ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 67th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Violeta Tomić and Gregor Židan. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, no Member or Member has announced for the day of the participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using a remote meeting application. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE WATER LAW, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Magi. Andre Visiak, Minister of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Water Act has been in force for about 19 years, and at that time there have been several reasons why we are coming with a relatively short amendment to this law, which eliminates in particular certain inconsistencies, including some overly liberal procedures, at the same time exacerbating possible actions on coastal land, contrary to some interpretations that this is exactly the opposite, and also allows the financing of the public service, maintenance and management of watercourses, from the Water Fund. So it's a relatively narrow set of changes that are important. Our original proposal - I also read the basic proposal today - added a proposal in the inter-departmental coordination to the possibility of building production facilities using hazardous substances in the water protection area, but later we agreed with the Ministry of Economy, and the coalition tabled an amendment to delete this Article 4 of the amended law, so it would not lose much of its say, because it will not actually be. I see that also the vast majority of Members of this opinion, that this is not part of the Water Act and that these additional possibilities of intervention on water protection land – which is achieved by political consensus – are not allowed. That is why we have agreed with Minister Restovalski and the Government has also agreed to the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to delete Article 4 or the amendment of Article 69 related to the expansion of the possibility of interventions to the premises also in the water protection area. I therefore believe that this has been an important step towards the profession which has warned, including non-governmental organisations in this area, as well as Members and Members who have tabled amendments or amendments. First, I would like to speak about the first and fundamental solution, these are attacks on coastal lands. With the new Water Act, we will reinvigorate the possibilities of intervention on coastal land. In Article 14, it is now possible to amend the coastal belt on the proposal of the space regulators, irrespective of the type of facility. According to homework, it is possible to build a private house, a private villa, or a private port on the coastal zone, provided that this is agreed by the holder of the regulation of the premises of the competent congregation and the Government. Now after the new one we're deleting, that's no longer possible. It is not possible to build on the coastal land of private buildings, but only objects of private use. However, objects of private use are intended for all of us, it is said, to use these facilities is possible for any of us. So now, after a new tightening, and, more importantly, the possibility of a political government ruling on this is deleted. This has been possible so far by a government regulation, but it is now possible with the expert opinion of the Water Directorate. Even so far, the Ministry and the Directorate have been key to the government's work, but the Government, when adopting the act, has also decided slightly differently, more broadly, and thus has made it possible for the Government to have any private interest. My question is, do you really want to continue to allow the construction of private buildings on coastal land? Do you happen to have any investors in your clientele? There are a total of 30 requirements for access to coastal land at the Water Agency. We've already approved 10 of them, and there's another 30 of them. So, honourable Members, take this text as it is written, not as interpreted by the media or some non-governmental organisations, a leading society that has clearly not read the regulation and interprets it in its own way. Please, let's read the regulation and vote on what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! At its 27th meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the proposal for a Law on Water Amendments and Supplements, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the proposer, the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mag. Andrej Vizjak pointed out that one of the substantive solutions to the proposal for a law is the possibility of reaching out to the area also on coastal and water land in the case of public use facilities under the Construction Law. At the time of the current legal regime, this was virtually impossible, although it was not a matter of water management facilities. The proposed solution therefore now allows for intervention on water and coastal land, provided that such intervention does not, inter alia, exacerbate water conditions, increase flood or erosion risks, do not run counter to water management objectives and do not limit the existing specific use of water. He further stressed that, within the current government's mandate, there has been a significant increase in resources for the maintenance and rehabilitation of many problematic watercourses with a view to preventing floods and similar unloved events. As a result, another important proposed amendment is to allow for the use of the Water Fund in addition to the State budget's integral resources for this purpose. A third key change concerns the possibility of installation or construction of facilities intended for production involving hazardous substances for which environmental protection regulations require environmental consent, as well as facilities and facilities for disposal of waste in the water protection area. In presenting their opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention in particular to Article 4 and the amendment to it. It pointed out that the proposed regime, which in principle prohibits the construction of a facility and a facility intended for the production of hazardous substances and of a waste disposal facility and facilities, complements, with the exception of which, without substantive criteria, the Government's act would be disputed in the light of the principle of the legality of the operation of the administration. The main purpose of the longer discussion was to amend to allow the construction of buildings and installations intended for production, including hazardous substances in water protection areas. The opposition Members referred to this provision as highly controversial and stressed that it is a matter of construction, which, under current legislation in the water protection area, is explicitly prohibited, in order to protect water bodies from pollution. In their view, the proposed provision will consequently significantly exacerbate the protection of water in the country, especially those intended for drinking water supply, and in the event of an accident in such a facility the constitutional right to drinking water will also be compromised. They also pointed out that the proposed provisions opposed environmental organisations and also the National Institute for Public Health. Minister for Environment and Space Mag. In this regard, Andrej Vizjak explained that it is not logical that the current legislation prohibits the placement of production activities in water protection areas which use hazardous substances in their working process in small quantities. On the other hand, such a ban already does not exist for service activities such as petrol services. At the same time, he rejected the evidence of a substantial weakening of the existing ban and stressed that many safety criteria would need to be met in order to accommodate this type of facility, including numerous analyses, such as the identification of which water protection area is concerned, what is the geology in that area, what is the technology of the production facility that is intended to be installed, and what are the potential risks and measures to prevent it. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u6	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The Water Directive of the European Union, in the first preambular paragraph, provides "water is not like other market products, but an inheritance to be protected, defended and treated as such". Those more conscious waters call blue gold, because water resources are limited, but on the one hand they are threatened by climate change on the other hand alone. Slovenia is one of the few countries with the right to drinking water enshrined in the Constitution. This is the first and fundamental step towards the commitment that we must work carefully, responsibly and respectfully with our waters, rivers, sea and drinking water. According to the LMŠ, today's amendment to the Water Act is unfortunately quite contrary to these values. Inadequate treatment of such an important subject matter has been demonstrated by the Government by the fact that public treatment of the law took place within 14 days, although it is a matter of substantial substantive changes to the law, that it violated Article 6 of the Aarhus Convention, which imposes effective public participation on countries and does not merely meet formal conditions. It is most inappropriate, however, that the government has already introduced an article in the legal text that would allow the construction of hazardous materials and facilities in the water protection area after a public hearing has been completed. In LMŠ, we have repeatedly strongly condemned the ignorance of the government and, of course, we were not the only ones in criticism. The introduction of such important changes without adequate and high-quality public hearings was critically assessed, among other things, by NGOs, the Ombudsman, the professional public and the Permanent Consultative Committee on Climate Policy with the President of the Republic. Despite all our warnings and warnings from the profession, the Minister of Environment and Space insisted on content at issue and defended it in the name of the economy to the end. The coalition Members, however, confirmed the above-mentioned disputed articles without doubt. In LMŠ we are sad that there are still individuals who do not show our waters enough respect, those who do not realize that we are lucky in Slovenia because we are endowed with natural water resources. We regret that decision makers who have a major impact on the state of Slovenian waters are easily unaware that 85% of our groundwater is intended to provide drinking water to households. We regret that this government has given the economy and capital priority to health care and clean drinking water by proposing and defending the disputed articles. In the LMŠ, we are aware of the importance of taking care of water and coastal areas as well as of the importance of water protection areas, so we have tabled an amendment to delete the controversial changes in our view. The first contested amendment allows the Government, by its act, to arbitrarily decide in which water protection area the construction and operation of installations involving or producing hazardous substances would be permitted. Another controversial change in water and coastal areas allows the construction of public-use buildings, as defined in the Construction Law. These include catering and shopping facilities, garage houses, hotels, service facilities and the like. We have been in the LMŠ Group and will always be a constructive interlocutor. However, we will always be advocates of the precautionary principle as a fundamental principle of European environmental policy. In case of doubt, the benefits of environmental protection must prevail over other interests, so today, a respected coalition, you have a correctional exam. It is not permissible for some individuals to literally play with our natural water resources, as water has no alternative.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable fellow Members and Members, the rest of you present, welcome! The Ministry of Environment and Space has embarked on changes to the Water Act quickly, recklessly and completely unprofessionally. The content of the law reflects the opinion and attitude of both the minister and the ruling. Instead of protecting natural property, in this case water, even more than before, you want to do the opposite, to destroy the already existing state of protection. Despite warning the general public how dangerous this law is to the natural resources necessary for the life of all organisms, you still insist on your beliefs. And to remind you, you are the ruling one who has prevented the adoption of a resolution in the National Assembly, by which Slovenia, as well as a number of other countries, would recognise that we are living in a time of climate-environmental crisis. The law is set out in the section Objectives: achieving good water conditions and others, water-related ecosystems, ensuring protection against water damage, maintaining and managing water quantities and promoting sustainable water use that enables different types of use, taking into account long-term protection of available water resources and their quality. In fact, the contents and solutions of this law are diametrically contrary. We even wrote the right to drinking water into the constitution. This is how we all like to boast, but what if the coalition doesn't know or wants to understand what it means to have a right in the constitution? It does not understand that the right to drinking water is inseparably linked to the maximum possible measure of protection of water resources. The last proposed amendment to the rulings withdrawing the most controversial article of the legislative proposal is evidence of the correct arguments of civil initiatives, professional associations and environmentally-aware policies. However, the amendment is not sincere, since it does not withdraw all disputed solutions. We have been alerting the social democrats to the issue of this law from the beginning and immediately opposed to breaking water protection. Such legislation, such as the Water Act, does not change in an accelerated manner without agreement with a professional and wider society. Despite an amendment withdrawing the most controversial article, the law still contains controversial solutions that are not acceptable to the Socialist Group of Members. We have listened to the section's warnings that the proposed changes to the law will affect the deterioration of flood safety, the quality of water resources and the level of ecosystem services. All policies should take into account the call of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy. I quote: "We believe that the proposal of the law destroys the professional foundations that we teach and communicate to the families of the incoming leaders, and we cannot therefore support it." Social Democrats do not therefore agree to reduce the protection of natural resources, and therefore we do not support such laws. But it must be very clear what a profession is. The profession that opposes this law, allow me to introduce at least a few of these professions. This is the University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, signed by Prof. Dr. Matjaž Mikoš. It is a professional water associations, this is the Slovenian Water Protection Society, where Dr Marjetka Levstek is president. It is the Society of Slovenian Committees of the International Association of Hydrogeologists, where the President is the extraordinary professor Dr. Mihael Brenčič. This is the Slovenian Association of Leaders, where Dr. Lidija Globevnik is president. And it's the Global Water Partnership, where the president is Dr. Barbara Chenchuur Curk. Respected and respected! Today, when we decide on the Water Act, we decide on the protection of natural resources, we decide on our future. So I ask you to think about it when you press the button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The current Water Act provides that the aim of water management is to achieve good water conditions and associated ecosystems, to provide water protection against water damage, to maintain and manage water quantities and to promote sustainable water use that allows their different uses, taking into account long-term protection, available water resources and their quality. Taking into account the fundamental principles of environmental protection, water management and water and coastal land, our water system is, inter alia, based on the principle of integrity, the principle of long-term protection, the quality and the prudent use of available water resources at the head of ensuring safety against the harmful operation of the water resulting from the needs for the safety of the population and their assets. Today's amendment allows for access to the premises also on coastal and water land, in the case of facilities in public use under the Construction Law. Whether or not the initiative stems from local environments and relates to the arrangements of a particular facility in public use, specifically in the case of lakes, rivers or other coastal land. The current legal regime makes this virtually impossible, although it is often not a matter of water management objects that would be disputed. Such a solution will only allow the intervention not to exacerbate water conditions, increase floods or erosion risks, do not run counter to water management objectives and do not limit the existing specific use of water. In order to assess the admissibility of such an intervention, the expert opinion of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water will have to be issued. However, in the Water Consensus, compensatory measures will also have to be laid down for the intended intervention. There's enough guards. According to our assessment, this measure still follows the fundamental objectives and principles of the existing Water Act. In view of the significant increase in resources for the maintenance and rehabilitation of many problematic watercourses with a view to preventing floods, it is possible to allocate the resources of the Water Fund for these purposes, in addition to the integral resources of the State budget, in cases where funding cannot be fully provided from other financial resources. In the SMC Group, we believe that water is a common value for all of us, which should not have a political smell, colour or taste. We also understand all the warnings that have been addressed in recent weeks within the framework of the envisaged solution that would allow for the construction of buildings intended for the production of which dangerous substances are also included. We have also therefore assessed that such solutions need to be reconsidered and tried to explain and justify them in the context of a broad public debate. Maybe it'll be time for another time. However, according to our assessment, in general, the proposed solutions are good. But politics must always weigh between economic and social development and nature conservation on the other hand. We estimate that none of these elements with the proposed amendments are significantly compromised, so we will support the amendment of the Water Act in the SMC Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Water is important for survival and therefore it is essential how it is defined and guaranteed access to it. In Slovenia we have written down the right to drinking water in the Constitution in 2016 and in article 70a this right is recognised as a human right. Unfortunately, however, the declaration of entry into the Constitution has not achieved the desired effects in spreading awareness of the importance of drinking water. And since water is an important economic asset, the idea that water would no longer be public is growing, but market goods is being warned by the Ombudsman in Slovenia. It therefore calls for the amendment of the Water Act and other environmental rules to be considered and sustainable, especially taking into account the profession and dialogue with all stakeholders, including civil associations. Otherwise, the supply of drinking water in the country will be threatened and we will move away from the recognized human right to clean water, as I said, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. In the initial proposal for amendments to the Water Act, the Government proposed an amendment that would allow for the construction of buildings and installations using or deposing hazardous substances in water protection areas. Such facilities and installations are currently prohibited in water protection areas. The government has proposed that such a regime be lifted and that the Minister of the Environment be allowed to decide by means of an act when the construction of hazardous facilities and landfills in water protection areas is allowed. In doing so, Minister Vizjak spoke about the economists who are being restricted by such legislation, and he again defended the interests of capital, the interests that are increasingly being shown to be detrimental to the environment and nature. However, the Minister did not say that Article 202 of the Water Act had also been adopted in the adoption of the Water Act, which provided that all facilities in the water protection area and where hazardous substances were used must be removed from the water protection areas. But it's a question of why these objects haven't been removed. The executive and the minister, as well as the former executive authorities and ministers, should comply with the applicable legislation, as set out in Article 202 of which I have mentioned it. It is the hypocrisy and duality of the ruling policy at the expense of nature and the environment. To the apparent threat of clean drinking water in Slovenia, the country immediately mobilised a critical public, both civil and professional, leading and professional professions and the entire parliamentary opposition. The pressure on the Minister for Water Protection, a minister who is committed in his mission to protecting the environment, unfortunately only then bore fruit. After a few weeks of pressure, the Ministry of Environment and Space has deviated from the most obvious possible assistance and service to the interests of the dirty industry. Since this disputed provision was another one in a series of legal subcontractors who have wanted to be enforced since the beginning of the government of Janša, we have tabled amendments in Levica to remove unacceptable interference in water protection areas. A year and a half ago in the campaign for alleged protection of the Ljubljana aquifer, or channel C0, the then SDS Member, today Foreign Minister Ange Logar, claimed that in a developed world and where a healthy farmer is concerned, it is also true that you do not place waste disposals and building facilities and facilities that use dangerous and toxic chemicals above the drinking water collection. Even though this article is now opposed by the government, it should be noted that there is yet another controversial provision in the Law on Water, which extends the possibility of intervention on water and coastal land, which is strongly opposed by the entire civil and professional public in Slovenia. The general use of water essentially means a water public good or public space that can be accessed by all, and the general public use includes first the right of access to drinking water for all. Seizures to coastal areas that can be carried out under this law can significantly reduce this public space. This is a wide range of objects whose construction is prohibited under the applicable law. The adoption of the content in Article 2 of the Proposal for a Law on Water Amendments and Supplements will allow for interventions that may have irreparable consequences on the state of surface waters in Slovenia. Amendments to Article 37 open the door for the privatisation of public space, so in Levica we propose that the water consent for interventions in coastal areas should not be granted in the event that these interventions restrict the general use of water. The law is controversial from the beginning to the end, so we will vote against its adoption in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u14	Thank you very much again, President. In Nova Slovenija, we are pleased to note that the current government's mandate has significantly increased its financial resources for the maintenance and rehabilitation of many problematic watercourses in order to prevent floods. From this point of view, it is particularly important to us that the proposed solution on the proposal for a Law on Water Amendments and Supplements is that, in addition to the integral resources of the State budget, the resources of the Water Fund can also be allocated, in cases where funding for these tasks cannot be fully provided from other financial resources. In Slovenia, flood damage has been extremely high in the last 20 years. It is estimated that the damage caused by the floods reaches a billion and a half euros. However, these damage would certainly be done by properly regulating watercourse streams, by significantly lower means, greatly softening or even preventing. Slovenia should spend at least EUR 25 million per year to maintain watercourses on a regular basis, and about EUR 12 million per year has been spent in the last decade for these purposes. This means that today we would need at least €120 million only to cover past insufficient funding in this area. It is a great shame that Slovenia loses capital by paying for damage caused by natural disasters if and where floods could be prevented by appropriate preventive measures. According to the proposal of the law, the competence to manage the procedures for changing the boundaries of coastal land from the Ministry of Environment and Space is transferred to the Slovenian Water Directorate, which will certainly allow for a faster resolution of the proposals or applications submitted. The amendment of the law also extends a set of arrangements which will potentially be allowed to interfere with coastal land, but the scope of verification of the conditions under the water consent procedure will remain the same. The bill also provides an opportunity to intervene in the area of coastal and water land in the case of objects in public and general use under the Construction Law. Many initiatives are coming mainly from local communities for the organisation and construction of buildings designed primarily for sports and tourism activities. Under current legislation, this has been virtually impossible so far, and the proposed solution now allows for access to water and coastal land, of course under strict conditions that such an intervention does not exacerbate water conditions, does not endanger public water supply, does not endanger water health, does not increase flood or erosion risks and does not limit the existing specific and general use of water. On the initiative of the Government, on the basis of numerous warnings from professional organisations and individuals, we have tabled an amendment proposing the deletion of Article 4 of the law, which would exceptionally make it possible to build buildings on the land of the sea for the production of which dangerous substances are also included and for which environmental protection rules require environmental agreement. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats agree that such an exception, despite the required safeguards, could endanger water resources, so today we will support this amendment. We will also support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u16	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Everyone has the right to drinking water. Since 2016 the first paragraph of Article 71a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been cited. Water is a natural resource, it is a source of life and for the customer the quality and protection of drinking water is extremely important. We are proud that the right to drinking water on our initiative has been raised to constitutional level. The amount of drinking water is limited, we're all aware of that. In view of the many efforts made to reclassify water from public to marketable goods, it was more than necessary for the right to drinking water to be defined as a human right. That is why we are particularly sensitive in the SAB when we are trying to intervene in the area of quality drinking water. First of all, I have to touch on the process of adopting the bill. Although this is an essential intervention in the content of the law, a reduced procedure has been proposed to deal with the legislative proposal, explaining that it is less difficult to change. We do not agree with this in the SAB. This is also reflected by a number of violent public responses to the proposed solutions. Even the most obvious is the fact that one of the two most controversial provisions was included in the legislative proposal only after a public debate had been held. The provision which received the most criticism provided that the Government, through a regulation, would be able to provide for exceptions on its own, which would allow for the construction and operation of production facilities and in the water protection area. It is also a matter of objects and devices that use dangerous substances and things, which could have a significant impact on the purity of drinking water. Such interventions are explicitly prohibited in the current legislation, as they can have a significant impact on the environment and the integrity of drinking water. Warnings regarding the disputed article by both the public and some of us here in the National Assembly have apparently landed on fertile ground. The coalition has proposed in this reading the deletion of the proposed solution, which is certainly welcome in the SAB. However, there is another provision in the proposal that raises concern and strongly opposes it. This is an amendment to Article 37 of the Water Act, which will allow the construction of public buildings in water and coastal areas in accordance with the Construction Law. This includes catering, business, administrative and other non-residential buildings where they are intended for public use. All of this is prohibited in the current law, as it can have a negative impact on water conditions. To date, only the necessary water infrastructure for water use is allowed. As a result, a wide range of facilities will be allowed to be built on land directly confined to water. Where this can lead, we see in the case of Lake Vrbski na Austria Koroškem, which is practically fenced and does not allow free access to the lake's coast. In the SAB, we are concerned that the changes we have on the table in the future will constitute major restrictions on water as public goods and water for drinking water supply. We therefore support the proposed amendments to prevent unacceptable interference in water protection areas. As initiators of the record of the right to drinking water in the Constitution, we strongly oppose any interference with existing legislation that poses a risk to ensuring the quality of drinking water. We are lucky in Slovenia because we are among the water richest countries in Europe and water is our competitive advantage. In our client, we will work hard to keep it that way. If we are to have clean water, drinking water in the future, we must strive to protect water resources. In the SAB Group of Members, we will certainly support the amendments that foresee the deletion of the disputed articles. However, we strongly oppose the bill in the form it is now on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the SNS Group. Excuse me, this is Ivan Hršak, Desus Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Water Act was passed in 2002 and in all this time there have been several reasons for certain solutions to be improved and corrected. The proposal for a novel provides for two substantive substantive changes. The first option is to intervene in the area also in coastal and water lands in the case of public buildings under the Construction Act. Another important component is that resources from the Water Fund can also be allocated to finance the economic public water management service. In the case of public buildings under the Buildings Act, in the case of alterations to space also in coastal and water land, let us note that the initiative to amend legislation came first from the local environment. What a few municipalities wanted to do at the lake, a river to make a cycling trip, a pedestrian, a boat or some other facility in public use, after all, an object for the service of guests, although there was no disputed intervention in the area of water management or increasing flood, erosion or water maintenance, or in any way making the water condition worse, was virtually impossible under the law in force. Moreover, there was and still there was a perimeter of the law in a way that narrowed the coastal belt by introducing an exception of 15 metres of the wide coastal band, which was in force under the Law on Waters for the Waters of the First Order, and in a way made an exception here and there. In our view, this novelty will regulate this area without the existing legislation being circumvented or even played in some cases. In the Desus Group, we absolutely welcome the fact that in the proposal of the novels there are precise conditions that the investor must meet if he wants to intervene in the area near the coastal and coastal zones. Thus, the water situation, flood or erosion risk must not be exacerbated, nor must it go against the conditions and restrictions for carrying out activities and interventions in areas threatened by floods and associated erosion inland waters and seas. At the same time, we expect that, due to clearer and simpler legislation, there will be an increase in the possibility of small economy development projects, particularly tourism, which have not been or have been very difficult to reach so far, and will be welcome in the post-pandemic recovery of the small economy and the economy in general. In the Desus Group, we also welcome the fact that resources from the Water Fund can also be used for the implementation of public economic services on water management, since, finally, there are funds for various water management. In the Desus Group, we believe that the novel proposal brings more good than bad solutions, so we will support or not oppose the novel proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dušan Šiško is next to present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u20	Nice greeting, President. Dear Minister! Non-governmental organisations are subject to a dispute in Article 37 of the Act, which allows for certain interventions on water and coastal land. In Article 37a, it will also be difficult to establish a boundary, a gap between an intervention contrary to the objectives of water management and an intervention which is not contrary to the objectives, but which requires measures to compensate for the impacts, as the SGEI also pointed out. With the amendment adopted, it will be possible in these areas, for example, to build parking lots, various buildings, transport buildings, and they fear that in the event of an accident this can quickly affect the water situation and its pollution. I ask you, colleagues, why the problem is if economic, social and other activities are developing along our lakes, rivers such as the Danube River in Serbia. The latter will also bring a number of new jobs, jobs that will be more than welcome after our epidemic. Apparently, the NGOs have also forgotten a number of safeguards that would prevent pollution from occurring. At the same time, they were critical of the fact that the law was being dealt with in short-term and much more. To many of us, healthy and clean water means much, especially to those who come out of the pipe, so we must treat it responsibly. Members of the SNS are well aware that the right to it must not be a dead letter on paper. Once again, we stress that the right to drinking water will be maintained, so that many of the findings of naturalists and some of the parties are unjustifiable. In view of the importance of material, we are told that the law has been amended and supplemented many times since 2002, when it was adopted. As we know, under the Waters Act without water consent or construction permit it is prohibited to interfere with the waterland or coastal zone, which is between five and fifteen metres away from the watercourse when we are talking about major Slovenian rivers or flood zones. There is also an environmental impact assessment scale, if some people here do not know it, so not everything is black and white as it seems on the first ball, and we also have several classes of water protection area. Perhaps some citizens and non-citizens still do not know that the protective embankments that protect against floods — concrete walls, socks, and the like — need to be given water consent. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia regularly informs and invites local communities, owners and tenants of coastal land along streams, in particular in settlements and villages, and in relation to agricultural land, to be treated with care and economy. This is especially true when the atmosphere is warmed and there is a possibility of greater precipitation and rising watersheds. Any disposal of waste, other disposed third-party items must be notified as a matter of urgency to the competent inspection service. By removing decaying vegetation, waste plant material undoubtedly contributes to the improvement of the water regime and water condition. Cleaning will reduce lateral erosion of the hills and the disposal of floods. I, too, live near the Krško hydroelectric power plant, have often observed that due to precipitation and storms in the entire Sava river basin, there is an increase in the amount of swimming carried by the Sava River, not only from Krske, but also from all of Slovenia. It seems important to us that the financial resources of the Water Fund can also be used for the implementation of public economic services for water management in cases where funding for these tasks cannot be fully provided from other financial resources. The law therefore gives us a legal basis, a framework for more and faster financing in the field of flood protection by European resources or resources. Dear President, thank you for not giving me time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Doblekar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister! Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure because it is less difficult to amend and supplement the law. The proposed law does not constitute major changes at systemic level. It complements and amends the provisions of the Water Fund in terms of the purpose of spending the funds of this existing fund. The proposed amendments will allow for additional funding from this fund also for public economic services, water regulation and the Water Institute. This is a particularly welcome solution because, in our view, it is sufficient to ignore the regulation of watercourses so far for such or other reasons. Above all, it is usually an excuse not to do anything because of the lack of financial resources. Due to a great deal of under-devotion to preventive measures in the maintenance and rehabilitation of watercourses, often the victims of wild water are people and their assets. Then how long is the struggle for compensation, if they ever get it, and we all know it. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are particularly surprised to see why, as soon as something finally tries to move and resolve for the benefit of the people, there are various such and different resistances, particularly the various NGOs that have so far been silent in the face of all the inconsistencies that the government has in law and wants to correct. The law also provides that interventions on water and coastal land will be arranged separately in two articles, due to a more systematic and transparent regime. In our view, the overall benefit of people, local communities and economies is also welcome to the change that the competence to manage procedures, to change the boundaries of coastal land is transferred from government to administrative level, by deciding on proposals under administrative procedures and no longer by adopting a government regulation. The new proposal will burden the government and thus allow a faster resolution of the proposals or applications submitted, which means that, in the light of the removal of administrative barriers, the excessively long-term procedures for the adoption of government regulations are being reduced or terminated so far, while at the same time the parties are also in a financial and time-consuming situation. In summary, the parties will be much faster and cheaper to resolve the requirements and will no longer have to wait unreasonablely long for consent. They will have no longer three organs, but only one - this is with the Water Directorate. In our view, it is also a welcome change to the substantive possibility of reaching out to the area on coastal water land in the case of facilities in public use under the Construction Law. Anyone who has ever dealt with municipal issues knows in what state coastal lanes are usually rivers, streams, lakes and how simple and useful solutions are proposed by local environments for a better appearance and a more orderly and useful environment. People are looking abroad at a completely different picture, and they're just wondering how nothing can be done with us. According to existing legislation on the coastal zone, it is virtually impossible to arrange sports, recreational facilities and surfaces, even though they are indisputable in water management. Interestingly, however, private buildings can be built indefinitely, bringing the new proposal closer. The economy's proposal for the construction of production facilities was also not bad and did not pose any threat to drinking water more than it is now threatened by such facilities, and therefore those who are so heavily concerned with water today were not exposed. The proposal has been withdrawn for the time being. We do not agree to be misled in public and in parliamentary benches to endanger drinking water and access to the water and water shores as good. In Slovenia, already 95% of people are supplied from public water pipelines, and this government is going in the direction that drinking water from public water pipelines will be available to all. Let me also recall that in our parliamentary group and the programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party, water supply and priority management, and the great concern that we always pay the highest attention to, should we be in the opposition or in the government coalition, unlike many who like the full mouth of words and writings into the constitution, while implementation in practice struggles little. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the coalition amendments and the law in its entirety, because we believe that these are difficult to expect to change for the good of people, local communities, administrative authorities, municipalities and ultimately also for the pure and unspoiled environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the Left Party and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI sent groups. Desire for a debate? I'm guessing it is. We're going to set up applications for the list of discussers. Applications are under way. The first one has the floor, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been elected to this House four times. I've heard a lot of things, but so many false claims about this law, as I've heard them today, I can't believe it's the same proposal. With Article 2, which amends Article 37, this proposal narrows down the possibility of intervention on coastal land. So far it has been possible, and no one has intervened in this, namely, Article 1 provides that paragraphs 6 and 7 of Article 14 may have been deleted by narrowing the coastline from 15 metres to zero. When there is nothing coastal, it is also possible to build private objects. Now, after this proposal, we are deleting this possibility that by narrowing the coastal belt it is possible to intervene in this coastal zone and allow only public use facilities on this coastal band, which means that we are narrowing down the possibility of interference to the coastal belt. But here I hear from the opposition how we will open the possibility of further interference in the coastal belt. On the contrary. We narrow down, it is no longer possible to build private buildings to water, so I stress private buildings that are not in public use. It's called apartment houses, villas and the like. I hear the opposite here. I really don't understand this, and I ask you, honourable Members, when we are discussing this amendment now, to show me exactly what provisions of this law it is possible to do so. And that. It is possible to build public works under the following conditions. First, and most importantly, what has not been highlighted today is that it provides for a spatially executed act of the congregation. For it is not possible to build on the coastal area if the congregation disagrees with this and if it fails to carry out procedures, from public disclosure, from all possible interventions, from all possible opinionators to reach this possibility at all. That's the first condition. This is said to allow the municipality in a spatially executed act, the OPN or the OPPPN to do so. Because construction is not possible, according to the Water Act, at home. Secondly, it is not possible to build these facilities if they are a threat to flood-related, erosion-safety, if the water condition deteriorates, if this is contrary to the water management objectives and so on. In short, the type of fuses that have been so far is that there are not some, as I would say, harmful effects of this facility of public use on water in the widest sense. So we are narrowing down the possibility of putting objects in the coastal zone from all objects, which is allowed today by Article 14 of the Water Act, by deleting paragraphs 6 and 7 of this waste, and this is limited to objects of public use. Please let me understand that. Then I hear we're restricting access to water. On what basis is this article? Please say it nicely! Free access to water is provided for in Article 38 of the Water Act, which states that the coastal owner must not restrict access to water to anyone. We don't interfere with this article at all. This Article shall remain in force. I would ask that all those who are critical of attacking, at least read this proposal, tell me concretely, by which provision we prevent this or in whatever way we make the matter worse. On the contrary! The current law allows the construction of private buildings to water by reviving the coastal belt to zero. And probably, if it's an apartment, it's probably a really difficult access to water. Now we're deleting it, and that's not possible anymore. Please read and then comment. Not in mind, just for the sake of the record, because you are opposed to government proposals to oppose this proposal, which is well-intentioned and comes from the bottom up. This proposal comes from local environments because they want to build some sport park with water for the purposes of people, children, recreation, and better citizens. So much for the intervention under this amendment, which proposes deleting this third indent, because I think it is useful for a wider range of people, for our citizens, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, first of all, it is only a response to your claim that things must be built in these coastal belts in accordance with municipal spatial documents. I would like to tell you, when we had an open discussion about the flood measures in Medlog, Celje, which are being built, I specifically told you where these public funds are building against municipal spatial documents, but this is carried out by the Directorate for the Waters of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the body within your ministry when you file and when you refer to these matters. I specifically told you where, and I also wrote to you by the tenants and entrepreneurs in this area who said that they were not legally protected here. Secondly, I would like to say this, when Mr Doblekar is earlier – I must say this because it is related to this, immediately after this amendment to Article 2 – I will say that it has been silent so far that the professional public, civil society, NGOs representing public interest in the area of spatial and environmental protection have all remained silent, but they have reported on the current changes to the Water Act that we are considering today. It is true that when the expert, the civil public gave the opposition an amendment, the concerns, there were also changes to the Water Act mentioned earlier by Minister Vizjak. I would like to tell you that there is no silence between NGOs when it comes to Anhovo, when it comes to power plants on the lower or mid-Savi, when it comes to co-incineration in TES, when it comes to Celje, which is highly ecologically polluted, when it comes to channel C0, where it is also engaged in Ljubljana by the party of the Minister for Environment and Space, the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is absolutely nothing wrong and is right if it is in the interest of water protection. As for the amendment to Article 2, which was tabled by the Left, I would say this. During the Committee's hearing, an amendment was adopted to the Coalition's amendment to the list of facilities which are allowed to be built on water grounds and also to add public use facilities under the Construction Act. Mr Minister, facilities in public use mean objects or parts of buildings whose use is provided under the same conditions as you said well. But these are non-residential buildings, guest buildings, business, administrative buildings, shops, service buildings, transport buildings, communication buildings, ritual buildings. In short, huge buildings for public use are not private buildings. However, we have warned that if this is accepted, this will be allowed in the coastal area, above the waters - it will build up above the water and place an object above the water - and there will be accidents in these facilities, pollution and destruction of water resources will occur. And that's what pollution is all about. Look, when you look at me like that, if kerosene poured into the water resources a while ago, into the groundwater of the coast and Crassus, we don't know where it is, when this kerosene will come through the drinking water, this water will be practically useless. For how long, no one knows. Even more, she'll be deadly. This is the logic of the amendment that we proposed in Levica. See, in this way we say that the source we are dealing with in Slovenia is at risk. We are probably one of the first in the world to still have clean, clean drinking water, the water to which access is granted to every citizen under article 70a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, we have proposed that this issue be deleted in the left hand side of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u28	Just for a little while. I must, of course, deny the untruths spoken by the honourable Member. Firstly, it is not true that the Water Directorate in Celje is in any way interfering with regulations and permits issued. That's not true, that's not true. It's your opinion, your point of view, which you keep repeating here, but it doesn't. That is why we also have competent services in the country that identify this. And it's not a matter of political discussion between us, it's a matter of professional competent services. That's one thing. The second thing, from the five veins, you tried to list some objects that might be controversial and why this provision might be controversial. You have forgotten, for example, children’s playgrounds, sports parks, and so forth, what congregations want to build, boats, which they want to build on the watercourses on the coastal land. And you've forgotten that because that's what the proposals are. I have not yet seen any proposal for the municipality to place certain dangerous objects in the coastal zone in a spatial implementation act. I've never seen that before. Because it's a filter that doesn't come to that. And once again, all of this today, what you're saying is that you want to prevent it, is allowed. It is allowed through a government regulation that narrows the coastal belt to nothing. We are now preventing this from happening that private facilities cannot be in spite of the government's decision. But only the professional criteria checked by the Water Directorate on the basis of a special laboratory submitted by the investor must be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u29	Thank you very much. My friend Brickler, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u30	Mr. Secretary, you're right. Thank you very much. You should have listed everything, that's right. These facilities also include public areas such as public roads, streets, squares, playgrounds, parking lots, graveyards, parks, greenery, recreational areas; I could count all of this, yes. As far as Medloga is concerned, I would like to tell you in concrete terms. I told you the last time, but you're just telling me, you've answered me the last time, so far you've done nothing to stop this from happening. There is a very long canal on the Ingrad Gramat, which is not in any spatial document. The drier part of Savinja up towards Ljubljana Road is deepening – people know where it is, but I will say – where the water of Savinja to commercial companies and residential houses, the Montessori kindergarten, which is located in this part of Celje, is practically possible. Look, I've told you this many times before, and you're just saying that I'm talking to you in the middle of nowhere, so don't go check it out. This is the work of your ministry. The Water Directorate does this, but it's an organ within your ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Otherwise, it wasn't a replica of the rules of procedure. Mag. Dean Jedhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u32	Thank you, President, for your word. Once again, Mr. Secretary, hello! Not to be misunderstood here, I'm not attacking you like a man. I also listen very carefully to what you say, as well as the materials you sent to the National Assembly, I have read. I also say I'm not a water expert myself. I'm a naturalist, I'm not an expert, so I'm just reading and finally deciding which opinion is more important to me, because I'm trying to look at what someone wrote and what history has in this area. That's the first one. Don't be afraid of me. I don't mean you any harm. It's the other way around. It is unacceptable to me that you want to silence us, that all we say is some hidden background behind ten hills and fifteen oceans. I mean, I'm talking, at least, based on this material that I got in front of me. You state your facts, which I respect. I also respect all the agreements on the parliamentary questions that I will send and answer, and I always thank you publicly. I don't know if you've noticed that, but I always do, and I also tell you which ones I'm happy with, if I'm not with, I write that, too, but always very polite. When we talk about this article, you can put professional associations in vain. This is your attitude towards this world, this country, this society. I can't change it, I don't want to change it either, there's no reason to change you, but I simply don't agree that you're giving in to any civil initiatives that have often shown in Slovenia how they are in fact in some way visionary, that what they're alerting at this point in time turns out to be right. And it also pains me so much that you're putting all these professional associations to nothing. When I spoke about the position of the Group of Members, I made it clear on the basis of which letters were based on this position. I even read the names of five doctors of science, but I suppose they know something about water, because at least most of them work their whole lives in this area. Someone can nod in this direction or in any other direction, but then we must say that Slovenian science, the Slovenian profession means nothing but politics. That's not true. Since time allows me to do so, I will read again what people have written that are significantly more competent than I am, which I suppose they know what they are writing, and because I suppose they are aware by their signature that they do not want to jeopardize their reputation in this area. This letter I have, at least you probably all have, but it needs to be read, is a letter we received from the University of Ljubljana on 25 March, the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, signed by Dean Matjaž Mikoš. I'm going to read it because it speaks exactly of what you, Mr. Secretary, have been talking about. “2. Article 37 of the bill amending Article 37 of the current law extends the possibility of intervention on water and coastal land and in the area of silencing lakes and allows the construction of public buildings under the Construction Law. This change increases the possibility of building sites with an important ecosystem role (water protection, water treatment, water supply, biodiversity, etc.) and represents a habitat for many plant and animal species. At the same time, such interventions interrupt links in nature (basic flows, migration routes), prevent free access to water and regular maintenance, thus reducing ecosystem services on which we are all dependent. Construction of buildings near watercourses also increases the company's vulnerability to flood damage and, as a result, brings potential additional costs to the company for the construction of flood measures and is not in the spirit of strengthening the company's resilience to dangerous natural phenomena. The expected effects of climate change (often extreme weather events) should follow the precautionary principle and consequently maintain and even expand existing coastal land. We must give the water its place, or it will be taken by itself, but at the same time to the detriment of society. ” [[…]] He writes even more, then all four professional associations, and then I have a lot of material here that they sent. But what do I have to say to you, Mr. Secretary? In fact, I don't believe that the Slovenian profession is malicious. The Slovenian profession would like to talk very clearly about this subject with you, at least in a few letters, asking you to let us talk, not accept what we think is harmful. We can't accept that. Let's talk and move on. That's what the Slovenian profession says. It is quite possible, but it is not very likely that the entire Slovenian profession is wrong, and that you are right. Maybe you're wrong, but the profession is right. I am not skilled enough in this area to be able to judge, but I am trying to appreciate the Slovenian profession. That is why this observation is so important, because the basis I understand, the additional money through the Water Fund is devoted to useful things, I support and you yourself have said why this is important. What you're saying is something came up from the economic ministry, a crazy fly, you're the government all together, and at the end of the day you're the marriage holder, it's not the economic minister, and that SMC should keep saying that, and then it goes to some other party. You are the bearer of the marriage, and you have accepted it as a draft by the Government. That's why you're sitting here with us today. But the obvious that besides what you wanted, then there's something else in there, it's here. The timer is known. We can read your time book. Timetable in the field of law, which is intended for the protection of Slovenian waters. That's why it's my call, and I'm going to put the emotional debate down again. Do what was your original goal, relax the use of the money you obviously have available in the Water Fund for some other necessary things to settle. I understand that and I support it. The rest is professional and the work of politics on this side of NGOs, let us withdraw today. I promise you, if you come up with a proposal next time, where the signature of this dean professor will also be given to those who are water experts, and they will say that this is in line with the competent minister and the ministry, I will now tell you that I will vote in favour of your law. I also commend you when it is necessary, as I have commended you, if you remember, years and years ago, when you were able to agree with the social partners for legislation that affected pensions. You were sitting there now, and you had some associates around you, and I commended you on this side because you did it then. The Social Democrats' proposal and, I understand, the opposition is not malicious either. Today, let us accept what is necessary, withdraw everything that is at issue, and agree on what is at issue, and then accept again. Thanks for your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u34	Dear Member, you said: “I am not skilled enough and therefore I trust professional opinions.” That's not true. You're smart enough, you're an MP, you've been a minister, you can read three articles. I'm 100 percent that you're smart enough. You started quoting a college opinion that read only one article but did not read Article 1 and read Article 2 but did not read Article 1. And Article 1 of this proposal states that they shall be deleted in Article 14 sixth and seventh paragraphs. You didn't mention that. Article 14, paragraphs 6 and 7, allow the government to narrow the coastal belt to zero and allow all that the FGG attacks, which attacks the faculty in this professional opinion. It's okay with all of this. However, that is the decision of the political body, that is the government. We are now narrowing this down in article 37 by adding one indent, because in article 14 it is open to a wide range of facilities, and in 37 we are narrowing them down only to public use facilities, which means that we are not expanding, but we are narrowing down the possibility of intervention on coastal land. I am sure that in the following, in my public response to all the letters of society, I listened to Mrs Globevnik, I am a hundred percent that she did not read it, because if she read it, I would not have said it to the media yesterday, because it is simply not what she was saying. Just as it is not true what is said in this opinion, since respected gentlemen have not read the whole law. Many times more articles need to be read, not just one, and it turns out that this is not the case. I'm talking to you here because I know you're so capable, capable and skilled when you say you're not, that in combination with these two articles, because it's not a problem to finish, you're sticking to my position. You can, if you want to, if you're honest, you can attach it because it's very simple, the more simple it can be. And once again, let me underline. In the Water Act, this Article 2 narrows down the possibility of intervention to coastal land, since it is possible to extend it to private buildings under conditions that remain the same, to build only public buildings, and so far it has been possible to extend it to private buildings by means of an act of government, not to say what villas at sea, what villas along rivers and lakes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u35	Replica, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u36	I'm not really an expert in water, I can read articles, but I know there's a lot of material in the back. But I do not agree with the fact that the respected experts, the five doctors of science, this short law that you have prepared, have bent halfway down, so that only one controversial article can be seen, and only this controversial article can be read, and all the rest will be overlooked. And please, Mr. Minister, have some respect for these people. These people signed their name, title, and surname. Do you think it would be the doctors of science and professors if they were working in a way that would cover up, cover up, and then read only what they might or might not like. I am sorry that I must now protect the Slovenian profession from the right side. Look, our advantage because of our smallness is to be professional and even more professional. And that defends itself every step of the way. Not that we're making a fool of them in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u38	Thank you, President, for your word. In accordance with some parliamentary practice, I will discuss this article a little wider. However, the fact is that the Minister has also debated wider in his implementation. He also spoke of Article 14, which is not the subject of this amendment. Here's what I'm gonna do. This law was publicized for 14 days. 14 days for such an important marriage that requires a broader social consensus. After this public hearing was concluded, one article was added, which is now being deleted by virtually all parties with amendments. However, the fact that the coalition on the parental committee confirmed this disputed article. There's one more thing that bothers me. We are dealing with this law by means of a reduced procedure in this National Assembly. Shortening the procedure, we know that it is intended for less difficult amendments to laws, but we are not talking about changes in terms of the number of articles that are changing. Here I agree, given the number of articles, this law is less demanding. But we're talking about content. However, the content is, at least in my opinion, very important. I'm kind of afraid there's an agenda behind here. I'll explain. One of the PKP's laws contains a provision that in some ways restricts the functioning of NGOs, exacerbates the conditions, as we all know what I am talking about. Then we have a second phase here, a public hearing for 14 days, disregarding virtually no comments from the profession. And then we have this third phase, which tells us that in public treatment now there is also a change to the law on environmental protection. In one of these articles, a new change is made or a new sentence is added that all employers involved in the issue of the building permit cannot give a negative opinion, but can only give confirmation or a proposal for corrections. And that's what I'm worried about. Here's where I'm going with this general work. I will respond to the Minister's statement when he said that this law tightens the conditions for construction on coastal belts and referred to Article 14 of the existing law, where this amendment withdraws the sixth paragraph of this article, which speaks of the fact that the government can narrow the coastal belt. And that's true. This article is being withdrawn. But what Mr Minister forgot to say is that under the existing law, the government has the right to narrow the coastal belt only in cases where it is an attack on existing building land within the existing settlement. So this option is very limited to the government and it's not quite arbitrary. The Ministry now withdraws this provision and adds a new one to allow the construction of public-use facilities. Of course, it is necessary to be correct and to say that public use facilities are also pedestrians, cycling routes, walking paths. And that's not an issue. Nor do these interventions contaminate or potentially pose a risk to increased pollution of groundwater or groundwater. But if we read an entire article about public use facilities, we see that there are also parking houses in here, there are hotels, there are no restaurants, and if you had any intention, when you mentioned earlier, Mr. Minister, to build a cycling path by the lake, along the river, let's do it, but write it down. [[…]] Do not extend this provision to practically all facilities in public use. It's not okay. My predecessor mentioned the opinion of the professional public. I must say, when we received this proposal in the National Assembly, the government mentioned in one part that the comments were made by the professional public and they were demented in five lines, without arguments. And that's not okay. This is not ok in terms of the Aarhus Convention, which says that it is necessary to allow the profession to cooperate not in a formal way, but in a real way. And at least what it is, they deserve their proposals to be rejected in a reasoned manner. Mr Židan had previously read one part of this letter from the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, and I will read only one piece of it, which the predecessor did not mention, and I think is just as important. With this letter from the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana, the institution which educates experts in the field of construction, construction, spatial planning, leadership and environmental engineering invites the National Assembly to reject this novelty. This is an institution that educates practically all experts in this field and they call us to refuse. And then, the submission of amendments and the subsequent withdrawal of individual articles indicate the professional ineligibleness of the proposed amendments to the law. And then there's an indication, and I think it's reasoned. At the very least, they propose that a broad professional debate be held on this important topic. Not for 14 days, but not for the way the articles were added later because someone remembered it. At least I don't think that's the way. And this is where I'm gonna end up. I will also mention that we have proposed an amendment to the LMSH, which, in our view, is in conflict with Article 2, we are withdrawing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u39	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u40	Dear Member, perhaps just one brief answer. See, in the framework of public use facilities you listed some that are fine according to yours, which belong in this part, and some which, in your opinion, do not belong in this part. I think it's just like talking about objects that belong in this part and those that don't belong in this part, based on what they're called, I don't know if it's a restaurant or if it's, I don't know, a sports court, it's not enough. It is certainly necessary to see in advance whether this facility at all, in accordance with the spatial implementing act, belongs to this particular space. It is necessary to assess whether this concrete intervention improves flood security, erosion security, or can affect water status, or can affect the achievement of the objectives set out in the water management plan. In short, it is a series of substantive definitions for this specific project. In particular, a sports park may have negative consequences, perhaps a coffee shop or a guest terrace, but not one. Therefore, this is left to the profession through the water opinion. The water opinion shall be made by an expert on the basis of a prepared laboratory for concrete watercourse, for a concrete object and on the basis of this and these criteria shall be determined whether or not. Therefore, we leave the matter open to all facilities of public use, which are, of course, filtered, for the first time, through the municipality, which determines what can be built there in accordance with the space-implementation act, and, secondly, the Water Directorate. But if we start to list objects in there, we're going to release one and then we're going to complete it another time, or we're going to see that we've written one too much. Thus, in accordance with the Construction Act, this is limited to facilities of public use.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I only wrote it down for this reason, Minister, because when you presented this article, you mentioned footpaths, cycling paths and so on. If you were to mention hotels, I believe you didn't accidentally let them go, but if you were to tell us all about them, I don't have a problem, but when you only mentioned these, I'd say environmentally friendly or more friendly interventions, then let's define them. I understand, however, that the intensities along the footpath, along the cycling routes, including the construction of some hotels, inns, parking lots, that this dictatorship of the Construction Law covers everything. But I miss it now that you have attacked us so much that we acknowledge that you are spreading possible interventions, I now miss your answer to this statement that in my opinion you are actually doing this legislation more loosely and not more harshly than you are saying in connection with this article 14 and the possibility of narrowing this coastal zone by the government, because they are very strict conditions and very limitedly you can do it, but under the new law you will be able to practically arbitrarily do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u44	This, honourable Member, holds all that you say to spread. Even when you have read the first indent of Article 14, paragraph 6, to deal with objects in accordance with the space-implementation act in the context of settlements, it is said there. There can be no action if it is not in accordance with the space-executive act. Most of the proposals are within the settlements. I have now received these roles, which are on the Water Directorate and are mainly housing and are mainly for economic operators within settlements. Most intentions are within the settlements. And now this is no longer allowed in private. However, public use is permitted everywhere if the professional filters that I've counted are stopped today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u46	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, it is difficult to resist the temptation not to bring into the National Assembly again and again any law that rises to the feet of all Slovenia. I don't think that would be necessary. Otherwise, on the basis of this basic intention of amending the law, which increases the means of flood safety, to regulate watercourses, stormwaters, I absolutely welcome this. Already in the government of Marjana Šarca, the Ministry of Environment and Space has adopted the amendment of the Water Act in this direction – I do not know if you remember last March – and expanded the use of funds to this end, now your proposal goes even further here, which is certainly commendable. I hope that this will be known as soon as possible in practice. I myself come from Zagorje Municipality, where we are greatly exposed to the dangers of floods of water flowing through the city, and for many years we have and still fight the battle that this country arranges for at least regular cleaning. We also went so far as to actually go by ourselves, if I say domestically, into this grab and clean it up several times, because the country didn't care, but they warned us that we were breaking the law, but we ended a lot of inconvenience in doing so. Not to mention the extreme danger of windwater. If this moves now for the better, of course, it will be so much better. This envisaged withdrawal of the construction of buildings with hazardous substances involved in water protection areas is not a major achievement to be praised now. This should simply not appear as an idea at all. It's not like an idea. It's just that someone would write it down in a marriage. That the Minister of Economics had this in mind, and you, Minister, if I've just caught your answer on television recently, you've personally estimated that this does not pose any greater danger. You personally assessed this and also strongly advocated this solution, as long as it did not prevail in the part of the coalition in order to remove it from the law. Next, you threaten, then you retreat mercifully, and you've actually stepped into a dam of healthy drinking water. Understand if you have to, but well, it may also be a clever intrigue to make it easier to get past what we are discussing today. And I really don't know if we're narrowing down here now, whether we're really narrowing down the possibility of interference to coastal land or, on the other hand, there's something else back here. But if I now listen to all the Slovenian profession, not the Minister for Environment and Space, which is a policy, and not the SDS Group, but all the professions in Slovenia, all environmental organisations and everyone else know, they are very much opposed to your solution. And now here we're talking or narrowing down or not, what we can build. Is it really just some bike paths, some pedestrians, boats? Is that really all this is about? Or, for example, the operations that were a few years ago on Lake Jasna, in Kranjska Gora, we all know him, some wooden piers and some wooden tower, none of the environmentalists, at least I didn't notice, jumped into the air at the core of that attack on the shore of Lake Jasna. On the other hand, this intervention has really attracted a significant number of people to this area. Is that really all this is about? Is it really about hotels, after all? Is it right to fear that perhaps people who like to go to the shores of our lakes on the banks of our rivers will not have access to any piece of Lake Bled or Lake Bohinj? I don't know if it's gonna happen or not. You can nod me, Minister, but you haven't convinced the profession, you haven't convinced the environmentalists, you haven't convinced the Slovenian public. I don't know why we should argue when it's actually so easy to save. Simply in such a case, I would surely do it, withdraw this article and go into some kind of debate, because it doesn't burn the water. We're talking about water, but don't burn the water. Why don't we clear this up in some broad debate. Look, even if you accept this now, people still won't support it because they don't know what's really going to happen. Politics will only support it with that voice more if it does. I believe that sometimes this Parliament needs to hear a voice from outside. And if that voice from the outside is so loud that I don't say it out loud, then you have to pull yourself back and say, ups, well, maybe we're in a hurry, let's go again and get some normal solution. And if this normal solution ultimately speaks of boats and footpaths and such interventions, I doubt that it will come up with any resistance. Now you say you're going to the local communities. I believe that in local communities there are desires for certain interventions, not exactly after the construction of hotels. But after all the procedures you're talking about, yes. But things aren't cleared up. But we're talking about hotels or we're talking about boats, that's a big difference. That's a big difference. Whether we are talking about people not having access to shores or shores or having access to them. That's a big difference, too. We simply proposed the deletion of this in the List of Marjan Šarc. The smartest solution, we reset and go again, and we clear it with expertise and with the Slovenian public. We are sensitive, very sensitive to water in Slovenia. And that's right. Minister, speaking of which, I'm gonna take advantage of this when you say you're going to the local communities. Where can we go now, as far as healthy drinking water is concerned, to the local communities? I believe you know about this problem. This problem is not from today, not yesterday. For too long, we have placed it on the congregation’s shoulders and its congregations are no match for it. The country will have to help sooner than later. But I'm talking about plumbing. I don't know if this information is completely refracted, that about 100,000 people in Slovenia are exposed to challenged water in water lines. This is the water where the E. coli bacteria are and who knows what else. But I'm talking about, I'm going to put it simply, so-called village plumbing, plumbing that people haven't long ago, or even long ago, they build themselves, they manage themselves, even though it's public plumbing. And the congregations have a responsibility to solve this problem. However, the fact is that there has been a long-standing clean status quo in this area, since it is easy to agree with the administrators of these, to put it simply, that the village’s conductors of the congregation cannot agree. Of course, interest is first of all money. If we went into public administration, water would have to be paid in those areas, which is no longer a practice. Above all, there is a problem with monitoring on these pipelines. And on these water lines, drinking water is very difficult in many cases. From my own experience, the congregations themselves are not partial. The state will have to cut down here somehow because it happens that the inspector finds that the water is in an area where the municipality has no access at all, it is inconvenient, and the punishment comes to the congregation. The state treats this as a public water supply, but it's not really a public water supply. I've put this here on purpose because we're actually talking about healthy drinking water from the base. Here you have the opportunity to really face local communities, people who in many cases do not even realize the danger of this water they are drinking, which they are using, because in many cases there is no monitoring of this water. I think you'll do more good if you deal with this problem than you do now in this rush of joy and passion to fight with Slovenians about boats and who else is supposed to grow along the banks of rivers and lakes. I suggest that you too support that this article is deleted, that we take a few breaths together in the country, drink a glass of water and go again to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u48	Dear Member, yes, you have somewhat expanded the subject to the co-financing of plumbing. Yeah, that's what we're planning. In the recovery and resistance plan, we also plan a considerable amount of resources to help municipalities co-finance water resources, especially where there is no economy, for remote places where fewer people are or are more widely displaced in the sense that they are far from each other. Yes, we will help here because we think this is right and this is also the implementation of the constitutional provision of the right to healthy drinking water. We plan the same for the Slovenian coast. The water source, which raises a lot of dust before any project is even done, what we will do, is already all the different estimates, how much this will affect the Scottish caves, the microclimate and the like. Of course, environmental impacts are assessed after an idea project is made. When you know what you're going to do, you can judge it. So it's a little early to talk about it. Yeah, that's what we're thinking, and that's what we're gonna do. Now, just for a short while, here I see that they are deciding in this Parliament, the FGG, the Faculty of Construction, and NGOs. No, honourable Members, it's your call. However, you must decide whether to read the bill or to read a single opinion. I am very disappointed because some of these expert opinions speak about the denial of access to water, which is essentially being upgraded by this proposal. More access is based on this proposal, such as the existing state, with all the arguments I have already made several times today, I can repeat them again. And you say it again, I don't know, I don't know what it is, the minister speaks one thing, the profession or these professional institutes of another, and I don't know what it is. Dear Member, read the proposal, create your own opinion, and I think it will be best because I know that you are all together with your professional services that you are capable of, capable of and that you know how to do it and now you are looking more or less way out, how not to do it. These proposals for intervention in coastal lands come only from local communities, not individually, but to some Vizjak, I don't know, the Ministry won't build anything. [[…]] These are initiatives from local communities where this is consistent with their views. Even in your immediate vicinity. The municipality of Trbovlje has made an application for a reduction of the coastal band in a longer area because it plans certain activities there. So it's public use, it's interference in the interest of the congregation, even if it's some kind of place or whatever it is that's meant for all people. But once again, the key is the congregation that makes the proposal, because someone else can't make it at all. The municipality must also have this in a space-implementation act. In short, it must give consent that a certain activity can take place there along the water. He can't and can't. It is not possible to obtain a building permit, irrespective of the consent or opinion of the Water Directorate, if the construction is not in conformity with the space-implementation act. It can't move and it can't, it's illegal construction. So there are a lot of these guards that will not be abused, that something not in the public interest will not be built. I don't really understand these fears and these concerns, and I don't see because there's still a Water Directorate here to have interventions that would in any way endanger the good water situation or undermine the adoption of a water management plan in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, buddy Bear. A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u50	Mr Minister, I have read this law, but I have not seen in these responses to the public only the responses of the FDV that you so like in this government, in your client you refer to as something negative, in fact with a negative, debilitating sound, but also some kind of nerve, environmentalist, innkeeper, as you used to call environmentalists. In fact, when a large part of the Slovenian public is activated, regardless of whether I read this law well or badly, it is normal to communicate with the public. What you are convincing us here, you and the Slovenian public obviously did not communicate well. We don't have to explain this to the public, you suggest. Communicate, don't worry, we already know what the law dictates, what the basic text of this law says and what is changing. But when some spark in the public is set on fire like this article 37, I, too, take a step back, and in this case I cannot support it because it is extremely bad or in no way communicated with the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Years ago, when I was driving around the Vrb Lake in Austria and wanted to stop by the lake, drink a bottle of water and eat a sandwich, I couldn't do that. You can't possibly get to Vrbsko Lake except for the parking lot at the restaurant and where the piers and docked boats are. And that's a small part of the Vrb Lake. Everything else is built on private approaches. These are usually villas that stand by the lake, have their own garden and access directly to the lake and cannot be accessed by the public. This is not the case in Slovenia, and I believe that this will never happen, that not everyone could go to Lake Bohinj or Lake Blej or to the coast and enjoy this natural heritage of our beautiful country. Even when you travel around the world, whether it is narrower, European countries or longer, you will see when you drink the water there, that you cannot actually outrun Slovenian waters. That is why I think this water law is so important. Thank you, Minister, for listening to both the professions and civil society and the public in the drafting of this law. And especially because you have listened to the special protection of the water protection area and corrected and regulated the law so that it is now acceptable. Let me stress that this is a particularly important chapter for us Ljubljanans, because we fear that at any time our beautiful drinking water will be contaminated. There's an area under Sava that's big for even Lake Bohinj, and that's our drinking water. Ljubljana receives drinking water from two sources, from Kljek, next to Savi, while the other part is close to Iga. Both coverages, especially in the Sava area, are water coveres, which have excellent drinking water. I would like to say that we want to continue to maintain this water protection area. I think that this law is now written in such a way that it is possible and I wish that no channel C0 that could contaminate the groundwater could ever do so. Minister, I hope you will continue your dialogue with civil society and the professional public. But I want all of us to read the material thoroughly. It's not the first time we've faced this space talking about it without reading what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Is there any other wish? We're at Article 2, by the way. If there is any desire for Article 4, you may wait until then. I'm narrowing down the list. Applications are under way. The first one has the word Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u54	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. Now the hypocrisy we hear on one side of the coalition species, while at the same time the provisions of this law, reminds me very much of another story involving the SDS. When the fire broke out in Kemis on Vrhnika and there we faced a natural disaster due to the fire in an industrial facility, which occurred when the same SDS, in its first mandate between 2004 and 2008, lowered fire safety standards, was the same SDS when it burned in this facility due to lower fire safety standards, the first to jump around and appear as a green party and feared this disaster and then criticised Cerar's government for not taking action. We are now hearing that Slovenian water cannot be overrun, that it will not be possible, in any way, to enjoy the natural features of our beautiful homeland, that it is unheard of to build any channel of C0 through the water protection area, etc. At the same time, the same party is proposing a law whose basic solution, which was removed only after severe pressure from the public, professions, opposition and all those who are still thinking with their heads in that country, has been removed. The basic solution to this law was to enable the construction of buildings in watertight areas, including those used in their production of hazardous substances. Today we are hearing about channel C0, and before us we have a law that has a basic solution to legalize construction in water protection areas. How's it going with these two? Today, we listen to how we will continue to enjoy the natural attributes of our beautiful homeland. At the same time, it is still in this law that it is easier to build on coastal belts. I don't know how you can sell a discriminating or rhetorical one story, but you're doing something completely different. I really don't get it. If you have previously looked at your e-mail addresses, you will see that there are 37 pages of signatories gathered by the Eco Circle, inside are gathered virtually all relevant water protection experts, inside there are gathered all relevant environmentalists in the field of environmental protection, warning that the consequences of this law will be exactly what you say you are protecting. That water protection areas will shrink, that water in Slovenia will be poorer, that access to coastal belts will deteriorate due to construction deregulation. If you read strictly what is written in this law, it is clear that this will happen. If I limit myself to the coastal belts, because now they're dark. You transfer the authority to decide on the construction of these buildings from the government level, according to the ILO, to the administrative level, according to the Slovenian Directorate for Water. If the congregation had to be the one who made the request for construction in the coastal zone, that is what the owner of the plot is doing. This means, first of all, that there will be a substantial number of these applications, and second of all, that there will be a significant increase in the pressure on the Slovenian Water Directorate. And thirdly, you determine which things can be built and extended to objects of public use, and today you have added an amendment, if I am not mistaken, for easier objects. Thus, I do not understand how you can defend on the one hand, if, on the other hand, public interest in access to water and, on the other hand, allow deregulation to affect it. I am pleased that that article on water protection construction has been excluded from this law, but this whole law has only one purpose, and this is the deregulation of water management and the interference of capital interests in an area where these should be strictly limited, and this is water protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Replica, Moja Boxer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u56	Look, Mr. Luka Moon, you fly from beautiful to the hall, you don't listen before, you obviously don't read well, and then you speak your mind. Unfortunately, you can't talk about capital interests here either. Without capital, without the workers who create this capital, neither you nor I would have paid their wages. Thus, in the case of capital interests, caution must be exercised. It's capital that means development. But this is the law, and I believe it will also be able to regulate and maintain our drinking water.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Gradually, Luca Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u58	I ask you, Madam President, to warn you that this was not a replica, but a controversy. At no point did she say where she was meant to be misunderstood in my address.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Let me answer first. I see that the President, when he presided over the meeting, has already allowed a rather broad debate to take place in this work. It is so difficult for me now to interfere with anything that is not directly related to this article. So much for the comment. I give my word to the Minister of Magic. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u60	Dear Member, indeed, I cannot avoid this feeling that you did not listen to the previous debate when we have already responded to everything you said wrong. I'll do it again, for you. For the first time, free access to water and coastal land shall be governed by Article 38, which states in the first paragraph: “The owner or other holder of water coastal or other land shall permit any unharmed passage across its land to water or marine goods and shall allow the general use of water or marine goods, unless he does damage.” How do we deal with this law in this article 38? Absolutely not. Not at all, and it's still in effect. So it's not true, it's not true, and once again it's not true that we're interfering with this law in any way with access to coastal and water land for anyone. Because this 38th article, which speaks of this absolute right, remains and is not being tanned with our proposal at all. That's the first thing. Secondly, this proposal narrows down the right of intervention to coastal land, but in any case – even now and later, the municipality will have to allow the construction of this land by means of a spatially executed act. In fact, no construction, irrespective of the Water Act, shall also take place on the coastal belt and shall not take place anywhere, unless it is in conformity with the space-executive act. We also bear the brunt of the decision, which is crucial, professional and no longer political. Through the water-based opinion, I hope that we only believe that there are leaders at the Water Directorate. The management section will decide whether all the criteria are met, that is to say that the water well is not getting worse, that this is in line with the water management plan, that there is no increased erosion risk, that is, the profession and not the government. In fact, we want to depoliticize this decision to a professional level and you say that this is some kind of intervention in the transfer of competence and so on. That's not true. It is an effective professional decision and I think it is right that, in the case of attacks on coastal land, there is a decisive role for the profession and not politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Silent Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Dear Minister, you are very underestimating today and, as you might say, you are looking at all of us Members who remind you of some other aspects of this novel, such as your point of view. I'm not surprised because it's obviously the mode of operation of all the members of your coalition. But unlike your point of view, I read your new marriage. Moreover, I have also read other articles of the law that are not amended, and I have also read some other law in connection with the Water Act. And I'll tell you where you fool or where you manipulate your performance. You say with the new Water Act, we will reinvigorate the possibility of intervention on coastal land, if this option is to be deleted from the Government, so that it will be decided politically. The expansion of this coastal land was possible under current legislation only and only if all the conditions decided by Article 14 have been cumulatively met, which you are now amending. It is said that the guardians for such a decision of the Government, far from being political in this case, must, in this case, be the decision of the Government when it allowed a narrower part of the coastal land, based on some of the professional foundations, not the political, respected Mr Minister. So this article already has these guards. All conditions must be cumulatively met so that the Government can accommodate and narrow down this coastal land to a spatial planner. Therefore, it is not your view that anything by deleting paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article does not mean that you are essentially reviving the possibility of building on a coastal land. Absolutely not. With this change, you simply and simply determine that the coastal land will not recover – but most importantly, you are very misleading and do not explain very precisely here, but you are spreading a set of possible construction on this coastal land. So I repeat: you do not reviving the possibility of construction, you have prevented only, and only that this coastal land is not narrowed in terms of meters, if we are very precise and, at the same time, in Article 37 of this same law, the possibility of construction on this coastal land is greatly expanded. I have read the Construction Law because this novel of yours refers to it, objects in public use that you will now allow are defined as guest buildings, business and administrative buildings, commercial buildings, transport buildings and buildings for the execution of communications. Finally it is mentioned in this description of what is a public building, a facility in public use, that are public areas such as road, street, market, market, playground, also parking lot, also garage houses and so on. So you, with this change that you are now introducing, are expanding the range of possible construction on the coastal land. And it's not true that you're scaring him. Be so honest and say this to the whole of Slovenia, which is following us. Don't re-energize the possibility of construction, but expand it. If, in fact, your intention was to allow, I don't know, the construction of playgrounds and boats, as you said, and some sports green surfaces and so on, it could be done elegantly and it could be registered in law. But not to give you a whole set of possible objects just so that, as you said, no object escapes from the legal description. Mr Minister, this is done elegantly with some legal expression, for example, or other similar, I don't know, green or sports objects and so on. And no playground would fall off, and no boats would fall off. Of course, the malls, then the taverns, and so on. If you asked yourself in the introductory words or made fun of us who warn you about this; you said “I ask all those who oppose the tightening of the possibility of conditions on coastal land, do you want to actually continue to allow the construction of private buildings on coastal land, or do you have any investors in your client line”. Mr. Secretary, now I'm giving you the ball back. Do you have any investors for innkeepers, for hotels, for, I don't know, even though you've put together in Telekom, do you have any investors or lobbyists to do communications now? Once again, if your intention were to be honest, to allow only and only for some green areas, for sports purposes and so on, this would be the way to write the law. But it's not like you're leaving a wide palette now, and you're practically allowing all the lobbying. I heard a Member there, all the time he was referring to some spatial acts that are in the congregation, and they provide for such and different construction on these coastal lands. Already, but municipal spatial acts are based on state spatial acts, and we all know how changes in municipal spatial acts are taking place, with what lobbyistic contacts and so on. This is your scheming, because you're really cheating and you're really cheating with your words, once again, you're not scaring the construction, you're spreading it, you're spreading a set of possible sites on coastal land. You are just and only correcting an article that already has guardians, which does not allow political decisions today, but must be based on some professional judgements that you believe are capable of doing at the Ministry, as you also have professional staff there. So you're expanding the possibility of building for hotels, shops, garages and more. And your misbehaviour is not in place today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I'm gonna repeat one thing I've done ten times. Your Honor, it's not true what you're saying. At present, the sixth paragraph of Article 14 allows the possibility of building or narrowing the coastal belt to zero, meaning, in other words, that there is no coastal band and that it is possible to build private buildings on a different coastal zone. Also objects that are not in general use, including fairies of rich people or anyone. It's the current state. This moment is permitted. There are several applications on the Water Directorate to mourn the coastal belt for the construction of residential buildings. With a new proposal, this is no longer possible, since we are adding only one indent, this is that it is possible to build on the coastal belt objects of public use, saying what is intended for everyone. That's a fact. In my own words, I'm going to be very plastic. After the current law, a friendly government, our own or any other, a friendly investor, could build a villa near Lake Bohinj, Lake Blejska, or first-class watercourse, a private villa. He could have built if the government narrowed down the coastal belt and if he was angry that it was in a spatially executed act of the municipality. This is not possible under this law because the villa of an individual is not an object of public use and does not fall into any exception. So let us revive, honourable Member, the possibility of intervention on coastal land.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The replica, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, please give us laws that actually affect your marriage or your novel. You say we're only putting one in the novel. Yes, it is already in your novel that is indeed an indent, but read the Construction Law, which defines this indent in the whole paragraph and lists a set of objects that you can build on the basis of this one of your alliances in your marriage. And if we are precise, Mr Minister, on the basis of Article 14 of this sixth paragraph, which you are now deleting, the government can now deny this consent to the investor or the applicant for the narrowing of the coastal land.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u67	I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u68	Why don't you do it? Deny if the conditions required by this paragraph are not met. However, if the conditions are met, then yes, I suppose we agree that you do not have the arbitral right to decide whether to do so or not. If the applicant does not meet the conditions required by the Water Protection Act, I will not be able to read to you "if this does not make the water condition worse if public services are enabled" etc., so that I do not reduce the time, the government can now deny this consent to narrow the water belt. [[…]] At the same time, expand the range of facilities that will now be able to be built on this coastal land. That's what you're doing today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u70	I'm very sorry you don't understand what it says in here. See, so far it is possible to build all the facilities on the coastal belt if the conditions are met. This will no longer be possible because it will no longer be possible to build private buildings, but only public buildings. In any event, however, the conditions contained in the second paragraph of Article 37 must be cumulatively met. It is said that water conditions do not deteriorate, that floods, erosions, etc. are not threatened.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Can we proceed with the debate? Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman. And a nice greeting to the Minister! Look, we have a very important law change ahead of us. Mr. Secretary said he hasn't changed for nineteen years. Some changes are probably needed and the law is calling for changes, but now there is one question. I'm looking at a normative breach counter. In 2009, the National Assembly adopted a resolution on regulatory activities setting at least a 30-day time limit for the discussion of any new regulation and amendment. We didn't allow it under such an important law. It is very short notice to state that these comments, which I also have before me, are from some non-governmental, governmental, including the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, which are all in place. Look, obviously the law isn't well prepared and it's not well communicated with the public. Therefore, the only right thing to do would be to withdraw and reconsider, to look again, not to accept, so to speak, volunteer solutions. I tell you, the counter shows 67% of the violations during this government period as to how long public debates are taking. You don't trust people, you don't trust professionals, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust them, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, you don't trust people, There's a bunch of constitutional complaints, which you kick like bulldozers and run them all over. You don't want to hear any arguments from the other side. You're the only one who's dedicated, and you know what's right. Those who do not agree have the wrong idea and should in fact be humiliated if anything else is to be protested, imprisoned, punished, mainly beaten on the head. I don't think that's right. The Water Act should have some consensus and some consensus, because it is so long-term and so important for Slovenia that it is difficult to say how. I live on the coast. I was also at the time when we made the additional water necessary, because of the lack of water supply, we made Croatia. There's still a problem on the coast. Something happens that happened a while ago — a train wreck, kerosene leaked. Fortunately, there were no severe consequences. But we are talking about water, which is a very important issue, and at the time it was also triggered that the country should be more involved in solving these problems, as far as water is concerned, even as far as regulation is concerned, I welcome this initiative, the change in the regulation of water currents. We used to – again talking about old times, I am a little older – when it was the responsibility to regulate water currents at the coastal level, we had no problems in the Sečovje with floods. They later appeared because they were not properly regulated watercourses, cleaned and so on. Give also time to these things that do not belong in there or that are disputed to be put back into consideration. Now we're gonna have to do something that's gonna warm up to us later. When we talk so much about private construction, how much better it is now, because it will not be possible – I don't know, but I apologize, I don't have information, but I don't remember anyone being allowed to build a house on the beach. I don't. [[advertising from the hall]] 20 blocks. Okay, I'm sorry. If the achievement of this is no longer possible, I would agree. But there is still so much opposition to this law, so many comments have arrived, it is such a sensitive topic, and the waters are also under constitutional protection, which was an initiative and what the general consensus was reached, which was the initiative of our party. We need to keep this and keep it warm on your heart, at least here be reasonable in the long-term things regulated by the Water Act to make another turn. Let us allow the profession to tell it to the end, prepare itself and take another look. Finally, on the basis of today's debate, which we have opened up to problems. Let's be reasonable. On the other hand, I also listen to the advocates of this law. I'm listening, I'm listening, look -- I'm only listening as a cheerleading group because it's coming from this government. And all that comes from the government is real innovative and indivisible. You can't! I say, therefore, let us all reconsider and make another revolution together, as the colleague of the LMŠ Medved Group has already proposed. Come on! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u74	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greeting, Minister! We've heard opinions, both of them. I think that when this law is being amended, it is necessary to be objective and realistic about what the interest is, why this matter is changing at all. I'd say if nothing's changed for so many years, it means something's wrong or something's wrong. The first thing I'm asking myself is, I don't understand why it's a reduced procedure. I'd say there's some motive for a reduced procedure. I would rather see that this would be by regular procedure, so that there could be different opinions here and show a different interest in this. That's one question, Minister, directly for you. Next thing that bothers me a little bit about this. I am not so much in favour of having the authority to conduct all the procedures envisaged here transferred from the government level to the ministerial level. On the one hand, we can say it's better because we simplify things. However, given that a decision can then be taken individually, the Minister may, by means of his team, make such or other decisions in the environmental reports, including in certain agreements and so on. Look, I'm not saying this because you're now a minister, I'm talking in general, any minister will be from one place or another. This is where laws are passed. And when they are accepted, it is always necessary to consider that a person who adopts a certain law will not always be in government. Politics is a wheel that spins like we say. Is that right? One is one, one is another, but the laws stay. Or they need to be changed again if we've seen that they were improperly composed, if I say so simply. But, here's the thing that I'm interested in, what's the advantage you see in going to the Ministry level instead of going to the government. That could be good. Now, let me tell you something. I don't see anything at stake in certain interventions, if I say so myself, for non-fiction objects. I'll give you an example, for cycling routes. I think it's very good to make them, there can't be a barrier here, it's good, it's an activity of sport. You can do that, because you don't reach into any more unpleasantness here. The footpaths, for example. We've seen what a beautiful project was made near Sochi, near Solkan. Throughout the river Sočo was made in that belt that was somehow protected, but it was done beautifully and professionally. That's commendable. But it can also be done now, without changing these terms. I will give my opinion; now I do not know whether others will agree or not. Even any mounting terrace, if there is a place or something, must not be disputed. Well, the editing facility could be my option for a lot of things. But there are problems with fixed objects. I fear that this law will allow certain fixed objects to be built, even though we see precisely in Article 37 what is envisaged because it writes. But it says "except for". In this “except for” there are eight points that you can also understand in a different way. It's a very broad concept. I would suggest or rather see this matter as described and written so in general, that it gives you really 180 degrees of opportunity to intervene in a space along with water in order to first prepare a national strategy where such interventions are intended to take place. I don't know if there's any national plan where this could be allowed. I agree with you, Minister, that it is wrong to limit everything. I've always been among those who say we need to look at progress a little bit, at things that are needed. And I agree with that. I've always been here for that. But where are the limits? That's why I'm proposing and I've always suggested, because I've seen in my congregation water protection areas of different categories, what you can do in certain areas. Now we're gonna be new there, I don't know, I think it's ad1, ad2, 4 or I don't know how they're marked. [[…]] There are exact areas written where you can't even park a car, if that's what you're saying. You can't do anything, absolutely nothing, not an open parking lot or anything, nothing. But the areas were studied. Why were they so studied? Because we have to protect the water resources. On these sources of water, it is very important, given that we have also written in the Constitution that water is essentially the main issue with us, in our country, if we do not put it in the constitution. I'll give you a little case. I'm a little afraid that all that while we're in a hurry here is also thanks to what you promised, some new water source for the coastal belt. You know yourself who were there, you were there in October or I don't know when it was, October of the month, I think you met on the face of the city because they oppose completely all the karst congregations. Now we have to watch what we do at these facilities. We are doing a service to one congregation, to the detriment of other congregations. And that can't happen. Put your hands on your heart, let's think about it, it can't happen. I am like Kraševec, as Kraševec says – do you wonder why there is no water reservoir in Crassus? Because no one knows what's down there. There's no technology to figure out what's underneath. You're gonna make this collector, so many miles away, you can do whatever it takes, and there's gonna be one hole, one cave, which is, we can forget about this thing. What are we gonna do? Are we gonna wave or what are we gonna do? I'll give you an example. But that was one of the main reasons why it wasn't done. I'm not talking about biodiversity, the very intervention in that place, you know what I'm saying, the Suhorica stream, where the big problem is now and the big resistance. We will also convene an extraordinary session on this and see what can be done here. I think it's right here to clear things up, to tell people what the intervention is, whether it's positive or negative, why some are in, some are in, some are in, some are in, some are in, some are in, some are not. In the first person, I can also say as a half-expert in this matter, I know exactly where the surface water is. And you know what the problem of surface water at large rains means, and then it becomes the problem of Kal above the Canal, why they have to boil water and everything that is, why we're looking for a new water source, why we're helping them to get there. I don't think the ministry's getting too involved here. My opinion is that we could solve once and for all the Kal problem over the Channel. Several questions are raised by this paragraph. It simply says man, only one article is here, but this article governs two very important mothers. It's not just the belt, it's the water zone, so we're a little skeptical about it. I don't know what to tell you, Minister. I know, and once again, I've always been for progress, I'm for progress, I'm always for new things, but we must not interfere with certain things that would harm our nature, would harm people. It's under-protected. I think it's too open here in this 37th article, it's too open, there's too little limit, there's too few guards, there's too many individual choices. That's all I'm afraid of, and I'll tell you that honestly, really, because I know what this is about, and I also know how a person can make a decision about it. I hope I am wrong that you have good intentions about this, yet time will show what is right and what is wrong. Let me get this straight. The southwest part of Slovenia, Suhorica, I think it is right here that we should convene one committee of a broader character, invite people, experts, professionals, experts for, professional against, good for one, good for the other and then see and decide. Working on a rapid construction permit in an area like that, as you agreed at the time, is counterproductive for me right now. Thank you, so much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Only the answer to the question why the law is being examined after a reduced procedure has been confirmed by the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. This is a parliamentary decision. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u76	Dear Member, thank you very much for some of the useful suggestions you have made. Just for a little while, why the reduced procedure? An integral part of this law is the proposal that the resources of the Water Fund be allocated to the maintenance of the Slovenian watercourses. And since we want to do this as soon as possible this year, this was the key reason why we proposed a reduced procedure. So we can get started as soon as possible before everything gets greener, water treatment. In fact, the directorate can't wait for this to happen. Another question was why from the government to the Ministry. That's not true. We're moving the decision from the government to the Water Directorate. It's a political decision. That's the point. And that is, after all, simplification, and I think it is right that what belongs to coastal or water lands is decided by profession, not by politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Brana Golubovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Hello, Minister! In these last days, when the debate on the Waters Act was on fire, we were also able to hear that there were changes to the Water Act to remove bureaucratic barriers. In this direction, you also discussed in one of your statements at the beginning. I have to say that this really bothered me, because somehow I don't see the protection of water and coastal land as a bureaucratic obstacle, I don't see the protection of water-related ecosystems as a bureaucratic obstacle. I do not see any measures to prevent the harmful effects of water as a bureaucratic obstacle. I don't even see sustainable water use as a bureaucratic obstacle. I don't see it as a bureaucratic obstacle to the protection of water protection areas that protect groundwater from which drinking water is drawn. And there's something else I can list. It is said that all that is enshrined in Article 2 of the Water Act are the objectives pursued by the Water Act. I could say that it's about providing quality drinking water, if I just focus on it, for life. And life is not about bureaucratic obstacles. That is why I would like the representatives of the Government, including the Ministry of Economy, which is not here today, to make a little more effort to argue why certain changes. I believe that the basic purpose of the law, what you have now said in the end, was the transfer of funds, the right decision. However, in my view, the right decision was not to amend Article 37 and to amend Article 69 of the Water Act. Nor was it the right decision to adopt amendments to the Water Act. In the case of such changes, it must have the main word of the profession. You also said that the profession must play a decisive role in amending such legislation. Something like that. And I agree with that. But what did the amendment of the two basic articles that are the basis of this law look like? She looked like you had a 14-day public debate, of which 12 days, I think you started on 20 October, on 3 November last year. During this time you received some comments from professional associations and civil society. These comments were not taken into account. After a public debate, you have just placed in the law of amendment to Article 69, which states Article 4 of the novel, where you have foreseen that buildings, installations that use hazardous substances in their production processes or that buildings, waste disposal facilities can be built. This has been explicitly banned so far. You gave this after a public debate on water protection areas. And second. Amendments to Article 37. In your proposal, this was divided into paragraphs 37 and 37a, so to speak, coastal land and water land. Then, until the meeting of your mother's working body, you put this together again and added the third point of paragraph 1. Today we get one amendment to this 37th and a little later.If you like to talk about the decision from the Government to the Directorate, that you want the profession to decide on this, not politics, but it is quite unacceptable that such an important article of the Water Act, such as the 37th article, which speaks about what can be built on coastal land, changes in the way that it is complemented by policy five before twelve. Personally, I think this is also one of the reasons why this domestic policy of amending such an important law as the Water Act is reflected. Now let's go to Article 37. I even agree that Article 14, paragraph 1, may be too wide and allows a lot to be built. Of course I agree, or they're some kind of security guard, but yes. This can probably be arranged as well. But it's not you and it's not me, but let it have a decisive word of expertise. In your proposal, you delete paragraphs 6 and 7 and add paragraph 3 to paragraph 37 – the construction of public buildings in accordance with the law governing the construction of buildings. One of the reasons you are doing this, you explained that it will be possible to build boats, piers, playgrounds, recreational routes and so on and so on. This can already be done under this law, since paragraph 2 says: “Building buildings built by public good by this or other laws.” The built public good are recreational areas, playgrounds, vegetables, parks, in the final stages of the cemetery and more. All we can access is freely accessible, with one difference of course that this facility is publicly owned. What you are changing, and I even believe that the interest of the Ministry of Economy here was extremely great, as was Magna's when it was in direct violation of Article 69 of the Water Act, not to mention the first-class agricultural land. In this article, you allow, even though you say on the one hand, to be revived by deleting the sixth and seventh paragraphs of Article 14, which you might even say yes. On the other hand, in Article 3, paragraph 37, extend the possibility of building on all coastal lands, and you are allowing, in all likelihood, the Minister of Economy will be very happy, hotels, tourist accommodations, some tourist centres, shopping centres, after what it says, religious facilities, sports facilities, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, health homes. In the final phase, this doctrine means that someone — hypothetically, we are now speaking to the minister — could also build a garage along the water or a railway station, an airport. I agree that some things may have to be settled and they need to be narrowed down. But once again, the main cancer wound of this law has been that you have excluded the profession from deciding that even the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, and this has been repeatedly said today, has called on Members and Members to reject this law and has also written that it agrees with the fact that there is a lot of need to be changed in this law and in the sub-laws, but do so in the way that such a law is required, and this is with a broad professional debate where the profession is involved in the process of preparing solutions and in some way also in the decision-making process. By supporting our amendments to the LMŠ, which bring these proposals back to their original position, we invite you, Members and Members of Parliament, to reject this law and to have the Ministry launch broad discussions on the amendments and additions to the Water Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u79	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u80	Member of the Commission, I am concerned about this last call for this law to be rejected, because this means that the possibility of substantial funds from the Water Fund to finance the maintenance of watercourses will be rejected and that the watercourses will be neglected as before and, consequently, the flood threat will be greater than it should be. Dear Member, I ask you, on behalf of all those threatened by the flood, to consider rejecting the full law, as you state. For the amendment to the article governing this maintenance, this means of maintenance from the Water Fund, is not amended and all will be adopted or will fall. Similarly, Article 1 has not been amended, which refers to the deletion of Article 14, paragraphs 6 and 7. If you accept the amendment and delete this third paragraph, then there will be an absolute prohibition of any interference in coastal land, because there will be no more exceptions on the basis of the sixth and See, and you will take responsibility for these decisions. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Replica, Bran Golubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u82	Maybe we didn't get along, Minister. I told you this marriage is confusing, just like you set it up. That thing you were talking about, the transfer of funds, yeah, it's good, and that was the basic purpose of this law. Then the Ministry of the Economy was likely to bring in some of its demands. If this 37th article is adopted, and now I'm returning the ball to you, it's a political article, not an expert article, then we'll have chaos on coastal land in five, six years. When you put on a scale, when you decide whether you can move money from one piece to another, or chaos in coastal lands, then I know what to do. And you will still be able to secure this money in one way or another, but we will not be able to stop this greed, this desire for unbridled construction in coastal lands. And there's something else I'd like to tell you, but no, I'm just gonna finish here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, the Coalition Members have also tabled an amendment to the amended Article 37 of the Water Act, which we estimate discriminates primarily against natural persons as private owners of coastal land; this is mostly for owners who have their houses built on streams in urban environments. Today's amendments remind us of a large number of smaller construction operations, which, unlike major interventions such as public parking lots, playgrounds, various parks and the like, will prevent private owners of coastal land who, for example, on their land, are closer than 15 metres away from watercourses, mostly streams, as I have already told them, cannot arrange parking for their vehicles, cannot set up a shovel, rooftops, pavilion or any other simple facility, we are talking about simple facilities. Such problems are particularly present in rural areas where village settlements developed along streams along smaller rivers. Such settlements are usually very narrow, so it is often difficult to find a second replacement and suitable location for these simple construction operations, especially if we also take the ownership aspect into account. We also consider it illogical that in this coastal zone, for example, a public parking lot and a private owner could be banned from any simple construction operation. I come from Gorenjska and in Gorenjska we have one village of Goliča near Golnik, where the houses are actually trapped; on one side there is a stream running; on the other side there is a village road that has nowhere to be moved. Houses have been built there in the past, they have little garden and they can't, they can't put no shovel on the edge of their plot, because there's no distance from the coastal land. That is why we have today agreed that these simple facilities would also be made an exception and with those people who are already so difficult to live along streams and rivers that are most often cared for, at least in the past, for 30 years they have also cared about the shores themselves and regulated them, even though today we are hearing that they have sometimes violated a regulation. Therefore, for those reasons, and in particular in terms of equality before the law, we consider that the addition to the article is justified, noting that it is only interventions that are defined as simple objects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I see that there are still a few things to discuss, so we will start with a new round of applications. First of all, he has the word Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When we are exclusively discussing professional matters in these parliamentary benches, I would say that the constructiveness of the debates is very seductive and the level of these discussions is falling very strongly. But I don't think that much because of the debaters themselves, but actually because, in this case, it's about procedures that need to be well-known. Today I have heard anomalies of such and different ones, and I will comment on them a little bit, how these things really work and work in practice. First, it is necessary to know the adoption of municipal spatial acts, which we know how to begin – either at the initiative of the owner, the interested party and so on to the municipalities and then the procedure for amending the spatial act begins. I'd say the mayors aren't stupid to be in the river or in the coastal belt because I heard today what an object is in public use. True, this collection is extremely wide, but not having mayors for stupid enough to go to the coastal space to build churches. We know that at times, when they had no spatial acts, they built only on the top of the hills. Show me one of the churches that's built in the bottom of a stream. She's not here. You won't find her. Then I heard from the parking lots, shops, airports and so on. Look, there's this anomaly in these discussions. True, these are objects of a public character, but not with such comparisons now to come, I would say, but here today to indicate that this is now going to happen. Don't have a mayor for stupid enough to let them do it in their spatial acts. And then on, when we hear he's not a security guard. That's what all those who don't know these procedures say. See, when the congregation decides to amend the spatial act, professional grounds are first made. With these professional grounds, he can even ask for agreement from the ministries of the field. It's up to all the departmental ministries to give their consent. Not now that you mentioned it earlier – yes, the Minister is now speaking to the Minister of Economy. That's not true. In order to amend the municipal act, all ministries must give their consent. And before that, he's a professional when you talk about the profession. The consent for a water opinion must be given in advance before the municipality can even proceed with the procedure. So now you don't cheat, but well, maybe you don't know these procedures. Here are the guards for each other. You can't step on the third step. You can't because there's a guard waiting for you on the first step. Let's be a little constructive. With all due respect to all these signatories, as stated by colleague Dejan Židan, if I were to comment on this letter today, I would say that these respected colleagues, experts, have not read the law at all. That's not true. This letter was written before the meeting on the parent’s working body and was then relevant. From the parent’s working body to today, quite a few articles have changed. Article 4 was deleted because it is going to the water protection area, the amendment of Article 37 et cetera. The law has changed, and today, I would say, colleague Dejan is thirsty, gives the reputation of these experts, sets them up, because today is a different time period with a different content, it sets them up that today we can say for these professional colleagues that they have not read the law at all. Yes, logically because their opinion was written before the articles of this Law had not changed. And today, to potentise this matter is incorrect and to mutilate the name of all these experts that I trust and trust. But this document was relevant before the meeting at the home work body. So don't now malign their names, their professions and their skills. I believe they do, but that's inappropriate here today. Look, fellas, don't put your hands in the debates, always in political connotation. That doesn't work in the profession. There are procedures, there are criteria, there are guards, and so on. These general discussions today do not really endure, are not constructive and do not follow professions. Second of all, we're going to reject this law in a vehement manner. I believe that every marriage can always be complemented, added, or viewed from another point of view. But look, the first thing is, why is he going here with this law so fast? Because it is actually about own resources to immediately shift to maintenance and construction in anti-floating matters on Slovenian watercourses. This is the essential and primary purpose of this law. And now here's the vehement thing to say, if you do, we'll say no. What about when the first flood came and we didn't build it? In Slovenia there is an enormous amount of building on flood protection during this time. It's extremely big. It takes money, it takes money. This is indeed an urgent transfer of funds so that things can be built up because the needs are increasing than the resources available for this purpose. So I'm looking at the marriage from this point of view absolutely positive. There's more than enough guards for these interventions. Once again, don't underestimate Slovenian mayors, because they're not as stupid as you're discussing here today, what you're going to be able to build. And, of course, it is primarily necessary to provide funds for the construction of flood protection. That is why, of course, I will be happy to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The replica's got Dean Jedhan first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Mr Member, for bringing me up and giving me the opportunity to respond. I do not understand that the abuse of the profession is a reading of the position of the profession that it gave at the time of the withdrawal of the disputed article. In front of me, and this is my right, I have a letter from both the competent faculty and the four scientific doctors who represent the organised profession in Slovenia. I didn't use my own words. I read the profession's views. I don't even know all the people who are signed down below, but I assume that if there are professors, there's also a dean and so on, there's a career ahead of them that's undeniable. We must therefore listen to them because there is no way we can participate in this debate alone. After the meeting of the committee, I correctly stated that I had read their views. Have we now come to the conclusion, Commissioner, that we must be only silent on this side? If I read the position, correct, no insults, just read it, tell who it is – do you know that you will not be able to silence me? I'm going to read it over, and if there's any time left, I'm going to take the time again to read the whole position, even though there's not just two views in front of me, there are more. Thank you for giving me the opportunity, Mr. Vice President, to react.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u89	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u90	Thank you, President, for your word. I repeat to Mr Žnidar that my debate has certainly misunderstood in the sense that we are problematic in the transfer of funds for flood protection. This part of the law is absolutely okay. However, we are concerned if the law of 18 years has not been corrected to correct articles that have a broader social significance within 14 days. And these articles should be touched with a shaking hand and with respect to the profession. This is what I have highlighted in my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Honourable Minister of Mag. Vizjak, fellow Members and Members! Indeed, the Water Act is one of the laws that changes in principle very rarely, especially for one reason, because it is a substantive law and actually interferes with the unforeseeable number of stakeholders. The problems or challenges that can be caused by such a change are as long as the watercourses are long, and there can be as many problems. Of course, one of the pressing problems in Slovenia is the regulation of watercourses. In the SAB party we certainly welcome, unconditionally we welcome that the Water Fund funds are also intended to regulate watercourses. In particular, because these funds are available and are not used and it is a shame that the funds made available are not used to prevent damage. This is a matter with which we have absolutely no problems in the party SAB. The other is the fundamental substantive changes to the law. This Article, which speaks of construction in water protection areas, has withdrawn or withdrawn or proposed withdrawal from the public and Members of the National Assembly, as we welcome. However, we have a problem defining permitted constructions or new interventions in belts along watercourses. See, we already have certain regulations that allow and clearly define that public infrastructure facilities can be built on coastal or water land and those facilities are listed there. In this case, we believe that the country could take this step as well. In fact, this is where she decided and a very wide range of objects over some CC-SI classifications are listed. This, of course, allows for a number of interventions, otherwise in accordance with the law, but we fear that this way opens up a number of challenges. So we're actually afraid that Slovenian watercourses or lakes can become like the Vrb Lake, where you can't walk freely by the lake because it's all fenced up. We have very serious concerns here in this sense and, in fact, because of this very way, the relatively fast way of adopting this legislation or the procedure it is going on, we are very concerned and we do not approve of it. To put it again, we have a lot of problems in Slovenia with drinking water supply. In this context, we would also like to see this effect, even in essence constitutional matter – we would not have any problem if we were law-abiding quickly. However, we have a problem of regulating such things in this way and adding articles to the original text, which we consider to be controversial and, in fact, raise concerns or discourage us from confirming the law, although they have a very good article and we support it, this is, of course, this article concerning the regulation of watercourses. That's why we won't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u93	Thank you very much. It's the last one in this circle, dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Just for the introduction, if there are any churches that are not on the hill, they are at the creek — of course, there are quite a few. In Kotlja colleague Jani Prednika, there is one such church on the river level; from Polžev, if I take the train to Ivančna Gorica, there is a beautiful old church in the middle of the meadow and could list 300 more. Secondly, some insinuation, whether we have mayors and mayors as fools. Far from it! I always say this is the most difficult political function. Let's ask two simple questions. In the white landscape, we like to say that it's not the water that burns. Is the water on fire? Not yet. Does the water stop at the municipal border? Not at all. And that case of my colleague Žnidar, even though it comes out more of the builder's foho, the fly is not the best. In that amendment of spatial legislation, we have given an opportunity to RPNs, let's say, regional spatial planning, and if there is to be planning outside municipal coats, these are, of course, watercourses. A small stream that occasionally swims will normally pass through at least two municipalities, if not more than the network of our municipalities. What is the problem with this proposed law? The problem is that this government obviously cannot get one law to stop some fines from going to war. In order not to be justified, I will just say that I will drive the professional public crazy, which is then exposed to something, and that it would not be a whole part of citizens and citizens. And then it's always what you've been doing now, Mr. Secretary. Of course, there is something good in every law and then it is in Parliament, but if you don't support it now, that will be it. Your task or the task of lawmakers, whoever does this: whether they are working ministries, whether we are proposing Members, or citizens with 5,000 signatures, is in fact that the law is logically written down so that there are no such slags. It has already been said mainly by colleagues in front of me. In this obsession with the PKP, we have little forgotten about this, even in the PKPs, that the laws are some kind of bound vessel. You can't read the Water Act without construction law, and of course, in a broader sense, that so-called threesome. Of course, we also need to think about flood safety, plasmidity. One of my acquaintances was the minister in front of you, and he said that until I fought the minister, I didn't know how very repulsive Slovenia was. After what happened with the neighbours in Croatia, we also have to ask ourselves about the anti-shocks and, of course, we also have to ask ourselves about the performance, but you know. Are the mayors stupid or not? Of course not. But, let's say, a nice case is Laško, where they even moved one of the most floodwaters, and a stream, and then they built a part of the spas and actually violated the legislation. Remember, the first time Savinja was swimming a little bit more, they could have picked up wood in the garage of that hedgehog. You know, that's also an implementation aspect. This whole casino was created, I don't know, I didn't go exploring for the back, but a man gets the feeling that someone didn't even have a hand twisting the restroom, and then the restman wanted something inside because someone would build something. And now we have all this theater and where you come from, Mr Minister, because we should have a complementary explanation for the candidates, and in fact you are agitating how to vote. At the time, the chairman of the meeting should have interrupted you. And perhaps if after 19 years we change something or after two decades, if we know that there will be a war over water in the 21st century, some are already happening – but there are also some serious interstate conflicts, such as Hungary-Romania about the Danube, and elsewhere – then of course we should take more time. Here I agree with my colleague Tank, it was the task of the college to say, wait, hop cefissel, we have entered into the constitution, no matter what party card we have, we are all mostly made up of water. It's a serious matter to go the way we're going. And as my colleague Bandell said nicely, who also reads all things like me, we have "except if" there and then those dots and, of course, some fears are essentially justified. Even if we look at the logic of this government, which is very close to privatisation logic – but I am a social democrat, I am closer, if you want, to the Scandinavian logic – that the coasts do not privatise if I say so in a clear way. We need some serious regional spatial planning, we also need a return to urbanism, and we need more expertise. You know, we have this story in this House: politics or expertise. Wait, this hasn't been drinking water since the 17th, 18th century in some societies with slightly lit absoluts, not in the 21st century. But here I agree with Love, and then I agree with someone else. But then it's a problem when you have to eat a little bit more seriously into these relevant materials – that now I'll leave Dejan with a few minutes maybe for a replica. In short, the matter is too serious to be dealt with in the way you have dealt with it, and personally I think it is okay that this law is falling today and that we have to deal with these serious problems once again on a regular basis, taking into account most of the serious concerns of both professions and laymen, even aware of some of the historical circumstances of the creation of some settlements mentioned by colleague Udowicz. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The Minister has asked for the floor, Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u96	Your Honor, I'd like to repeat a few very clear adjectives. First of all, this law does not, in any way, affect the ownership of coastal and water land. Coastal land is mostly private in Slovenia, water land is state-owned and this law has nothing to do with property rights over coastal land. This law allows and undermines the possibility of intervention on coastal land and only for public use facilities. So far, in the current regime, interventions are also possible for purely private purposes. So, honourable Member, with this proposal, we underestimate the possibility of intervention on coastal land only for objects of public use, in addition to those exceptions which are already in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u98	Yes, the public use facility can be in a public-private partnership in the future and will do what colleagues have previously said. It's also a possibility of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u100	Yes, yes, but they're meant for everyone. You, me and France from Lower or Upper Kungota.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u101	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's still an interest in debate. We're starting the application process. Please sign up. First, Boris Doblekar has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. I must say, I'm very glad that this marriage is on the table, finally, to move something. In the debates, it was heard again, in a way, that this government was not doing well, but I think these discussions were completely inappropriate. The Minister explained ten times the same thing, saying what the purpose of this law is, what measures we have to take in the future, and all of this is welcome for people, for the economy, for nature, for the environment. We mustn't be afraid of any changes. Now you say, don't burn the water, we'll be second time, because we still have time, let's talk publicly, more broadly. That's what we've been talking about for decades. This debate, wishes I remember the discussions on the Infrastructure Committee. [[…]] Since I am a Member, we have always been talking about this with proposals, initiatives, different ideas. We'll come together. Many times we spoke the same language on these committees when we talked about this topic, about the problem of the waters, about the problem of the flood, about the issue of construction in the coastal zone and so on. But now we are – of course, the opposition in another role, but the role that everything needs to come together, whatever happens with the government, to collapse and, of course, the debates are completely different and I don't understand it at all. To reject the law in the form it is prepared, even though we have already somehow modeled it by the Ministry, including by the coalition, I think it is pointless and that it is not in place. Now we know how many loose ends there are on the watercourses, on the storms, the damage to people, the inconveniences, the dangers of life, too, the assets. I think it's just to say hello to the fact that there's going to be more resources planned for these watercourses to be saved, to invest more money in this. We know it's been too little so far. And I don't know whose name it is. I wouldn't dare to vote against it. I really don't. I'm coming out of the field. I was also a mayor. I'm a councilman. I know things on the ground. I know what it's like in people. And to reject such a proposal, it doesn't come to my mind either, really. I don't believe anyone else, but there are, of course, political decisions. But I would still ask you to reconsider on behalf of all these people who are affected by this problem, but there are few. There aren't many. There are also many requests for concessionaries to regulate these watercourses. I don't know, in my area, in Zasavje there's a hydrotechnic, and he asks: go fix this watercourse, go remove these branches, it's stuck here, it floods there right now. Usually, there is a very quick response that is a lack of financial resources, that there is no money provided for this and things stand. There we have Kostrevniška, Vintarjevska stream, Vintarjevska valley, which go see what it looks like on the ground. [[…]] And then the first slightly larger water, when a slightly larger storm comes — yes, because everything is flooded, it takes everything away! People also suffer, and for years on these watercourses farms, they have built some shovels, mowers, including barns, economic buildings near these watercourses, that's all flooded. It's the mud, the rocks, the wreaths, they have to clean it all up themselves. I don't see any MP going to help them. I really advise and recommend that such things finally move and that they also be confirmed. What I mentioned earlier in my position is that I miss different organisations by nature, environment, NGOs and so on. I don't see them in the field, but I only hear them when one thing wants to move by the government or the ministry, and then everyone's in a pile. I welcome everyone, every debate, every comment, everything, because we are people. You need to talk. But if I just mention the Rakkovnik dump, which is on the stream. Across the stream, over the drinking clean water in the middle of the forest there are ten thousand tons of waste; skin, chemicals, pigs. Over the brook, the right stream runs down, and all the penetrating in, and all the running in the river of Sava, and goes to Zasavje. And I fought for years and years. Finally, Minister Vizjak listened, things began to recover, which, of course, would cost a great deal, but what we did, but I never saw any NGOs there in Rakkovnik. That's what I have to say. That's right. Apnance in Kresnica, near the Sava River, the barrenness or the material that was applied when one water arrived, where it would all go, God knows it. That's all by the water. It's all done now at this time. It's not like I don't know when. The Hudurnik, the watercourses, the Loki stream, the Vache, the Hotic, you know all this. After all, Slovenia is only a case from the local area, but you all have it everywhere. [[…]] Again, Sava, it's all flooded all the time. But then it's always just curative; it's said when something comes up, but let's do something and try to fix something, and it's a lot of trouble. Finally, the municipality is going to fix its costs of things that are from the state to help people to get to the farm, to their economic premises. You need to listen to people and help them. And not always immediately after we turn on pure drinking water, but now we are going to jeopardize something if we allow someone there, as we have proposed with the amendment, or the coalition suggests that they are only allowed to finally some woodshed at any creek. This is not a threat to clean drinking water, some water resources. The threat is that Crab, and what I mentioned before is black landfills, and usually in the grabs in the streams. And there's still a lot of them. That's the problem, and there I would expect some organizations to jump into a luft and we'd all get there, look at it, warn it, turn on the media, and say, enough of this, but let's stop polluting the nature of clean drinking water, water protection areas. I'd expect more activity there. A lot of times it also sounds like there won't be a profession for politics to decide. The minister said it well. Things will be decided by the Water Directorate. Is the Water Directorate a political body? It's not, is it? It's not like the Water Directorate is a political authority. There are experts there, at least I know them. I know there are experts working there in the field. And they're environmentalists, and they're environmentalists, and they're naturalists, and they're people who do schools, they do colleges, they get to know each other about these things. They must comply with the legislation and I see no problem here if they decide on it. I'd be more afraid if the Members were to make this decision in here, but who might be looking at it a little differently. And we're not all experts, at least I'm not an expert. But I see things kind of pragmatic, because I had to face them as a parishioner or a councilman and I still face them literally almost every day. So I trust the profession, I trust the experts, I trust the Minister for the Environment and the Space he's working on, and I know he loves nature. The minister's not working on polluting water resources. You don't think he wants to drink clean drinking water? I don't see any problem here if it's up to the profession. A lot of times it sounds; for example, people go, you go abroad, maybe many of you do, and you see what cycling paths look like on the rivers outside, what flossers look like there on the rivers. It is also in Koroška: so arranged restaurants, facilities, rafts, can have arranged things along the river, on the river with some montage facilities, recreational trails, walking paths, I don't know, some arranged access to the river, to the stream, to the lake, eventually to the coast, to the sea. That's right, it's so arranged, because we're not going to put that at risk. Yesterday I watched POP TV by an expert or whatever it was – yes, a threat to clean drinking water. Where else is it like in Slovenia when you open a pipe and drink water? He mixes with everything else right now, just to make it sound better, but he's trying to get something dirty. And we will no longer be able to access the coast, the river, the lake, the sea. Yeah, where does that say? I have not seen this anywhere in the proposal for this legislation. But then, through the media, it's kind of trying to get things in a different direction, and I don't think that's right. Let's be honest, let's say what it's like, how it's written, how we imagined it. I mean, if we accept that, there'll be no problem at all. I therefore propose once again that we accept these amendments. Perhaps there are other changes to this law in the future that would be very welcome. One of them has also now been withdrawn, and perhaps even a little wider discussion will have to be made, and things will be clarified that in fact everyone will understand that this was not a malicious proposal. But perhaps it is only right to clarify things even more and also to make several words available to the Minister Visjak, who can say things because he is an expert in this field. I think people will find that easier to understand. So I welcome the changes, I welcome that something moves, that we will not only sit and talk about it, but that something will finally move. I'll be the law and confirm these amendments to the coalition. But I also suggest that the rest of you think about it and help with it. We will do nothing wrong, but good work for people, for nature, the environment, the economy, for water, for tourism; in short, good things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is also given by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u104	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Earlier, one of the Members, I think he was of the SMC type, said that water should not have political taste, colour and smell, and I fully agree. In fact, given that it is water, which is actually our universal source, a natural source, even this water when we talk about pure drinking water, of course we should not have taste, nor smell and color. I also asked the Minister, I think last week, a question about cleanliness or the problems we face in our environment, is said in Eastern Slovenia, in the Lower Podravje in general, about clean drinking water. I have only mentioned this, but I will now focus on the law, but it is more or less that we all come from certain regions where we have problems with quality clean drinking water. And when I talk about the Water Act, it is also the primary concern of all of us, and of the ministry as well as of the minister as such. With regard to the law relating to Article 37, paragraph 3, first paragraph, the construction of public-use buildings in accordance with the law governing the construction of buildings. Now I'm going to explain the matter further. The facility in public use may be an object or part of a facility whose use is intended for all under the same conditions and may be a non-residential building such as a guest building, a business and administrative building, a commercial building and a building for service activities, a transport building and a building for the execution of communications, a building of general social interest, a ritual building and another non-residential building, if it is intended for public use. Then we're here about the devil hiding in the details or in some smaller ones, just like it did here. Now I've given you a list of what is essentially also public-use objects, and you're really expanding a set of objects that you can build or that you can build, and I'm going to say, on some specific routes, I'm going to put them in a place where they don't belong or where they shouldn't belong. I also have a question here, if you'll further explain this to me, because now I've just told you what facilities this is about. How will you urinate this or how will you control it? Because I've explained to you what objects this is about, and I've counted them. In fact, it doesn't hold what you used to explain to everyone else. This will need to be settled or even settled. I don't know why you have so much against NGOs as certain Members. Because if we didn't have NGOs, even when it comes to nature and environmental protection, we would actually have an environment destroyed a thousand times more than we have now, water is even worse than we have now. In fact, thanks go to all these NGOs that try and dare and hope to put on the edge, but it doesn't matter whether it's this political suit or whether it's the previous one. So, they're always willing to side with the good, the fair and the citizens' side. I think that in such a case, when you talk about NGOs, we should call them first and ask them for their opinion. There are a lot of people working in these NGOs, in fact, recognised experts in all or even in certain areas, in this case with regard to water and the environment. Please, if you can explain to us how you're gonna storm this thing. Of course, when we talk about water — without water, it is not alive. However, the fact that politics should not interfere or dare to shop or to shop politically in such cases, when it is a pretense that the public actually wants to privateize or privatize these areas or the very source of drinking water, I think we should have all the alarms ringing and all of us should take a social stand against such things when it comes to our universal good, and this is water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u105	Thank you very much. First, a replica of Boris Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u106	I have to replicate to my colleague, Mr Koražija, who mentioned in the debate that some Members have something against NGOs. He probably didn't get me right. I didn't say anything about having anything against NGOs, and I would ask if it wasn't misleading in the debates. I didn't mention in a word that I had anything against NGOs. I support NGOs, both environmental and nature-protective, and I also cooperate well with them, I am in the past, and I will also be in the future either in more professional matters or in the very cleaning actions they organise or co-organise, as we do in Slovenia, where I was the main organizer of the cleaning action in the large area of Zasavje. That way, I have nothing against NGOs. However, I said that I miss their cooperation more than once, or that they should be raised more often where not everything is as interesting as some major projects. That's all I wanted to say was that I miss them there. As I mentioned our case, the Crab – dump site, I never saw anyone there, but the water is there, the stream and clean drinking water, nature, people; there I miss them. I have nothing against them, and it is right that they are, and I respect them, but many times I would like to see them join in matters. Or perhaps a little better cooperation and a little more constructive discussions with the Ministry of Environment and Space could be found several times in a common language. And to take into account professional arguments, not that there is only politics in the game, which is very much what happens in here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u107	Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u108	So, look, ten times said. I just have to deny the truth ten times. Dear Member, we are not spreading a set of objects that can be placed on the shore, but we are smoldering it. For today in the current novel, it is said that if this novel is not adopted, it is possible to build both public use facilities listed as well as private use facilities on coastal land, provided that the spatial implementation act of the municipality so provides, if those conditions are met which are now identical, and if the Government decides to reduce the belt of this coastal land. Thus, it is now possible to place private-purpose objects in the coastal zone under certain conditions. This allows for the sixth and seventh paragraphs of Article 14, which are deleted by this amendment. We now propose narrowing this option only to facilities of public use. That is to say, facilities of public use, which you listed only one part, but you did not list sports parks, playgrounds and the like. Children’s playgrounds are not infrastructure and do not fall under the other exceptions. They can be, but they can't be. They don't have to be. I just want to say, honourable Member, that we are only putting this on objects of public use. And when you asked how we would control how we would regulate it. It's simple. These facilities cannot be placed in the premises unless a spatial implementing act of the municipality so provides. Throughout its discussion, through all the consents of the co-legislators or lessors in the process of adopting the municipal detailed spatial plan or the OPN, the municipality must obtain all the positive that this use may also be intended for that purpose on the coastal land. It is said that only the opinion of the Water Directorate is not sufficient as provided for in the Water Act, and it is also necessary to have appropriate spatial bases in the spatial acts of the municipality. In fact, all local authorities are involved, as this is voted on by the municipal council, there is also a public hearing and there are appropriate public procedures for the adoption of these acts, where it is possible to say everything about a particular case in a particular coastal land. These are the guards that don't abuse what's written here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on Article 2? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members, the amendment of the Left Party and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I don't see a desire to discuss it. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SURVEILLANCE LAW The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Mark Koprivec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Koprivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! You have before you a novel of the Kindergarten Act, which is a single amendment to Article 34 of the Kindergarten Act, which deals with the competence of municipalities to finance private kindergartens. If I may look back a little while ago, at the time of the previous government, when Minister Pikalo was led by the Ministry of Education, more extensive novels of the Kindergarten Act were being prepared with a number of changes to this area. One of the areas was the change in the jurisdiction of municipalities to finance private kindergartens. Since most of the proposed changes at the time could not have been addressed due to the collapse of the government, then she is the new minister, says Dr Simona Kustec, but put most of these proposed changes into the procedure with the exception of one that we are dealing with today. At that time, for unknown reasons, the Minister simply omitted this change, saying that it increases the autonomy of the municipalities in financing. After that, we were waiting for representatives of the democratic opposition to make this additional novel, and because of the lack of this, we decided, the SAB, LMŠ, Levica and SD Group, to put this matter on our own. But this is: you know that in Slovenia we have a very quality, good network of public kindergartens distributed throughout the country. Let's also say it internationally. After all the OECD comparative analyses and others, we are indeed at the top of Europe and the world on the quality of this public kindergarten network. In addition, we also have private kindergartens, which are completely left to private initiatives, which can be set up by anyone with some interest, anything that is, must be put in the register. Thus, the Ministry must give them the clue that the conditions for the implementation of the programme, whether public or not, are appropriate. The municipality, however, does not have a say in the fact that it is the principal of kindergartens and in some way responsible for this area. Thus, in recent times there have been situations in which public schools are free of cities and, on the other hand, the congregation is obliged to finance a kindergarten set up for such or other reasons on the basis of a private initiative of 85 percent of the programme. And since we have listened to a number of comments on this account both by municipal organisations, all municipal organisations have proposed that this matter be changed, proposed by the profession, proposed by the educators, proposed by the association of directors, and in some ways, I hope to say that the matter has already been very well coordinated, everyone has agreed that it is right that the municipality, as a financier, has the possibility, if there are enough places in public education – only in this case – that the municipality can decide whether and to what extent it will also fund programmes in private kindergartens. I would like to point out that this isn't about concessional kindergartens, it's about absolutely totally private kindergartens. And once again, it is absolutely right for the congregation to decide whether a private kindergarten needs or not. Many times we have heard on this right side of the obvious about the right of parents to choose. Respected and respected! The proposal does not in any way take anyone's right to choose. Any parent will still be able to decide where to put his child. It is true, however, that the right to choose is not equal to the right to finance. In fact, we cannot expect to be financed by public funds, whatever it takes. Here again, I would like to point out that all those kindergartens that have some alternative teaching methods, either as montessori, as well as as as the end of Catholic kindergartens, are absolutely welcome to complement the network. I'm sure none of the mayors of kindergartens like this would stop funding. But this is again, I repeat, if there is one public kindergarten and one private kindergarten in the same area [[sign for the end of the debate]] And there's plenty of room in the public kindergarten, so let's give the mayors the possibility of not financing that private kindergarten. We just give them that, we don't stop them. The other thing is that we don't change existing kindergartens. In other words, the transitional provision states that by 2024 [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u111	Comrade Koprivc, your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u112	There is a situation as it has been so far. [[…]] In short, I ask that changes be confirmed in favour of public kindergartens and in favour of the good conduct of the congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth at its 16th regular session, held on 11 March 2021, considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Kindergarten submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Mark Koprivec. At its 94th meeting, on 12 February 2021, the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted a decision to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made some comments to it. Her representative said that the solution in the introduction was only briefly presented, that there was no explanation for the scope of the proposed amendment, in particular in view of the current decisions of the Law on Kindergarten and the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. It also drew attention to the unexplained relationship between solutions and the relevant consistent constitutional judgment of the Constitutional Court. It further explained that the opinion also raised the issue of compliance with the principle of trust in law and pointed out that certain definitions were insufficient. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the applicant. The representative of the Ministry presented the opinion of the Government, which opposes the bill. He said that the municipalities pointed out the necessity of supplementing Article 34 of the Law on Kindergarten by defining the jurisdiction of the municipality in deciding on the co-financing of private kindergartens. He explained that there was an urgent need for further coordination in this regard, as it was a sensitive and difficult subject to be thoroughly examined and addressed in order to avoid subsequent legal complications in the implementation of the law. There was a discussion in which some members and members of the committee felt that a private kindergarten, which wished to be co-financed by the municipality, should have two sections of children, which the Kindergarten Act had already laid down between 1996 and 2008. This will make it possible to protect children in private kindergartens, as it is in their interest to ensure the sustainability of the kindergarten. They praised the excellent public network of kindergartens, which can be a model and an example of quality and expertise throughout the world. They also pointed out the possibility of awarding concessions to private kindergartens by the State and considered that non-economic treatment of public funds should be prevented. Others felt that private kindergartens were part of the public school network and that pre-school education must be quality and plural, and that it could only be public and private kindergartens at the same time. In addition, parents have a responsibility to care for their children and to raise them in harmony with their beliefs and values, and this is followed by their decision to enter into kindergarten. They stressed that a co-financed private kindergarten is a right and not just an option when the public planning of kindergarten facilities is cancelled or cannot be subordinated to the criterion available to public infrastructure. They also presented their opinions and opinions to a number of institutions whose work is directly linked to the content of the issues under consideration, experts and representatives of the interested public invited to the meeting. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the labour market, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth has proposed to the National Assembly that the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens should be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Damir Orehovac, State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Hello, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin by saying that preschool education in our country is very quality, which we are also recognised throughout the world, and this is something we can be very proud of. The system of pre-school education in our country is based mainly on public education, which includes 95 per cent of all children and is, of course, complemented by a private initiative. Here I would like to introduce special pedagogics such as montessori or Waldorf. If we look at how many institutions there are, we can say that 25 percent of the institutions in private kindergartens are private, then there are about 25 singles and about 50 such kindergartens in primary schools. In short, about 400 kindergartens. The aim of our country is to maintain and improve the quality of preschool education and to include as many children as possible, the goal being, at European Union level, 96 per cent. We are, of course, approaching this goal every year. As far as the law before us is concerned, it has been tabled by Members. Since the previous novel, which we discussed at the beginning of the year, was discussed primarily in relation to this so-called Article 34, which should also regulate private kindergarten financing. In this debate, and also in the debate in the State Council and everywhere, where the debate was held, it turned out that the positions were not harmonised, so we also initially decided to set up a working body, a commission at the Ministry, where representatives from both municipalities and representatives of private kindergartens and, of course, representatives of public kindergartens would be present, with a view to finding some kind of proposal that would be acceptable both to the municipalities and to private kindergartens on the other hand. As has already been said today, the government has given an opinion that is negative and does not support this law. Nevertheless, the opinion remained the same, irrespective of the fact that this law has been confirmed in this procedure by the competent body labourer. Maybe just what those things would make sense to mention here. Although this law governs, at first glance, only private kindergarten funding, which has been highlighted primarily by larger municipalities, we believe that such a change would be a major intervention in the management and operation of kindergartens. Questions are raised as to what criteria the municipalities or their competent authorities will refuse to finance a private kindergarten. That, for example, is not the law's proposal. It would particularly touch those private kindergarteners who do not have concessions and who cannot have them because the current legislation does not allow them to do so. It's these so-called kindergartens that work according to the special pedagogical principles that I've already mentioned in the introduction. Then it's a matter of procedure. If the competent authority of the municipality rejects the role of legal protection, for example, against the decision of the competent authority and in particular in the transitional decisions, the question of what happens after 1 September shall be raised. For example, the parent who enrolled in a private kindergarten will have to pay a higher price. There could probably be another reason here, but I should like to reiterate that, for the reasons and shortcomings of the proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposed law and proposes that the working group established should continue its work and find an appropriate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u117	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u118	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, welcome! With good intentions, the Social Democrats have prepared today's proposal for a novel of the Kindergarten Act. We have followed many calls from municipalities that point to the unfair legal obligation to finance private kindergartens without concession. With this proposal, we give municipalities a choice; that is, choices to decide for themselves whether to finance private kindergartens or not. Funding can therefore be refused, but only provided that there is sufficient room in the public kindergarten for all children involved in private kindergartens in their territory. The bill also provides for private kindergartens to be financed from the budget of the municipality if they have at least two children in kindergarten. The activity of preschool education is the legal obligation of the municipalities. They must provide and finance a network of public kindergartens, and it is also right that they have an impact on private kindergarten funding. Many times, though, congregations in public schools have room to cover, while private schools must also be financed. It is therefore a double use of public funds for the same purpose. Financial resources are not unlimited and private funding from public funds must not in any way affect the decommissioning of the public. Increasing research shows that the involvement of children in kindergartens is of great benefit. The high quality of education and the protection of young children is thus the basis for successful lifelong learning, social inclusion and personal development. And the free choice of every parent is whether to enter a child into a public or private kindergarten. Children are different, have different needs and desires, so each parent will give his or her child what he thinks is best for him. However, this choice or right to a public or private kindergarten does not also constitute a right to finance. The Constitutional Court has already taken the view that private kindergartens are complementary to the offer of a public network of preschool education. Therefore, the arrangements under which private education is financed to the extent that the State or the local community can do so are not unreasonable. In addition, private kindergartens are independent and independent from public kindergartens in determining the price of the programme and parental payments. That is why we do not accept some evidence today that we are taking the right of parents to choose kindergartens by means of a bill. It is not the duty of the State to finance any private kindergarten that is not part of a public network. This change does not limit the establishment and functioning of private kindergartens. However, what is essential in the debate on public and private education is that a public network of kindergartens that allows access to all children, regardless of their personal circumstances, is essential for quality preschool education. So property or social position, sex, religion, intellectual ability, class or other affiliation, political or ideological belief. It is an exercise of social state and it is therefore quite understandable that the State must take care of public funding in the first place. We are pleased that the proposal of the law is supported by the Community of kindergartens of Slovenia, the Association of Directors of kindergartens of Slovenia and the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia. We regret, however, that the Government does not support the bill, although it says that it is aware of the necessity of legislative changes in this area. We support the changes and ask for the support of all other parliamentary groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be moved by Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u120	Your Honor! The Law on Kindergartens, which is ahead of us, regulates minor changes to the law, which nevertheless bring about major changes in the organisation and financing of preschool education. Thus, the bill introduces two main solutions. The new law provides for two additional conditions to be met by a new private kindergarten to obtain funding from the municipal budget. These two new conditions are the minimum number of departments required and the existence of free cities in public kindergartens. A private kindergarten should thus have two sections of children provided after the amendment of the law, while it should be aware that in Slovenia the number of births has declined over the last four years. In the years 2008 to 2017, more than 20,000 live children were born in Slovenia each year, and in 2018 for the first time in ten consecutive years less than 20,000 were born, and in 2019 for the second time. In 2020, 5 percent less children were born than in the year before. According to the number of births, it will be very difficult to provide for two departments of children in the future, even in smaller municipalities with up to 2 000 inhabitants. However, another solution introduced by the novel is that the decision to finance private kindergarten is entirely left to the congregations. This means that the novel makes it possible for municipalities to refuse private school funding if the municipalities in public education have enough free seats for all children involved in private schooling. We are aware that the activity of preschool education is the original competence of the municipalities. It is also true that municipalities in their territory should therefore provide sufficient public service capacity. But it wasn't always like that. During certain periods, it was private schooling that was the solution to parental distress, since some municipalities in the public network did not provide enough places for all preschool children in need of protection. At the time, it was very convenient to cut, if any, according to an alternative for which the municipalities did not need to invest even a cent in infrastructure, these were private kindergartens. Our assessment of the novel's proposal does not take into account the life situations that even force parents to put their children into protective custody at a certain time due to the distance of their job or job and the resulting time constraints, that is, at nine o'clock. This is one of the more common criteria that parents do not care whether kindergarten is public or private, but that it is quality and time and space accessible. We must not forget that at the end of January we adopted a government amendment to the Kindergarten Act, which introduced, among other things, a free kindergarten for another and all other children from the same family. This solution also opens the way for new children to be enrolled in kindergartens, which otherwise would not have been free of charge for them. As a result, we can rightly expect greater pressure on kindergartens. Then again, we will all be grateful that we have some private kindergarten. Today, about 5 percent of preschool children are enrolled in private schools. According to our assessment, given the debate we have witnessed on the parental committee, this percentage is so low that it cannot possibly pose a serious threat to the public kindergarten network. We support public kindergartens and public education in the modern centre Party Group. We also support a solution that allows them to pursue the goal of as much involvement of pre-school children in institutional protection as possible. In private kindergartens we see the competitiveness and diversity that private kindergartens provide in our society. Therefore, we cannot support the amendment to the Education Act under consideration. However, we appeal to the competent ministry that, in the context of the already appointed consultative group, whose task is to find an appropriate solution for the financing of private kindergartens, this solution, in cooperation with all stakeholders, shall form this solution as soon as possible and shall be submitted to the National Assembly as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u122	President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This law on the financing of clean private kindergartens without concession, which operate across local communities, which we propose in the opposition, will be supported in Levica. The current regime allows private kindergartens to obtain public funds from local communities, although they do not have concessions, do not perform public services and do not respond to the social needs of individual municipalities. The Law commands the congregations to finance private kindergarten only if it occurs, whether the congregation needs it or not. And the current regime exhausts municipal budgets and leads to slow but persistent privatisation of preschool education. It is because of the latter that the Association of Municipal municipalities, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, supported the proposed amendment of the law before you today. In fact, if the municipality is unable to provide enough vacancies in public education, it can grant a private kindergarten a concession. The award of a concession means that a private kindergarten is performed by a public service and has the same programme as a public kindergarten and that a special concession contract defines the extent of the funds provided by the municipality to a private kindergarten by a concession. Although we believe in Levica that municipalities should provide free places for all children in public kindergartens and that the need for concessions should not arise, this law is without prejudice to the scope of consecrations. In short, the opposition law we have drawn up does not affect the area of concessions. But private schoolchildren who do not have concessions also get the right to automatic funding from the municipality. Be careful, however, that these funds are to be paid, even though in public schools with the founder of the congregation, the city is still free. And because of such reckless financing of private kindergartens, there are increasing numbers of private kindergartens in urban centres, especially in Ljubljana, which are not included in the public network and which are becoming fully stable and do not respond to the actual social needs of the protection of children in the municipality. The law we decide today allows municipalities to refuse private education funding if there is no need for additional capacity in the municipalities. Makes sense. It is therefore proposed that the municipality may refuse to finance private kindergartens without concession if the municipality in the public network provides sufficient space for all children from its municipality. In Levi, we support such a solution to the problem. In fact, we have proposed a further step in Levika. There is no need to finance private kindergartens without a concession. If the State or the municipality does not provide or temporarily do not provide sufficient vacancies in public education, they shall have the possibility to include private kindergartens in the public network through the award of a concession for the provision of a public education service. That is why we have proposed with the amendment that public funding for private kindergartens should be completely abolished, but this amendment was not adopted by Members on the Committee at the time. In Levica we advocate all accessible and free preschool education within the public kindergarten system. Promoting private forms of protection and public funding for private kindergartens poses a risk that the state will no longer see the need to increase the capacity of public kindergartens. If the capacities of public kindergartens are not large enough, more and more parents will be forced to use private kindergartens and private guardians, which means slow but persistent privatisation of preschool education in Slovenia. This is also evidenced by the inflation of private kindergartens in urban centres, as I mentioned earlier. It is a harmful transfer of public money into private pockets without the private capital actually addressing social needs. On the contrary, more expensive kindergartens are financed, which many cannot afford. Moreover, private kindergartens do not open up in rural areas or where there is a social need to do so, but where they can be the founder of a promising private kindergarten, of course, a profit from economic activity. This law, which limits public funding for private kindergartens, will therefore be supported in Levica. In the future, however, we will continue to strive to make it clear to the public that it is private and that public funding for purely private kindergartens without concessions is simply abolished. We also stress in Levica that public kindergartens in Slovenia, according to international recognitions and after all the research done on kindergartens and also on the status and quality of child protection in public kindergartens in Slovenia, are public services for children and parents of the world where we can be proud, and we must keep this. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The positions of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u124	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With the amendment of the Kindergarten Act, the opposition wants to deny free kindergarten for another child from the same family who are involved at the same time in kindergarten and the right to free kindergarten for the parents of three, four or more children involved in private kindergartens. In a bad year, Minister Simoni Kustec succeeded in what her predecessors failed in almost 10 years, re-enacting free kindergarten for another or all the other children from the same family. It is likely that from here all the oppression and desire to limit and block the financing of those children whose parents want to raise children in accordance with their beliefs and values. Sadly, some mayors have also taken sides in deciding who, where, how, and how their parents will raise their children. In New Slovenia we ask whether it is not the freedom to decide parents and children, citizens over the mayor's freedom. Let me reiterate that Article 11 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education states that public education and education services are organised by a public network consisting of public schools and schools, private schools and schools, and individuals with concessions. This first paragraph of Article 11 of the ZOFVI clearly shows what a public network is and therefore in Nova Slovenija we understand the desire for a change the opposition wants to make as the beginning of the decommissioning of constitutional rights and the continuation of the fight against private and private property. The latter was also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service. According to the law, preschool education must be quality and plural, and such education can only take place in the presence and development of both public and private kindergartens. Parents have the duty and right to raise their children in accordance with their beliefs, values, different approaches and methods and teaching methods. This is a constitutional right that allows us to be plural, even when we decide when a child enters kindergarten. In New Slovenia, in recent years, we have been working with the introduction of the Free Kindergarten Act to ensure that every time the government and ministers are able to understand that affordable, quality and, of course, affordable free kindergartens are important in the planning of families and children. Such measures must be long-term in order to correct the image of an ageing society in Slovenia. Certainly, these measures must not be linked to the exchange of governments, current policies and local authorities or mayors. It is necessary to revive the awareness that children are rich and not a burden on the municipal budget. The Ministry has committed itself to preparing a proposal for amendments to the financing law and to align the solution with all stakeholders affected by pre-school education. I believe this work will be done before summer. Once again, I would like to apologize for the inadvertent mistake of voting on the committee. In New Slovenia we will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u126	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word. The area of pre-school education is an important part of the education policy in Slovenia and includes all types of services that provide the protection and training of children before entering compulsory primary school. There is no doubt about whether the country recognises the area of pre-school education and protection as a public or as a private problem in the formulation of pre-school education policies and the protection of pre-school children across countries. In countries where pre-school education is perceived as a private problem for working parents, policies to raise and protect pre-school children are less developed and focussed on individual groups of children. On the contrary, countries that have recognised pre-school education as an area of public interest have developed a policy that understands the right to quality pre-school education programmes as a fundamental right. Slovenia undoubtedly belongs to another group of countries, as the quality of Slovenian kindergartens is exceptional and can be measured with some of the best kindergartens in Europe. The way we financed preschool education was last met in the National Assembly a good month and a half ago on the reading of the Law on Kindergarten presented by the current government. As part of this debate, we have also addressed the above-mentioned important issue of financing private kindergartens, but since we have remained opposition parties in opposition positions as a government coalition, we have tabled our amendment to the Kindergarten Act, which, according to our assessment of the financing of private preschool education, governs in the only appropriate way. The proposal before us thus addresses the financing of private kindergartens, which we have tried to arrange twice. For the first time, plans prevented the resignation of the then Prime Minister of the Government of Marjan Šarc, and for the second time, the current coalition. By means of a complicated amendment of the law, we increase the autonomy of the municipalities in a way that they can refuse to finance private kindergartens if the municipalities in their territory have enough vacant places in public schools. The current level of funding does not change and, in the case of the consent given to the municipality, remains at 85 per cent of the funding per child involved. An additional condition for gaining the congregation’s approval is that a private kindergarten must have two departments and not one, as set out now. The proposed amendment shall be implemented with 1. 9. 2024. In opening, let me point out that the substance of the proposal is not in savings, but it is a fundamental question of where this country will focus and where it will focus. As already mentioned in the introduction, in Slovenia we have excellent quality public kindergarten programmes, which we have decided will be the dominant form of preschool education in our country. Despite the fact that the State allows the possibility of establishing private kindergartens, which are also financed by 85 % of the funding, in the SAB we believe it is right to give municipalities co-financing programmes in private kindergartens, in the case of free public capacity, the possibility of giving consent to the financing of private kindergartens. If cities are free in public education, it would be irrational to use municipal funds to establish new private kindergartens. This provision was practically included in this content already in the proposal to amend the Education Act at the time of the government, which we were also part of the SAB, in the novel proposed by the current government, and apparently fell out by some chance. That is why we have missed the problem of separation between the public and the private, which we have missed in the previous novel, and which we consider to be very current, ourselves. We believe that the proposal is appropriate, so in the SAB Group we will support the amendment that we have signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The original competences of municipal financing of goods and services of public interest, which municipalities are obliged to provide to their populations, include the care of preschool care and the education of children. As part of this concern, municipalities are therefore obliged to provide for infrastructure, financing of costs, salaries of employees and co-financing of the price of parents under social legislation. Slovenia has an extremely high-quality network of public kindergartens, the founders of which are municipalities. The number of vacancies and the manner in which the programme is implemented adapt to the needs of the local population. Statistical data on the number of births in the last 20 years show the following picture. Between 2000 and 2007, the number of births was below 20,000. In 2008 to 2017, the number exceeded 20 000, and in the last three years it again fell under this number. During the years when the number of births exceeded 20 thousand, this resulted in a shortage of vacancies in public kindergartens, followed by a logical consequence of the establishment of private kindergartens. Until 2008, private kindergartens had to have at least two children’s departments if they wanted to obtain public funds or municipal funds. The amendment of legislation in 2008 reduced this condition to one section. It is not wrong, since this was a period when public capacity was not sufficient to cover all the child registration needs. There were 38 private kindergartens in the whole of Slovenia in 2010, now 98 of which have only 15 awarded concessions. In recent years, accelerated investments in reconstruction, upgrading and new construction of kindergarten facilities continue to take place in most municipalities, and the number of births has unfortunately declined for the third consecutive year. Under the applicable legislation, municipalities do not decide independently on the financing of private kindergartens, but are obliged to automatically co-finance 85 per cent of the funds for each child involved in such a kindergarten when fulfilling the legal conditions. Today, the municipality has no influence on the establishment of private kindergartens. And what's going on today? Empty cities in public kindergartens and co-financing of cities in private kindergartens at the same time. The question of the economy already has its answer. The municipalities are clear in their position; in this way the money thrown aside could be used in a different way. Perhaps local communities could pay some more to a socially disadvantaged family, old-age homes could get some extra space, and a sidewalk could be built to increase the safety of our school-bound children. We were in Desus, we are, and we will always be advocates of the public. Public health and public education must serve all their services and under equal conditions. And when it comes to public raising the financial resources of all citizens and citizens, which we then devote to meeting the general social needs, in this case it is a matter of raising and protecting all our children, and if we all invest in the education of teachers and in the construction, then it is very irresponsible of us to pay for all the vacant places in public kindergartens at the same time and to co-finance private kindergartens only because for someone the educators and programs of public kindergartens are not good enough and they are looking for other alternatives. So that we are not misunderstood, we have no objection to the free economic initiative to set up private primary schools, kindergartens, health clinics and whatever else, which is already publicly guaranteed. We agree that we have the right to choose between different service providers. It seems unreasonable, however, to us, at least most of us, to be dealing with tax money in such irresponsible and uneconomic terms. The solutions to the bill were coordinated before the time. In the Desus Group, we gave them the majority support at that time, and that is how it will be today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u130	Nice hello to you all! The pre-school period is very important for children's development, particularly with regard to emotional development and socialisation. Parents therefore have every right to choose, in accordance with their secular beliefs and values, a kindergarten or program in which they want to enroll their child. That's their constitutional right. The changed method of funding, however, gives parents the right to free choice of kindergarten. The bill amends and complements Article 34 of the Kindergarten Act, which allows municipalities to prevent or stop financing private kindergartens if the number of places in public kindergarten is not fully occupied. It may also cease to finance in the event that a private person does not have a key at least two departments for children. We are against such changes in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, because we believe that quality and plural pre-school education must be provided as a matter of urgency, and only if both public and private kindergartens exist at the same time. Private kindergartens are only a supplement to the offer or if you want added value for additional programming content. On the other hand, only 4% of children are enrolled in private schools, making Slovenia the European Union's tail itself. The proposer, as he points out, wants to prevent the non-economic treatment of public funds, as they consider it to be a double-exploitation of public funds for the same purpose. That's not true. A child in a private kindergarten costs about 60 percent of the costs to a child in the public sector. In addition, the congregation also covers all maintenance costs, various extraordinary expenses, and so on. We are also asked how the congregations will work if there are more private kindergartens in the congregation. In fact, on the basis of what or what criteria it will decide which private kindergartens it will allow and to which it does not, it is said which private kindergarten will continue to finance and which will not. I hope to say that it will go here on the principle of sympathy or personal resentment. The decision will therefore depend on the ruling political set, the real parties and sympathizers who will take office in local elections, from the sympathy of the mayor and municipal councilors to the kindergarten programme, personal or political offenses and so on. We also disagree with the proposal that a private kindergarten should have at least two departments, since this means that private kindergartens outside urban areas will be among the first to lose the right to finance. Slovenia is a whole, not just Ljubljana. At this point, we should ask ourselves why parents prefer to include their children in more expensive private kindergartens, and based on this, to build a law for the future. The law needs to be arranged for a new one, in its entirety, not just after bits, just as all the laws in this temple of democracy do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Hello! The SD, Levica, Alenka Bratušek, LMŠ have tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Kindergarten Act proposing that municipalities may refuse to finance private kindergartens if the public kindergarten has sufficient seats in the municipality, while at the same time providing for the establishment of a private kindergarten provided for at least two sections of the children involved. The reason was that the congregations indicated that there were free cities in public education, while private schools were full. The municipalities invest in new public kindergarten buildings, but they also have to pay unoccupied towns for public kindergartens. Thus, the congregation would save and increase its autonomy by means of this proposal. The legislation provides that the municipality must initiate the procedure for the construction of kindergartens or tender concessions if there is an interest in the inclusion of one section of children in the municipality. The plant is financed by parental payments and tax subsidies for individual children directed from the municipality to kindergarten and the amount of the subsidy depends on the income of the parents. The municipality directs tax money in the form of a subsidy to private kindergartens, except that only 85 per cent of the subsidy paid by the individual child in addition to the parental payment, the price of the kindergarten, while the municipality does not calculate the amount on the basis of the price of a specific kindergarten programme, but on the basis of the calculation of the average price of public kindergarten programmes in the municipality. The bill completely misses the purpose of clearly filling public kindergartens and justifying municipal investment, saving tax money and thus reducing the municipality’s legal dependence on the state. The calculation shows that savings due to only 85 % of the financing of subsidies to children involved in private kindergartens in the full-time department represent savings at a level that allows the municipality to fully finance four unoccupied places in public kindergarten. Therefore, the statement of savings as a result of this measure is not valid. Nor does he state that the congregation’s greater autonomy is to decide whether a private kindergarten should be established in the congregation. The proposed measure impedes the free market for services, in particular because the applicant does not have a serious criterion for selecting a private provider in the case of several tenderers, thus opening the door to possible corruption. The determination of the condition of two departments for the establishment of a private kindergarten is non-lifelike. The founders of private kindergartens generally start their activity with limited resources in their own properties to be redesigned, with very difficult standards for the implementation of preschool education. They usually start with one department and the salaries of private school workers must be the same as in public schools. The definition will completely prevent the establishment of private kindergartens. The proposed law is a permanent obstacle to a private initiative, which will in the future also cause serious disruptions to the provision of preschool education, as no private person will be able or willing to establish a kindergarten, since the contribution is too large for the average founder of the private sector, and the risk of the municipality rejecting its funding is complete. However, who could have built a building, invested a million or two, submitted a kindergarten programme for adoption by the competent professional council, which he had to do by law, and then, with all the money invested in the building, in the staff, for two educators and two assistants, received a refusal to finance his kindergarten. If the situation, as the proponents themselves have mentioned in their explanation, were ever again to repeat, when there was a serious shortage of free places in kindergartens in Slovenia, private kindergartens would never appear again after the devastation caused by the proposed law as a solution to the situation. The law thus constitutes an undemocratic restriction of a private initiative and a general threat to the provision of full service to parents in need of child protection. However, if there are no vacant places in public schools and they are busy in private, the congregation needs to check what is wrong with public kindergartens. Parents who have children in private schools also contribute public funds to public kindergartens. So today you can see that you cannot get a place in kindergarten in Ljubljana and in Brezovica in many congregations. Right now, this is being handled by private school kids. Thank you for that! For all the above reasons, we do not support the law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u134	Hello! Today we have heard different opinions, advocates for and advocates against this proposed law. We will, of course, support the law in the LMŠ because it deals primarily with questions that opposers do not want to hear. They express the thought that they should be grateful, and false claims such as that the local community at the time of the crisis did not invest a single cent in preschool education at the time of the baby boom and that this situation was resolved by private kindergartens. That private kindergartens have been helpful and that they are welcome already because, as liberals, we think that the choice is always welcome, but the choice is not the one that should also allow compulsory payment. In fact, it must be realized that most parents really want to have a kindergarten in the immediate vicinity, just like they have a store, just like they have offices and everything else. Especially in larger cities, since it has been exposed to Ljubljana several times today, we can say that even during the crisis when cities were lacking in kindergartens, the Ljubljana Municipality, as an example only, invested a large amount of budgetary resources and invested in expanding the premises of preschool education. What is more important in the whole matter is that it is to count — and if we put something into it — on the self - determination of local self - government after managing and, ultimately, deciding where it gives the funds. And if there is, we will always object that the same thing is paid twice; that is, once as empty space and twice as occupied space in private kindergarten. It is irresponsible and rude, however, when we talk about private kindergartens and mix concepts such as private kindergartens and private kindergartens with concessions. No one has ever and never denied justice to all those kindergartens that are private kindergartens and have concessions. And if they have a concession, it means that there is also a public interest, that such kindergartens also work in the local community, and we do not see any sense and need for such a kindergarten to, of course, end the concession. The excuse of the State or the competent ministry that it does not support these solutions alone and only because it sees that opinions are divided and that it will reach some consensus with a group, I will tell you that the case is already doomed to failure in advance. A possible solution is – which, of course, the state will never decide – which is to take on the costs of such a way of financing the state and leave the local community to manage its business in the local community itself, since only then will the state recognise, as in all democratic countries in Europe, that the local community also has sovereignty over deciding on its budget money. Pre-school education is better organised in Slovenia than many in Europe. We can boast of very high enrolment in preschool education, which, of course, has a plus in various areas. However, this cannot all be an excuse to say that this is a reduction in the free economic initiative. No one and no local community has ever been able and cannot prohibit private decisions if they decide to establish a private kindergarten. This does not mean that because someone has decided to go in the direction of a private kindergarten, then the congregation is also obliged to finance it, with its own empty spaces. The LMS will, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 67th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 2 p.m. and 10 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 13.38 p.m. and resumed at 14.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u136	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 5, 7, 10, 6, 22 and 12 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will continue the second reading of this by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 30 March 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI to Article 2(1). Mr Željko Cigler on behalf of the Group of Members. First of all, she has the floor for Procedural Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. In accordance with Article 73, please take a 45-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u138	I'm adjourning the session and continuing at 2.55 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.12. and resumed at 14.55.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u139	Dear colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 2(1). Comrade Željko Cigler, explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u140	Your Honor! Article 2 of the bill amends the provisions on interventions to water and coastal land. As we noted earlier in the discussion, there is a wide range of buildings that can be built on water and coastal land, including inn, hotels, parking lots, garages, even with churches. With the coalition amendment, simple objects are added to all of this. I mean, the amendment of the coalition thus only worsens the already so much damage done with the proposal of the law. And the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Andrej Vizjak, says that he does not hold that all that can be built is broadened, but the comparison of the previous Article 37 and what is proposed in the new novel is very clear; it is a serious deterioration in the protection of water and coastal land. Such changes are unacceptable and therefore the coalition amendment must be rejected and the amendment proposed in Levica should be adopted, in order to remove the possibility of construction of public-use facilities, i.e. restaurants, shopping centres, parking lots and so on on on water and coastal land, and that the construction of any, but indeed any, water and coastal land is not allowed because it must not interfere with the general use of water; that is, the use of water for drinking, bathing, diving and so on. In short, the use of water for public good. It is therefore a protector who follows the spirit of the last constitutional change, where water has become a protected human right in Slovenia, so we will vote in Levica against the amendment of the coalition and for the amendment proposed by Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 35. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 35.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 2(2). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. (For the vote was 35.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 2(3). We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. (For the vote was 35.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 4 under Article 1, the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 4 under Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 4 under Article 3. Since the amendments are substantively the same, we will vote on them together. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 83 votes against 1. (For the vote was 83.)(against 1.) I take it the amendments are accepted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendments and to the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to paragraphs 2 and 4 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. Yeah. My friend Golubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u142	Thank you very much. In the third reading, we are predicting an amendment to Article 2 of the novel. It would take the circus 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Okay. So, I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue today, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of Maš Kociper's vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u144	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the SAB Group, I will say that, of course, we will support this law in the parliamentary group. We are also co-signed as proponents of this law, and we are also the party that proposed the amendment when we adopted the Kindergarten Act proposed by the coalition. In our country, we have extremely well-developed public kindergartens. I personally believe that this is one of the best institutions we have in our country. We have been investing in them for many years, not only in financial resources, but also in human resources, in development, in having kindergartens that we can follow around the world. Sometimes around the world is the duration of how many children can be in kindergarten, limited, parents have to prepare their own lunch and the rest, the program is more protection, so to speak, guarding, but not as educational and developmental as we are, and this all requires some resources. In our country, in our social country, we have decided to focus on public education. Therefore, it seems to me that the most logical provision of this law, which says that the local communities that finance this activity should give consent – carefully – to open new ones, not to open up, to finance new departments and private kindergartens. It is not an intervention in existing private kindergartens and in existing programmes, it is a financing of new departments and kindergartens in the case of – and this is another guardian – where there is sufficient room for children in public kindergartens in this local community. It is also a rational spending of budgetary money not least, but above all it is a principle. Can't someone who is a private, self-initiative, without consulting anyone, decide to open up a kindergarten and a local community, even though the money is enough to have enough public kindergartens, this kindergarten has to fund 85 percent of the normal programme's price. All local communities, all congregations, all representatives of the congregations, support this law. It is also supported by two committees of the Council of State, and those Members who are so eager to praise you for working in the interests of the congregations, today we will see how you will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Marko Koprivc on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u146	Thank you very much, President. The Social Democrats will also be absolutely supportive of this amendment of the law. As colleague Maša has already said, in Slovenia we have a good network of quality public kindergartens, accessible to all and are, in fact, everything, regardless of religion, regardless of social status, regardless of what part of the country they come from or what their beliefs are. International analyses also show that we can be truly proud of our kindergartens. We are indeed among the champions in Europe and in the world according to the quality of public kindergartens. On the other hand, we also have private, private kindergartens, which can be quite positive and well complemented by public kindergarten networks, but in any case, it is right that the municipalities are so autonomous that they decide that when there are enough places in public kindergartens, they will decide to fund private kindergartens to what extent or, if at all, to what extent. I emphasize once again that there will be no confusion. This is about private kindergartens, not concessionaires; it is said not to be a public network of kindergartens. These are private kindergartens that are established, set up on the basis of a private initiative, and all the state has to give here is to give the hook that conditions and other things are appropriate. But it is not logical for the congregations to be forced to fund these kindergartens automatically, since there are enough cities in public schools. This amendment amends only that, if there are enough cities in public education, the congregation may forget the matter here. However, if there are not enough cities in public education, nothing changes completely and in particular does not change for concessionaires. Once again: I believe that each congregation will be able to judge which private kindergartens are important complements and which ones are not. I understand that some kindergartens are being established with alternative teaching methods, perhaps even Catholic kindergartens, and this must be absolutely so. But it is not understandable that a single kindergarten with a public school programme, as implemented by a public kindergarten, would compete literally with this public kindergarten. It's a long-term decommissioning of a public kindergarten network, but you know. After all, it would be even cheaper for municipalities to have these private kindergartens to pay 85 percent for programs. But that means a long-term decommissioning of a public kindergarten network. All experts, the professional public, the unions, the board of directors, and all the congregation organizations attach this to us. Of course, it is logical that they are against the Association of Private Kindergartens, because at the end of the day they received just as much money and, of course, the Roman Catholic Church is against their personal interests. [[sign for the end of the debate]] However, we believe that more money must be invested in public education and that this public network must be further strengthened. I believe that reason will prevail today and that there will be a majority who talk a lot about how the congregations need to be helped and how it is for the public sector, but [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Zigler's stomach on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u148	Thank you very much. In Levica we will support a law proposing that municipalities may refuse to finance private kindergartens, provided that they have sufficient space in public kindergartens, which are cost-funded by space, equipment and personnel and are of quality according to their activities, for the admission of children. Where this is not available, the congregations have concessions and assistance. They are also assisted by Waldorf, montessori kindergartens. Certainly we are not in favour of pluralism in the exercise of pre-school education in the opposition, but it is necessary to ensure the rational and economic use of public funds for pre-school education, thereby ensuring a quality, world-renowned activity in Slovenia. Here we have listened to opposition parties to all municipalities in Slovenia, which connect through the Association of Municipal municipalities, the Community of Municipalities and the Association of Slovene municipalities. We have listened to kindergartens who agree, and especially to parents. In short, it is a rational and cost-effective use of public funds, pluralism is recognised; there is no way that we would oppose private kindergarten activities as well. However, local communities are obliged – and these are practically the largest partial budget in the local community – to finance and provide enough space in public kindergartens in Slovenia. That's why the Left will support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrnjar on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The subsidy does not go to kindergarten but to a child — 85 percent of the average price of public kindergarten in that congregation. Savings are created which, in full-occupied private kindergarten at one department, makes savings for the payment of four unoccupied places in public kindergarten. Save yourself from a private building, and it's not true that all the mayors would be in favour of such a solution. It's simply an untruth and a delusion. Private kindergartens solve problems with their smallness and flexibility when there are no vacancies. Now try to get a seat in Ljubljana or in the surroundings of Ljubljana. He's not here! Maybe you'll get it in private school if you don't stop it. It is not to fear competition, the best public kindergartens in the world and in Europe have nothing to fear, this competition, as you said. And 25% of private kindergarteners are in the European Union and only 4% are in the EU; competition is therefore negligible. Under the conditions established by this law, no one will establish a private kindergarten and then we will be in the same situation as we were ten, twelve years ago. For all these reasons, we will not support such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In his own name, Comrade Kordish, then Comrade Brickler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u152	Here I see the possibility of this law to limit the proliferation of private kindergartens, especially at the expense of the public care of children, and therefore I will vote in favour because I am against private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u153	Thank you very much. My friend Brickler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Data on where private public kindergartens operate show that they are established mainly or exclusively in urban centres where many children can be obtained and in this way a private economic initiative is carried out; in short, it raises money at the expense of public funds. These are not established in the majority of Slovenia, which is in rural municipalities where there is no such offer of private kindergartens. It is not for one reason alone — because it cannot be earned. In short, it has to go for the kids and not for the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u155	Thank you very much. My friend Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. I'm gonna check in, 'cause it's gonna be a long afternoon. I'm a little surprised that someone who says "it's about kids" will explain at the same time, "children need to be sliced." That's the first story. Secondly, at the point that we discussed earlier, the Waters Act, the right-wing side of the street crouched that we were looking at the mayors as if they were stupid. And again, somehow my logic doesn't work here with these gentlemen, which is what they're saying right now. In fact, I would like to talk about what I said during Cerara's term of office, about how to introduce broad, alternative pedagogical approaches into the public kindergarten network. But of course, this will require a different and different composition of the National Assembly, which I hope to experience soon. I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the draft law have not been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Safety in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 1. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Andre Kmecl as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Andrej Kmecl to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the motion for a decision on the termination of the presidency and the appointment of the president of the Committee on the Economy. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the group of the Parties to the modern centre for consideration by the assembly. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. You want the word of an MP, Members? Comrade Reich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u158	I will object to the proposal for one simple reason when the number of members of the parliamentary group changes or when the coalition group moves to the opposition or vice versa, it is necessary to check who holds a position in the working bodies. In this case, too, we should first agree on this in Parliament, and I will therefore object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will end the presidency of the Committee on the Economy. Branislav Rajić, and as president, he is named Mateja Udovč. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th paragraph of the agenda – the third is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Act, the ordinary procedure. Since the proposal for a law on the second reading of amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 15 which has been published on the e-club. I give the floor to a representative of the government on the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! In view of what has already been said, which I have already pointed out on Friday, there is a need to harmonise Article 33, i.e. the amendment to Article 158. As a result of the second reading of the amendment to Article 103, there has been a lack of consistency or a lack of consistency. Simply put, it is that if someone extends the permit or is looking for it for the first time, or is getting it permanently, things need to be equalized. The fact is that the Council of Europe Directive has stated that Member States are obliged to require, in the case of employment of foreigners or third-country nationals, to provide evidence that they have permanent and regular resources for themselves and for dependent family members sufficient to maintain and maintain their closest family members without using the social assistance of the Member State concerned. Therefore, the harmonisation amendment to Article 15 reads as follows: In the third paragraph of Article 33, the word “appropriate health insurance” shall be added to the words “covering all emergency health services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia”. The third paragraph shall be amended to read as follows: For the purpose of issuing the first temporary residence permit, to extend the residence permit, to issue further residence permits or to grant a permanent residence permit, the alien may demonstrate the fulfilment of the condition of sufficient means of subsistence by means of the means he has provided himself with, by means of work or insurance, with the exception of the reimbursement of work-related costs, by means of income from capital and other resources, or by means of those who are obliged to survive, by means of a grant or by means of an account opened to a bank or a store in the Republic of Slovenia or abroad. The fourth sentence is deleted in this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u161	Thank you very much. You want the word of a Member and Members of Parliament! Yes, colleague of Janja Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u162	Thank you very much. It is true that the proposal for an internal law is now inconsistent due to the fact that such a vote has taken place on the Committee. However, it must also be said that the amendment had already been clearly rejected on the Committee by Article 15 and that the amendment for the new 103a article had actually entered the transitional provisions and that the Government had the opportunity to go on two sides here. One side is the one that the Government has actually chosen, and the other side is the one that we should really choose, in our firm conviction, because that is the way it was agreed. This was pointed out by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and also by the former Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefic. So what the Government is doing now, thus introducing new conditions regarding the level of livelihoods also for those workers who are already here and who are already doing work and will ask for extension of their work permit or residence permit, means something very clear; hence, that construction, transportation, hospitality and tourism will be in distress. This is what will happen, and we have talked about this all the time, that this should not happen, so we, or I, will personally oppose this amendment. I would like the Government to take into account, however, what State secretaries of its kind have always warned that, of course, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology would also be able to do in the future, i.e. in the meantime, to defend those positions which the previous one has advocated, and they are obviously not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present voted 46 against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Voice explanation, Matthew. T. Vatovec on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u164	Thank you very much, President. In Levica, of course, we will vote against this law for two reasons: first, because it is anti-human in some way; second, because it is anti-working. Why is it anti-human? Because it introduces the so-called Institute of Complex Crisis, a complex crisis by which this government and Minister Hojs legitimize the illegal practices that are now being used, Pushbacks are said to be. Pushbacks, which are contrary not only to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but also to the number of other international acts. These pushbacks are unfortunately carried out by the Slovenian police, we have this documented. In numerous reports of numerous NGOs monitoring developments at the border between Slovenia and Croatia and then, of course, also down in the Balkans, this is an extremely illegal and unconstitutional article. On the other hand, the government is trying, or by means of this proposal, to make its position very clear to all foreigners in this country. What's going on with the Aliens Act? The period of association with the family shall be extended from one to two years, a certain part of the remuneration received by foreign workers in that country shall be reduced or exempted from the calculation of sufficient means of subsistence, which shall also form the basis for the merger with the family and so on. A number of measures are being taken by the Government to make the lives of workers, foreign workers in this country difficult, as well as association with their families. Under the line this means that the workers we import to perform works for which there is no workforce in Slovenia are good for working here, when they are no longer needed, when employers no longer want them, but we can send them back without difficulty, because, of course, without a family, many people do not want to be alone in a foreign country for so long. This testifies, in fact, to the state of this government and also to the position of this government towards foreigners. Finally, I would like to point out that Slovenia already has one of the strictest not only foreign but also asylum laws in the European Union, and with this novelty that we are considering today, we are going even lower. From these points of view, we will vote against this law in Levica, because it is easy against people and against workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Natasha Sukich in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u166	Thank you very much. See, if this law is adopted, Slovenia will become the country with the strictest border regime in the European Union, according to available data. Of course I'll vote against it. As Matthew said, this law is markedly anti-work and against asylum seekers. It's against work because it's literally pointless to make life miserable for foreign workers. Let's just say that families can unite after two years instead of one year in force so far, it's really torture and even children within families – I put it on my soul especially for those who care about children, right? The second, which is very paradoxical, is the introduction of an institution of the so-called complex crisis when the mass influx of migrants threatens the functioning of the country, our values, the life of the population. In which case this complex crisis will actually come to light, which is essentially an emergency, and with a simple majority in Parliament, of course, it is not sufficiently clear. But the fact is, migrants have not yet crippled any countries in the world in operation, so we don't understand why. Something similar has already been rejected by the Constitutional Court in 2017, since in practice this means the abolition of asylum legislation, and this is also prohibited under international conventions in a state of emergency. I don't understand where we're going. Pushbacks happen anyway, it's just a legitimacy of practices that are already being implemented. Of course, I will strongly vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 35. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Aliens Act. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 67th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume in 30 minutes, that's 4:00. (The sitting was suspended at 3.27 p.m. and resumed at 4.00 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u168	Dear colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session and item 5 of the agenda – the third is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Water Act in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments and Article. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Left Group. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Look, I'm gonna start the list, and it is. Applications are under way. The first one has the word Brana Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u169	Thank you very much. In fact, this is another attempt to convince you in some reasoned debate that Article 37, as proposed by the coalition, still rejects and leaves the article intact, as it has been so far. Why? Because this change you are making now, 3 and 4 points, two points, allows you to build on the banks of rivers, streams, lakes all over Slovenia. In the coastal area of all Slovenia. That's what you're allowing. You may not even know it, but you actually allow it. And what construction? You do not allow residential construction, but you enable the construction of hotels, tourist centers, hospitals, parking lots, schools, kindergartens and so on. We are talking about a 15-metre coastal belt, a belt that we must protect; a belt that is important for the state of surface waters, for water-related ecosystems, habitats of many plants, animals. After all, by allowing you to build right next to water all over Slovenia, you will cut off natural routes, disable access, free access to water. That is why, colleagues and colleagues, because this is, after all, the Water Act, which has been in public debate for 14 days following a reduced procedure in which the profession has not been taken into account and cannot participate, but should, as well as the international convention, talk about when we are talking about the need to involve the profession, we would like to say about the precautionary principle – I believe that you all know what a precautionary principle means in changing environmental legislation and what else I could tell you. But, very rightly, I would like to invite you not to miss this opportunity to reject this change in government, to leave the law as it is, and then to support it in LMŠ without any difficulty, because that basic solution is good, but this solution, which has been proposed, especially by the Ministry of the Economy, is only for hotels, not for nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The word is Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u171	Thank you, President, for your word. According to the Minister, the Water Act has not changed for 18 years and then the law is amended by a 14-day public hearing, by adding articles after public hearing, by disregarding the professional public and so on. I will read only one excerpt from the position of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana. It is an institution that educates experts in construction, construction, spatial planning, management and environmental engineering. What do they say? “The introduction of amendments and the subsequent withdrawal of individual articles to which we have witnessed in the last days indicate the professional unreasonableness of the proposed amendments to the law. The possibility of building sites with an important ecosystem role is increasing. Such interventions cut ties in nature, increase the vulnerability of society to flood damage, ” and so on. [[…]] In short, they propose that the proposal withdraws, that a thorough professional, broader public debate be held, that all stakeholders be invited to discuss it and that appropriate amendments to the amendment of the law be determined on this basis. That is why we are re-imposing an amendment that deletes this disputed article, especially for the reason that you reconsider whether these changes are appropriate. If this, in our opinion, is deleted from this law, we will of course support the law. In order not to be mistaken, one of these proposed amendments, which discusses the expansion of the use of the Water Fund, is good, is appropriate and is also written on the skin of the municipal communities. This second change, which we believe is controversial, does not outweigh the benefits of this first good change. Thus, once again by the LMŠ, consider whether it would be better to reject the law, conduct an appropriate professional, broader public debate and then introduce these changes with a broader consensus.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u173	Thank you, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Minister said earlier during the discussion: we are reducing the right to intervene on coastal land. With this sentence, the minister cheated and manipulated. There's a few things you need to say. By deleting the possibility that the coastal belt can be lowered or narrowed, of course, I'm talking about meters, from 10 to 3 or whatever, and by this you're justifying that you're reducing the right to construction on the coastal belt, it's nice to say manipulation. Why do I say that? Since the article or text of the law which now permits the narrowing of this coastal zone already contains all the necessary security guards, it is said that the conditions under which this Government may exceptionally be determined. If these conditions are not met, the Government may in any event refuse this consent to the investor or the applicant for the narrowing of this coastal land. Thus, it is not a kind of withdrawal of the government's political decision, as the minister has previously reasoned, but it is a simple manipulation, because by reason of your reasoning that this is now exempt from the law and that everything is now okay, but at the same time, in Article 2, extend this set of possible building facilities very widely. The Minister reasoned, since we are only adding a new option with one alliance. That's not true. This is another manipulation, you have to look at this alliance from the point of view of the law, according to the Construction Law, to which this novel of yours refers. The Construction Law makes it very clear which facilities are in public use, which you now allow without any exception to build on this coastal land. These are catering facilities, hotel usages, business and administrative buildings, commercial buildings, transport buildings, communication buildings, and then we reach public areas such as the market, playground, recreational areas and, inter alia, parking areas. These items have been referred to by the Minister, if we are to give such a wide opportunity to marry, so that no playground will be released or any boatboat will be released. That's not true! If your agenda or purpose were to be honest, however, by pursuing some green areas on coastal land, that would be the way to write it. However, that the matter is even more controversial, which you have not mentioned, respected coalition colleagues, but that the facilities that are being built today as public-use objects can transform into private-owned objects very quickly over time. And if you want, Mr. Secretary has reasoned, yes, we prevent the construction of various private villas. Today, a accommodation facility, which you will allow with a new change on the coastal land, will become a private villa in time, in a year, two, three, or earlier. So you're substantiating an investor's qualification, if he's a public investor, he won't interfere with our water security area, but if he's a private investor, he's not okay. This does not drink water if I express myself in the light of today's point. And once again, if we had a sincere interest, the law would write down the possibility of building only some recreational green areas, not giving a wider lobby such as a hotel lobby, a guest lobby and so on. The agenda here is clear and if we are to prevent this, this amendment must be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Those of you who were present this morning from nine this morning, you know that we spent one part of the debate talking about whether the science doctors are credible or credible ministers. It is clear that such a debate is impossible to conclude. And that was my motive for going through the extra material. After these few hours, Mr President, all I can say is that what the four representatives of the four eminent water associations are, this is the Slovenian Water Protection Society, President Marjetka Levstek, Slovenian Committee of the International Association of Hydrogeologists, President of the Committee on Water Protection. Prof. Dr. Mihael Brenčič, Association of Leaders of Slovenia, President Lidija Globevnik, Global Partnership for Water, President Prof. Dr. Barbara Chenchur Curk, that really means what he holds for all the information available. And what did they write down? “ At the same time, we note that the bill still contains Article 2, which threatens coastal and water lands. [[…]] We note that the provision that allows the construction of public buildings in coastal areas under the law governing the construction of buildings is decisively extensive and places serious risks to the degradation of these lands and, as a consequence, to the pollution of surface and also of groundwater bodies, particularly where groundwater is supplied from surface water bodies. In doing so, we stress that the proposed amendments in Slovenia will start to apply the practice of restricting access to water as public goods. Signatories and signatories do not see any serious reasons for such a swift, short-term process, and also in this area a poorly scrutinised decision.” What they do, what the government should do is offer a hand of reconciliation. And it is not right that the hand of reconciliation, which allows for protection of water in this area; while we have water as a drinking good protected as a fundamental human right in this law, I mean the Constitution, while living in a time of environmental and climate crisis that is just going to be known in the waters, the right side of Parliament does not even recognise that we have an environmental and climate crisis – by the way, the Vatican admits it, but you cannot – experts, eminent doctors, eminent experts, who are not only valid in Slovenia, but their reputation is also internationally present, offer you a hand of reconciliation. This is how they write: “We are taking the initiative for an expert and public debate to answer the question, in the context of a comprehensive assessment of coastal land, which activities and consequently facilities are temporarily or permanently possible on certain coastal land”. This time frame of reconciliation means that, to the extent that it is really intended to take a step forward, respected colleagues and colleagues, while we are all aware that it is useful, if the money from the Water Fund is also used more broadly for the water field, to offer a hand to reach a professional social consensus in the area of land protection and water protection. I'm really asking you to accept this hand. Why this is necessary – because the water is also protected by the Constitution in our country and simply talk about eminent experts, what was the debate between 9th, 11th or 12th hours that they did not read the material, please kindly, so underestimating to the Slovenian profession we should not simply behave. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I call on you to accept this amendment, which deletes this harmful decision and to have a serious debate to be held by the Ministry, including stakeholders who have now been excluded, or, worse yet, to reject the law. Unfortunately, the wider use of the Water Fund will not be possible during this period. This is not a big step for humanity, but for Slovenia and the Slovenian Parliament, which is exactly divided in half or half as far as environmental policy is concerned, is an important step. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u177	Thank you very much. See, colleagues and colleagues, the new 37.a. actually opens the door for the privatisation of public space in coastal areas, so the amendment, which is an opposition one, is incorporated into the law by one of the security guards after whom the water consent to intervene in these coastal areas will not be given consent in cases where these interventions would mean restricting the general use of water. The amendment also deletes the third paragraph of Article 37, paragraph 1, which provides that construction of public-use facilities is permitted in water and coastal areas, in accordance with the law governing the construction of buildings. As we have already mentioned many times, these facilities include catering, business premises, ceremonial restaurants, buildings for various services, transport, parking places, communication and various infrastructures, from playgrounds, markets and so on. In short, it is a wide range of objects whose construction under the current law will be banned today. The adoption of the content in Article 2 of the Amendment Act will allow for all measures which will result in irreparable consequences of the state of surface waters in Slovenia. The bill actually increases the scope of possible interventions in coastal areas. And see, the general use of water basically means water for public good or for drinking and everything, especially for drinking water, to be preserved, and in particular to preserve one public space that we can all access for recreational, walking, sliding, swimming purposes, whatever else. One of the consequences of the bill's proposal will be that the number of interventions to coastal land will increase significantly and that this public space can or will consequently decrease significantly and access to it will change. Towards today’s accessibility, this will be significantly different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Who else then? [[…]] The port of the moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u179	Thank you very much. On the part of the party leading the government, which is in some way also the proposer of this law, we have heard in the debate earlier that wherever you go to neighbouring countries or Europe you drink a glass of water, you will find that it is not over Slovenian water. Even if you think so, it's not self-evident. I'm afraid that's not the case right now. Some 100,000 inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia drink challenging water. You can go to Anhovo. The last time I was there, we were talking if we were to meet at a coffee shop in a joke, and I said – this is allowed now if only water is allowed. They said -- yeah, it's a little more complicated here. And it wasn't a joke because there was once, recently, water flowing from the taps with pH drains from the washing machine, dirty with washing powder. I cannot understand how you, who say you are for pure drinking water, for Slovenia, but for nature you want to paint this Slovenian impeccable nature on your boards and so on, at the same time propose to Parliament a law where, among other things, it is proposed that water protection areas should start to be set up in buildings where dangerous substances are processed. You who have opposed, say, the construction of channel C-0 across the water protection area would now be able to build factories there with dangerous sewage, which can also enter the groundwater. And you know this is a one-time act, one accident happens – even, and the groundwater is gone! And there's a pollution that we've been cleaning up for decades. If I pull the analogy, the first term of the Janša government changed the fire safety legislation, the standards fell, and of course there was a fire at Vrhnika in Kemis, and there was once again this party, which was the loudest and most environmentally friendly and most judgmental party, who would not "like" do their job there. So we see now, you have some kind of blind beating of standards, some blind deregulation and construction in coastal areas. Fortunately, then, you ruled out pressure from the opposition, civil society and professions, so that we could understand each other so that we could place such objects in watertight areas. But still, here, in this amendment, which we are currently addressing, there are many unanswered questions, what exactly, what purpose, what conditions, what conditions, what could be put in coastal areas. The fact is that competence at government level is said by the Ministry of Environment and Space, transferred to the administrative level, to the Water Directorate, and that the proposal – as they say in the Water Directorate – who can build there, is transferred from the municipalities to individuals. This means that the number of initiatives will increase significantly, that the pressure on the Water Directorate will increase significantly and that there is likely to be a large proliferation of construction in these protected areas. In view of what my colleagues have said before me, we are facing a crisis that is not only abstractly climatic, we are facing a crisis of environmental degradation around us. And one of the most vulnerable points of this crisis is pure drinking water. I think it should be some kind of consensus that we have to accept, regardless of political color. It is pure drinking water, it is access to water, it is protection of water resources and it is ultimately protection of people and facilities from water. Floods, and so on, are already causing much damage to this country. This is also what we propose; whether this is deleted or whether the law is taken out of consideration and should be discussed with the expert. The Eco Circle has collected the signatures you have on the e-club, 37 pages, where you have, under this requirement, currently proposed in the opposition, signed virtually the entire environmental protection profession, environmental civil society and ultimately experts from the Faculty of Geodesy and so on. I will, of course, support this matter and oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group becomes irrelevant to this Article. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. (There were 36 votes in favour.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 82 Members present, 36 votes against 45. (There were 36 votes in favour.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u181	Thank you, President. In the SAB Group, of course, even now that these amendments are not adopted, we will not support this law. I am sure that, as in every marriage, there is a good solution, we have detected it, but it is crucial to us, whether we interfere or potentially undermine the quality of our drinking water in the future. Here we all like to talk about the fact that we have entered this new provision, the provision for the protection of clean drinking water in the Constitution. The fact is that the SAB party was the first to be signed under this proposal, and when we proposed it, of course, we were led primarily by the fact that it is such an important source, drinking water, that it must now be protected from possible future interventions. Constitutional protection, that a provision is enshrined in the Constitution, is intended precisely to ensure that any legal provision, any bill followed by such an entry, must be in accordance with the provision and in accordance with its spirit. And the spirit of this provision is to establish in this country a special, high way and regime for the protection of drinking water. Because it appears, as has been repeatedly said today, that this can be one of the key values for each country, including the European one, in the future. And everything we take in this national assembly must be subject to this constitutional decision and be protected. This law, although the most controversial provision has been withdrawn, is still not in the spirit of this constitutional decision. Therefore, in the SAB Group, as we say, we will vote against it, and at the same time, on our proposal for a constitutional indictment that is being prepared, we will also introduce a provision where the Constitutional Court, if the constitutional judgment of course is adopted, will be called upon to define this issue as well. For it is the Constitutional Court that, of course, will explain by its interpretation how wide the legislator can go and where the restrictions where the constitutional provision limits it. That's not how we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Edward Paulich on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u183	Thank you, President, for your word. At the stage of the adoption of this law or novelty, there was no adequate public hearing, that is a fact. The precautionary principle in accordance with the Water Directive has not been taken into account during the adoption phase of this novel. In the event of doubt, the benefits of water protection must prevail over all other benefits, and we have heard that the opposition, as well as the civil sphere, as well as the professional public, express doubts. And despite the fact that there is one good solution in this novel, a solution that expands the purpose of the use of the Water Fund, we cannot pass through this, another, in our opinion, disputed solution. For this reason, we absolutely will not support the proposal of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan jedan on behalf of the emissary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u185	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Even in the Group of Members, the Social Democrats oppose and we will not support, we will vote against this amendment of the law. Reasons are quite something; two technical. The first reason that the professional and other interested public were not really given the opportunity to participate in a high-quality public debate, however, in such an important law, which speaks of the protection of one of the most important natural treasures in Slovenia, should be. The second reason is also to some extent technical. You know the European Water Directives, too – I think that the latter of November 2020 – are driving everything that is adopted to increase water protection rather than reduce it. There is also a suspicion or likelihood that you are doing something on the government, which is contrary to what you accept at European Union level, and then you cook completely differently at home fire. Thirdly, the order of laws affecting water is completely wrong. The Ministry also replied in a written reply to us that it is preparing a law on public services in the field of governance. This is very important because this law would fully implement what we -- I think almost unanimously -- have adopted in this House, that is, the constitutional right that protects us, drinking water, and makes it a human fundamental right, and this law is not yet, but everything that is related to construction is constantly coming into this national assembly. Then the content: that in fact those who propose, because they are not here now, but those who support, in some way make a fool of the Slovenian profession, is unacceptable. These are people who know more about a particular question than we do sitting here. And if such a very uniform Slovenian profession invites us; please be careful, do not accept, allow us to debate, we are ready to engage constructively, but at least allow us to do so, and then push your head like an ostrich under these seats where you are sitting is simply unacceptable. Unacceptable! This is the kind of cattle that we expect to be saved from, as far as the man is concerned, and you don't listen there, and this is the kind of profession that is supposed to save us from economic activity, and it also has to save us in the field of protecting natural wealth. We, the Social Democrats, trust this profession. We want it to be loud when we like it or when we don't like it, and we need to do everything we can to listen to it. This is the only way that we, as a society, will develop in the direction in which we must, after all, develop, also because of our descendants. Therefore, we will vote against the Members and Members of the Social Democrats, and I really wish that if something has not already been adopted in this House that has been adopted in a number of European countries, then that we are in a time of environmental and climate crisis in order to at least protect water at the operational level. So we don't accept this bad marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Port of the Moon on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We will also vote against this law in Levica. First, because it is unconstitutional, it is contrary to the constitutional right to clean drinking water. Secondly, because it is contrary to European directives, which say that protection or protection of water resources must be protected or enhanced, not affected, as you do. And thirdly, because everyone who knows anything about the protection of water resources and the placement of facilities into space has been declared against this law. In a debate that looked something like this, I have heard countless good reasons why I should vote against this law, but I have not heard any good argument as to why I should vote in favour of this law. And I would like us to break this practice once, to adopt some laws that are blind, harmful, deregulation, which is what happens when something goes wrong, when you poison some water source or something like that, but we will see; first, a little cynicism from this problem, and then this blind perversion. You can't do that. You can't do that. I am against this law and against the way this law ever happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-30-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 38. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 67th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. I'm informing you that the 68th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly will begin in 15 minutes, at 4:50 p.m.
