ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franc Jurša, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Bojana Mursich, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Violeta Tomić from 9 a.m. to 13 p.m., mag. Dušan Verbič, Nick Prebil from 9:00 to 12:30, mag. Meira Hot by 11:00 and Jani Möderndorfer. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the gradual closure of the poultry and the developmental restructuring of the region within the framework of the restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Blaž Kosorok, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. For the pay phone, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members! In particular, the proposed law aims at completing the unexploited works under the Gradual Closure Programme, such as the renewal of the Hrastnik-Lisa Road, the rehabilitation of plasmid areas, the restoration of other roads, the implementation or completion of the administrative procedures provided for by the Mining Act to issue decisions following the termination of the rights and obligations of the mining right holder. Furthermore, the objectives of the law are: to carry out a monitoring of the maintenance and repair of damage on all workspaces, on facilities up to successfully carried out activities from the closure process, to maintain the assets of RTH until its sale, to carry out activities for the definitive liquidation of the company after the settlement of all liabilities. By amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of RTH, new deadlines are laid down for the implementation of physical works and administrative procedures, which are to be completed by the end of 2023. RTH in liquidation thus obtains a formal basis for carrying out all the activities necessary to complete the procedures for leaving the mine. The resources to be allocated by the State to finance activities under this Act are not State aid, as the remediation of degraded areas is continuing and a new mine is not opening. The values of individual projects not performed under the phasing-in programme 2019-2020 are based on signed contracts that have already been drawn up on the basis of the conduct of the selection of operators in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, taking into account the normal pace of work, without taking into account the rise in the prices for the implementation of such services. The programme shall cover the implementation and financing of works throughout the programming period and shall be provided in the budgets for 2022, 2023 and 2024. In line with this programme, our ministry will provide €8.9 million of budget resources to finance the works and to pay the fixed costs arising from the mine not yet closed. The estimated value of the Gradual Closure Programme of Trbovlje-Hrastnik for the period 2022-2023 is EUR 11 million 675 thousand. Of this, funds from our country's budget amounting to 8 million 900. The funds will be earmarked in 2022 at €4 million, €4 million in 2023 at 4 million and €200,000 at the end of 2023. The rest of the difference will be covered by RTH from its own resources, i.e. the disposal of assets. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the amendment of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Blaž Kosorok, stressed that RTH had carried out the rehabilitation of Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik's premises under the law on progressive closure of RTH, which was formally consumed at the end of 2020. Works that were not completed during the programming period exceeded the capacity to finance the implementation of closures from RTH’s own resources. In view of the fact that the works were not completed, it was also not possible to complete or complete all administrative procedures prior to the issuance of decisions on termination of rights and obligations. The full implementation of the Gradual Closure Programme of Trbovlje-Hrastnik 2019-2020 is financed by the funds obtained by the company from the divestment of its assets and it has already been demonstrated in the programme that the liquidation mass of the company will not be sufficient to finance all parts. He pointed out that the main objectives of the draft law, the completion of the unexploded works under the 2019-2020 Gradual Closure Programme, were to be established on the basis of deadlines for the implementation of the financial works and administrative procedures to be completed by 2023. The estimated value of the mine closure restructuring programme for the period 2022-2023 is EUR 11.6 million. Of this, payments from the state budget amounting to EUR 8.9 million are foreseen. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the law on the gradual closure of RTH was formally applicable because it had never been expressly repealed, but all the deadlines for the implementation of the works expired in December 2019 and for the implementation of administrative procedures in December 2020. Thus, the substantive provisions of the law have been exhausted, which means that the regulatory regime has been extinguished. The law has therefore ceased to apply informally and therefore the amendment is unattainable. In view of the fact that the law whose provisions are exhausted should no longer be in force, it appears that to a certain extent it is still being implemented, the legislative and legal service of the proposer has called for a further explanation in its opinion on this proposal. After a lengthy discussion, the rapporteur was also asked a few questions by State Secretary Blaž Kosorok. After a full discussion, the Committee voted and adopted the law with 16 votes in favour and no objection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u6	The gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine began in 2000 and the first closure deadline was at the end of 2015. The deadline was subsequently extended until the end of December 2018 and by the last law adopted in December 2018 until the end of 2020. At that time, the law was passed just before the plantation, since otherwise all closures would have been abandoned and therefore no liquidation procedure could be carried out. RTH therefore received €3.1 million from the state budget. It was the remaining part of the funds approved for the period 2010 to 2018 by a decision on State aid for closure measures, which had not been fully used until then. Today's novelty is moving towards the end of 2023. It appeared that closing works were not completed in the last programming period until the end of 2020 and also exceeded the ability to finance implementation from RTH's own resources. Since the work was not completed, it was not possible to carry out all administrative procedures before the decision was taken after the termination of the rights and obligations. The evaluation of the value of the programme for the period 2020-2023 is EUR 11.6 million. Of these, State resources amount to 8.9 million. We will support the amendment of the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We note, however, that this law should not be amended or supplemented twice in this mandate if the National Assembly of February or March 2018, at the time of the Cerarje government, supported by a law that was then introduced into the legislative procedure by a group of Members with the first signed by our former colleague Vojko Shergan from SMC. Her colleague had already proposed that the implementation of the incarceration works should be extended until 2023. The amendments also referred to monitoring, which is not provided for in this applicable law. The total state aid for closing works from 2000 to 2018 was set at EUR 268 million, consumption was lower, 233 million. That is why our colleague suggested that 8.3 million more be spent on the rest of the work. Do you know the difference between the law and the law that we are considering today? Only at the level of the envisaged state funds, for the fights of €600,000. Therefore, we were not even surprised when it was already concluded that RTH did not have sufficient resources to complete all the works. Even today, we cannot believe how irresponsible it was for some of the Members who are still sitting in the National Assembly in 2018 when they caused the incoherence of the mother's working body, which should deal with the law. Our fellow Soldiers at the time saw populism and blackmail for more state money for Zasavje. This time, too, we were able to listen to the evidence that the mine had been closing for too long and that too much money had been spent, looking for responsibility for it, and so forth. To critics and skeptics as born Ripper, I answer that all the works that RTH still has to do allow safe closure of caves and that the consequences of mining both below the surface and on the surface must be removed to this extent so that they do not endanger the health and life of the people living in these degraded areas. In addition, it is necessary to prevent further damage to the facilities and the funds can also be allocated to the Hrastnik-Lesha road, which runs through land owned by RTH. Restoration and regulation of ownership of this road are essential for obtaining a building permit for the construction of the home of older citizens in Hrastnik. We will therefore support the bill. We regret, however, that the Ministry has also not been in favour of certain other solutions contained in the 2018 law. This also provided for the monitoring of the state of saved areas and cave facilities and the revitalization of the mining heritage. We also note that without monitoring it will not be possible to determine how the terrain behaves and whether it poses a risk to human health or life, transport, facilities and the environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u8	Dear Vice President, all present! With a referendum decision more than 20 years ago not to build a thermoelectric Trbovlje 3, the decision to close the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine fell. The so - called Sulphur Law has often been amended, modified, and complemented, and, above all, the closing time has been extended. This was due to insufficient financial resources for the closure of Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik from its own resources. For Slovenians, it is typical, especially as regards the deal, that it all begins and ends with money. This is not the case since the full implementation of the Gradual Closure Programme by 2020 was financed by the disposal of its assets. In Slovenia, there is already some sort of folklore that if we don't do something, we will raise our hands and sell for change to wealthy foreigners. What else is our origin in this small Slovenian space, I ask you. The proposed law extends the deadline for closing closures until the end of 2023. During this period, the company is expected to complete procedures for the complete and permanent abandonment of mining works where it once acquired brown coal and lignite and the liquidation process. In principle, the law is good, but it also has some shortcomings or ambiguities. It seems to us that we do not have the proposed closure plan, as we would expect. We don't even know what works have been left unfinished. In the Slovenian National Party, we were also disturbed by the fact that it is not specifically stated why the envisaged works could not be carried out and, above all, who is the one responsible for this in the first place. We wish that 2023 is indeed the last, final date, that we will not sit together again in two years and postpone the date to 2025 or later.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you again, Madam Vice President, for the floor. Dear fellows and fellows! Position of the SDS Group of Members. RTH carried out the rehabilitation of the mining area of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine under the law on the gradual closure of RTH, which was formally consumed in 2020. Work has not been completed during the programming period but has exceeded the capacity to finance the implementation of closures from RTH’s own resources. In view of the fact that the works were not completed, it was also not possible to complete or complete all administrative procedures prior to the issuance of provisions on termination of rights and obligations. The full implementation of the Gradual Closure Programme of Trbovlje-Hrastnik 2019-2020 was financed by the funds acquired by RTH by the divestment of its assets. However, the programme already pointed out that the liquidation weight of the company would not be sufficient to finance all parts. The main objectives of the proposal for a law on the completion of work not carried out under the phasing-in programme 2019-2020 shall be laid down on the basis of the deadlines for the implementation of the financial works under administrative procedures to be completed by 2023. The estimated value of the Gradual Closure Programmes of Trbovlje-Hrastnik 2022-2023 covers EUR 11.6 million. Of this, payments from the state budget amounting to EUR 8.9 million are foreseen. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group. Above all, we are pleased to see that this also saves the Hrastnik-Leša road, which is a prerequisite for issuing a building permit for the construction of the home of the elderly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! We can hope that this is the last extension of the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. It's been dragging for 21 years. We can hope, but of course there is no guarantee. For example, the closure of the Zagorje Mine took more than 25 years and some things are still not arranged. In this saga of closing the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine, we experienced quite a few milestones that promised an end. The year 2012 is expected to be crucial as the last year of coal mining, and 2015, when the last action was announced again and the end of 2018, the liquidation of 2020. Although the closure has cost around €250 million so far, the assessment of the necessary resources for the final action has obviously been completely flawed, otherwise in 2018 we would not have provided another 3 million, and today we are providing more than 11 and a half million for a period of two years, of which almost 9 million from the state budget. Otherwise, I don't know why the government picked on this law for over a year because the law in force expired at the end of last year. As long as this drags on, more costs are incurred. This is also confirmed by this final assessment. What the Sasavcans are alerting us to all the time of mine closure is the concern about the state of the environment at a time after the final closure. So far, so little or nothing has been done here. There is not even a plan for real monitoring on degraded areas, let alone money provided and a decision on who will carry out this monitoring. Whoever lives in such an area knows what changes in nature occur on the surfaces beneath which mining takes place. Not only are these surfaces not suitable for construction, but these surfaces often change the relief uncontrolledly, they can also be potentially dangerous. In Zagorje near Savi, where the mine has been closed for some time, we note the unresolved issue of monitoring, the same in Trbovje and Hrastnik. As soon as possible, it is necessary to establish a society that will do so at the level of all countries, and to create a legal basis for this as soon as possible. It is not right that we have a machete-level attitude towards former mining areas. These areas have paid a high tax to society, people have the right to live in at least the same conditions as all other citizens. If after the liquidation of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, the company that will take care of monitoring at national level will grow on the legacy, it will be a good solution. There is still much knowledge and experience in Zasavje, both in mining and in recovery after mining has ceased. Besides, I can't get past the fact that this government is legally entangled from marriage to marriage. For example, this law formally extinguished the end of last year. Formally, the law is thus unattainable for any interference. With some kind of legal exercise, however, the law will remain alive. Because this law was fortunate that it was not covered by Simic’s beach of breaking the laws. This just confirms that this government interferes with legislation headlessly and mostly on the mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Act on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine should be adopted as some of the works already defined and evaluated in the RTH 2019-2020 Gradual Closure Programme and urgently needed to be carried out in order to implement the recovery of the acquisition space and to address the consequences of exploitation have not been completed. At the Ministry, they prepared a legal content that follows the objectives of completing the outstanding works under the RTH 2019-2020 Gradual Closure Programme and Annex 1 to that Act: the implementation or completion of the administrative procedures provided for by the Mining Act to issue a decision on the termination of the rights and obligations of the mining right holder for exploitation; the monitoring and maintenance and repair of damage on sanitary areas and facilities; and the implementation of activities for the definitive liquidation of the company after all obligations have been settled. The solutions to the proposed changes go in the direction of establishing new deadlines for the execution of physical works and administrative procedures to be completed by the end of 2023. Among other things, the legal solutions are that the Ministry of Infrastructure will provide €8.9 million of budget resources under the programme to finance the works and to pay the fixed costs arising from the mine not yet closed and deleted from the mining book. The legislative proposal was supported by the competent commission of the State Council, and the objectives and solutions of the law were recognized as necessary and necessary in the Group of Social Democrats. It is not just closure, liquidation, and regular monitoring is important. At this point, we agree with the State Council's conclusion and their initiative that the Government will adopt an appropriate systemic solution as soon as possible, as well as a decision on the head office of the company, which will monitor all degraded areas due to past mining, not only in Zasavje, but throughout Slovenia. We will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Good morning! Everything shows that only one activity is profitable in the mining industry – the closure of mines. The Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine has been closing for 20 years, ahead of us, I think, the seventh extension, the second in this mandate and the seventh confirmed set of donated public funds for this purpose. Together, in these good 20 years, almost a quarter of a billion euro has been swallowed by a pond of trebwell and oak mines. Colleagues and colleagues, the matter is, in fact, very clear. In Levica, delaying the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is seen exclusively as a very handy business for the price of the environment, the development of local communities and the health and social security of Trboveljčany and Hrastničany. The actual purpose of the law, i.e. the restructuring of the region, is of secondary importance in this deck, but I will come to that. First to the current law. The mine is closed, the official purpose of the law or its extension is tripled. The liquidation of the company, which means the formal closure of the company, the removal from the register and everything that is formally necessary. Then the remediation of degraded areas, which in the case of both environmental and social degradation of the environment is crucial. Trbovlje and Hrastnik are cities that are intertwined in their underground with kilometres, hundreds of kilometres of mines, and areas above them are also degraded and useless for infrastructure or any use of citizens and citizens. Of course, the third part is the restructuring of the region, something after mining. In Trbovjevi, what did this hand, which fed the region, which cared for the social security of the people, for the employment of the people, dry up? Trbovlje and Hrastnik are still where they are, we find after 20 years of closure and a quarter of a billion euros. The mining areas are still degraded, the local communities are unable to do anything about them, because the Ministry of the Environment, which is supposed to keep abreast of this, is awaiting the completion of the closure, which is under the supervision of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik is still not liquidated, in the meantime works and is financed by some strange legal limb, unlawfully, and the National Assembly is now expected to devote an additional 8 million to inefficiency on the part of both the Zasavska energy and its clicks as on the Government's website, but this is the last time. All it shows is that this story has only one winner – the former director of the company, who received a prize in the form of a seat at the head of the Slovenian state holding company with the previous failed closure episode, which was “only” 3 million. So this happens to you, if you are close to John Janša, you are one of the thousands of 354 who get a better job for their inefficiency. The worst thing is to do things the same way and hope for a different result, said Einstein. And now we have before us a seven or eight copy-paste proposal to extend the closure of a mine that weighs 8 million. All the same as before, only this time government rudeness and exploitation of the already degraded local community go a step further. NSI, which this time, through the Ministry of Infrastructure, is guarding the mining sector, has opposed this same law in its previous term or three years ago, including the minister who is now the architect of this law. What the Government does not say, however, is that by adopting this law it conditiones the construction of the home of the elderly in Hrastnik. So if we don't put 8 million into closing the mine, there won't be 4 or 5 million to build the old people's home that Hrastnik urgently needs. 200 metres of macadam road is questioned, colleagues and colleagues. Conditioning the construction of the urgently needed house of elders in Hrastnik by adopting this 8 million-dollar law, without knowing how much will go into the pocket, is rude and condemned in Levica. We will not support the exploitation, exhaustion of Zasavje in Levika. A quarter of a billion, as far as the mine has already received, should be recognized in public infrastructure, should be recognized in the well-being of the people in the region, and only a handful of them have provided prosperity in 20 years. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine lays down new deadlines for the implementation of physical and administrative procedures for the complete and permanent abandonment of mining works to be carried out by Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik. The deadline for the completion of all closures, the completion of environmental recovery and the submission of an application for a decision on the termination of rights and obligations of holders of mining rights shall be extended until the end of 2022 and for the execution of a decision on the abolition of rights and obligations and liquidation. 12. 2023. Thus, the proposal of the law once again proposes to extend the deadlines for the complete and permanent cessation of mining and the liquidation of Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik because all the necessary work on the ground due to unforeseen circumstances such as crawling, hitting the ground, building the road failed to be completed in time. As a result, it was not possible to complete administrative procedures for the cessation of mining under the law governing mining. According to Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik’s assessment, additional EUR 8.9 million should be provided from the State budget for the completion of the works under the Gradual Closure Programme of Trbovlje-Hrastnik for the period 2019-2020 and the remaining resources will be provided by Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik for the sale of its assets. The work will therefore be carried out under the closure programme of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine for the period 2021-2023, which will be adopted by the Government within one month of the entry into force of this Act, with the applicant stressing in particular that it is the same work as already the subject of the programme for the period 2019-2020. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the developmental restructuring of the region. However, we expect that the remedial works and administrative procedures by the end of 2023 will be successfully completed and we will thus effectively witness the liquidation of Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik and thus the final closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u20	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine was launched in 2000 under the Act on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region by gradual closure. The closure took place in several stages. In the closure plan, the Republic of Slovenia notified 31 December 2015 as the deadline for the closure of the mine. That the date has been set too optimistly, we also see again the proposal for a law before us today, which we are considering for the second time in this mandate. However, there was an important difference. If there is a bill in the bill that we confirmed at the time of the Ministry of Magi. Alenka Bratušek, simply taking care of the legal basis for the use of funds not yet used, this time new funds amounting to EUR 11 million for the closure and restructuring of the region. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia will contribute to this. We do not challenge the need for these funds, but we expect them to be used effectively and primarily on purpose. Given that the issue is inseparably linked to human health and safety, something else would be unheard of. Given the shortness and relative simplicity of the law, many questions are raised at the time of its review. Many have also been reminded by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. For example, it has been pointed out that deadlines for the execution of physical works and administrative procedures have expired since the end of 2020. The main question raised in this regard is why some ministries have waited so long and what and on what grounds has happened in 2021 at all, so which procedures have been carried out in the last year and what circumstances have affected the delay in their implementation. At the same time, the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that the applicants should be justified on why the work and procedures, in their view, will be completed within the new deadlines. We believe that the Secretary of State, Mr Kosorok, did not give entirely satisfactory answers in this regard at the meeting of his mother's working body. We are also concerned that a monitoring agreement has not yet been reached in the event of developments related to the closure of mines. So the question remains, Who and how will care for the consequences of centuries of long excavations that will take place for a long time. The final agreement and the answer are not only important for the region covered by this law, but also for the Sava region and some others. We have already warned at the committee's meeting that the event in Zasavje has given a kind of warning as to what all of Slovenia is waiting for when we get out of coal in that area. This event clearly illustrates how complex and complex processes are involved in the energy, environmental, economic and social restructuring of the regions. If we know how much greater the dimension of mining and the amount of coal mined goes to Coal Velenje, then the situation with the closure of the RTH mine cannot inspire us with excessive optimism. Nevertheless, we hope that the country has already learned much and that things will go a little smoother there. We will not oppose the proposal for a law in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine in liquidation is governed by the relevant law of 2000, which was subsequently supplemented several times. Today is the subject law again on our benches. The main objective of this novelty is to complete the work not yet carried out under the 2019-2020 Gradual Closure Programme, such as road renewal, the rehabilitation of the acquisition space, the cost of control and maintenance of the property and the execution or completion of the administrative procedures provided for by the Mining Act. Otherwise, the RTH 2019-2020 phase-in programme already pointed out that the liquidation weight of the company would not be sufficient to finance all the necessary works. The proposal therefore lays down new deadlines for the implementation of physical and administrative procedures for the complete and permanent abandonment of mining works to be carried out by RTH. The deadline for the completion of all closures, the completion of environmental recovery and the submission of an application for a decision on the cessation of mining rights and the obligations of the mining right holder shall be extended until the end of 2022. By extending the deadline, the timeliness and legality of the procedures for the complete and permanent abandonment of mining works and liquidation procedures shall be ensured. In order to carry out the procedure for issuing a decision on termination of rights and obligations and liquidation, the date shall be 31. 12. 2023. On the basis of today's amendment, a new two-year mine closure programme will be prepared for the period 2021-2023 and for the completion of the unrealised works 2022-2023 of the 2019-2020 programme. The programme will be adopted within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. The estimated value of the Gradual Closure Programme of the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine in liquidation for the period 2021-2023 is EUR 11 million 675 000, of which EUR 8 million 900 000 will have to be provided from the budget. The remaining resources will be derived from RTH’s own resources, i.e. from the sale of the company’s remaining assets. I am sure that this is also the last necessary amendment of the law and work will be completed within the deadlines foreseen. Complete surface rehabilitation is also a condition for European funding for other planned projects in these areas. In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a gas-depletion law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure Blaž Kosorok.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you again for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on gas supply, these are gases from a related transmission and distribution system. The legal regulation of the gas supply sector in our country is entirely based on the legal regulation of this area in the European Union. This Regulation is based on Directive 2009/73 on the common rules of the internal market in natural gas and supplementing it with Directive 2019/692 of 17 April 2019. However, both Directives have already been transposed into our legal order by the Energy Act EZ-1, supplementing EZ-1C. The energy law in addition to gas regulates several areas and has become very extensive and uncontrollable over the years. At the same time, the transposition of the directives in the Fit for 55 package into specific areas such as efficient use, promotion of renewable energy use and supply of electricity, including natural gas supply or new gas supply, is being carried into a separate law. As early as 2020, with the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Act, the field of efficient energy use was transferred, and by the adoption of the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources in 2021. Following the adoption of the Act on Gas Supply, the procedure for the division of the Energy Act will continue with the adoption of the Law on Heat Supply from Distribution Systems and will end or end with the adoption of the Energy Policy Act. It is therefore a very extensive, coordinated project for the division of the Energy Law and for the simultaneous transposition of several new directives. The Gas Supply Act summarises the basic structure of the existing law or existing, current regulation of natural gas in the Energy Act. The bill therefore mainly contains the same provisions. The existing legislation is complemented by a proposal for a law on individual issues, which have been shown to have been poorly regulated so far. In addition, the new law makes it clear that the legal regime applies to all gases transferred through the system and which may form a mixture of renewable and fossil gases, the bulk of which is methane today. The draft law complements the definitions of terms with new concepts relating to the manufacturer and the acquisition of gas into the system, which is necessary in order to regulate the rules on the integration of gases from renewable sources into distribution systems. Some provisions relating to the conditions of access of the gas manufacturer to the system are new, mainly at the distribution level. In connection with the gas takeover into the gas system from gas producers, the legal arrangements of the balance sheet scheme shall be supplemented by the obligation for the takeover sites to be included in the balance sheet on the basis of the open contract concluded. The bill introduces a new concept, such as crisis gas, solidarity gas. They are both intended to compensate the gas system. Crisis gas is provided by limiting the supply of domestic customers and solidarity gas can be purchased by the country under the solidarity aid mechanism between neighbouring EU countries on the basis of specific so-called bilateral agreements. Dear Members, the adoption of the law is essential in terms of maintaining and developing a well-functioning internal energy market. I hope and believe that it deserves broad support in the context of the ongoing legislative treatment. On the basis of a separate law on gas supply, it is estimated that it will also be easier to implement the regulatory and professional tasks of public administration in this area and faster transposition, bringing national legislation into line with European legislation on a case-by-case basis. I'd like to thank you in this place. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Bojan Podkrodsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u26	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the proposal for a Gas Supply Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure Blaž Kosorok pointed out that the main reason for the law to be drawn up is the distribution of the Energy Law and the transfer of the content of gas supply to a separate law. The proposal for a law assumes the basic structure of the area of the current introduction of natural gas in the Energy Act and therefore mainly contains the same provisions. The existing legislation is complemented by specific issues that have proved to be poorly regulated. In addition, the new law makes it clear that the legal regime applies only to gases transferred through the system and which may form a mixture of renewable and fossil gases, the main proportion of which is methane today. The novelty of the bill is also the obligation of system operators to obtain an adjustment plan for the collection of gases from renewable sources into a system containing analysis of the potential and interest of the production of renewable or non-fossil gases in the wider area of the gas pipeline system, the necessary technical adjustments to the renewable gas system and the measures to be implemented. A number of innovations also include a chapter on ensuring security of supply, which sets out how to implement measures in Slovenia in the event of the activation of a solidarity aid mechanism between Member States in the event of major gas supply disruptions. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that most of their comments were intended for greater clarity and clarity and internal consistency of the bill and some comments were of a legal system nature. It pointed out that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups remove most of the concerns expressed. In the short discussion, there were no objections to the content of the bill, but among other things the current case was highlighted when one of the traders suddenly canceled the electricity supply at the beginning of the following year. Such cases could be repeated, not only in the supply of electricity, but also in the supply of gas or other energy. The view was expressed that in such cases consumers should be more protected and that a longer notice period should be laid down by law to allow customers sufficient time to replace the supplier. In this regard, the Secretary of State said that the reasons for the particular case of a disruption of supply by one of the suppliers did not know and did not want to comment, since in this case it was the decision of an individual entity to which the State had no influence. In connection with this event, however, the Government requested SDH to report on why this business decision had taken place, particularly why customers had not been informed and allowed more time to replace the supplier. He also pointed out that if certain customers failed to conclude a contract with another customer, there was an emergency supply mechanism that prevented consumers from losing an electric supplier. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a larger number of amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u28	All in attendance, all in attendance! At present, the area of natural gas supply is still regulated by a very large energy law. According to the new law, this will be a separate law that will make public administration's tasks easier to carry out. Nevertheless, some common energy issues will continue to be regulated by the provisions of the umbrella law. The purpose of the law is still competitive, safe, reliable and affordable gas supply. We must take into account the public interest of reliable gas supply and the principle of sustainable development. In any case, it is also important to mention the other objectives set out below. These include the effective provision of final customers' rights, the protection of the rights of domestic customers, the functioning of wholesale and retail markets, reliable gas supply, the decarbonisation of gas supply and other objectives. Among the principles, access to the network is certainly important in order to promote the integration of renewable energy sources as much as possible. The latter, the principle of solidarity in providing assistance to other EU Member States in the event of disruption of natural gas supply, seems particularly appropriate to me. Slovenia has no own resources and is still dependent on imports from neighbouring Austria, Croatia and Italy. Compared with other EU Member States, we also have a small share of natural gas consumption, as far as domestic customers are concerned, of less than 30%. The largest natural gas user is our industry, so to speak. The fact is that the price of natural gas is not regulated and is created free on the market. Despite our smallness, Slovenian customers are allowed to deliver at competitive prices, which we warmly welcome. Among other things, the proposal of the law provides that gas is to be taken into the system through a separate measuring point at an hourly level. It also extends to all types of gases, including hydrogen. The news is also crisis gas management, which occurs as a result of a reduction or interruption in gas supply. The law will undoubtedly have positive effects on the economy, the social sector, the further development of the transmission and distribution system. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that, according to the new one, it will be good for the protection and protection of the most vulnerable customers, which I believe are increasingly high, even in this energy crisis, when the prices of energy and other living needs are markedly high.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you, Vice President, once again for your word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a gas supply law at second reading. The main reason for drafting the law is the distribution of the Energy Act and the transfer of the gas supply content into a separate law. The proposal for a law summarises the basic structure of the current regulation of natural gas in the Energy Act and therefore most also contain the same provisions. The existing legislation is complemented by specific issues that have proved to be poorly regulated. In addition, the new law makes it clear that the legal regime applies to all gases transferred through the system that can form a mixture of renewable and fossil gases, the bulk of which is methane today. The new draft law also requires system operators to draw up a plan of adaptation for the collection of gases from renewable sources into a system containing analyses of potential and interesting production of renewable or fossil gases in the wider area of the pipeline system, necessary technical adjustments to the renewable gas collection system and the measures to be implemented. A number of innovations also include a chapter on ensuring security of supply, which sets out how to implement measures in Slovenia in the event of the activation of a solidarity aid mechanism between Member States in case of several gas supply disruptions. In the parliamentary group, we will unanimously support the draft law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State! The Gas Supply Act is such that we assess that there are no disputed solutions, and that is why we do not oppose it by the Social Democrats. What we have pointed out on the committee responsible for this law is the following. It is precisely in this law that it has shown how, in fact, before the elections, individual parties make empty promises, promises that there are too many laws, too many decrees, too many regulations and that they will reduce them during their rule. First of all, before this national assembly, it is necessary to say that, according to the number of laws and other legal acts, we do not deviate from other countries and that is what lawyers on the left and on the right identify. This specific law increases the number of laws, but we accept the arguments of the competent ministry that this is necessary and necessary because of the transparency of this legislation, and that is why we do not oppose it. But this is all we warn you: not to make empty promises before the elections. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you, again, for your word. Nicely greeted! The area of supply of natural gas and other gases transferred through pipeline networks is transferred by this proposal from the Common Energy Law into a stand-alone law. The proposal mainly contains substantively the same provisions and complements existing legislation with the regulation of individual issues which have been shown to be poorly regulated. The area of natural gas supply at legal level includes rules for the functioning of the natural gas market, which includes activities for the production, transmission, distribution, storage and supply of natural gas. The protection of the rights of final customers and users of the natural gas system, the means and modalities of the implementation of economic public services in the field of natural gas transmission and distribution and the rules for achieving reliable natural gas supply are also being regulated. The proposal sets out in more detail the activities of the gas economy and extends the use to all types of gases, including hydrogen, where they are technically safe to take into the system. It is a new obligation for system operators to draw up an adjustment plan for the collection of gases from renewable sources into the system. Most of the innovations include a chapter on ensuring security of supply, which sets out how to implement measures under the solidarity aid mechanism between Member States in the event of gas supply disruptions. The draft law provides for a way of balancing the gas system and managing the crisis gas, including the way in which the price of that gas is developed. If the gas supply situation deteriorates so that the supply of protected customers — mostly domestic customers — is at risk, the Member State of the European Union may request assistance and a solidarity offer for gas from the neighbouring Member States. In the event of a decision to purchase solidarity gas, the purchase and financial transactions of the transmission system operator will be made through a special trust account. However, certain provisions of the Energy Act governing common energy issues such as energy policy provisions, the Energy Agency, energy inspection, energy infrastructure and specific provisions on energy operators will continue to apply to gas supply. Since Slovenia does not have its own natural gas resources, it can only supply gas through transmission systems from neighbouring countries. Therefore, the interconnection of the gas network with neighbouring countries and non-discriminatory access to connecting import capacities are essential for the efficient functioning of the gas market in Slovenia. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are convinced that the proposal for a stand-alone gas supply law is a good upgrade to the previous common energy law and will also legally ensure the effective functioning of the gas market in Slovenia. For all of this, the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a gas supply law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a gas supply law that will regulate the gas supply sector in our country independently. In particular, natural gas is considered to be an energy source on which much of our economy depends, and its use is also quite widespread in households. The proposal for a law is based on the existing provisions of the Energy Act, which is why the majority of the provisions currently in force are transposed from it. The new law deals only with issues that have been shown to be deficient in the past. The most recent developments relate to part of the law governing the security of gas supply. This part specifies the course of crisis management and the price-setting system in the event of a crisis. In this context, the draft law clearly provides for a way of balancing the gas system. Slovenia does not have a gas warehouse in its territory and is therefore entirely dependent on the gas that suppliers are able to supply. At the same time, the law redefines the obligations of balance-sheet operators and provides for a way of implementing measures under the solidarity aid mechanism between Member States in the event of serious gas supply disruptions. As they point out at the Ministry, the likelihood that a solidarity mechanism will actually be activated is very low. Nevertheless, in our Group of Members, we believe that during the epidemic, we have all received a concrete lesson in how important it is to be prepared for crisis situations before they really do. We therefore welcome the introduction of such solidarity interstate mechanisms, which in our view are the only way to ensure, in the event of a crisis, a clear, solidarity and fair system of operation of individual entities in the system. We are convinced that the law offers a clear and structured path to ensuring competitive, safe, reliable and affordable gas supply. We also believe that the provisions introduced by the new gas supply law will help to ensure effective care, which is undoubtedly of public interest. In doing so, it is particularly important to stress the fact that the law follows the principles of sustainable development. On the basis of the above facts, we will support the proposal for a gas supply law in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u38	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on gas supply. This is a law that will emerge from the elimination of gas supply from a very large, in fact too extensive of the Energy Act. We immediately welcomed this breakdown because the fact that the Energy Act was poorly transparent due to its substantive scope and the treatment of many areas. The proposal for a law complements the existing legal regime on natural gas mainly in the work relating to measures to ensure reliable care, for example the way in which solidarity measures for assistance between the Member States of the European Union are implemented. This is very important in view of the times in which we live. It also applies as one of the most important aspects to mention the fact that the scope of the law extends to all gases transferred via pipeline networks, including hydrogen. In the future, hydrogen will certainly be one of the most important applications, so all the bases that will allow investment in networks and the expansion of hydrogen production capacities are welcome. When we review the data for 2020, we can see that we were dominated by oil products with a 29% share, followed by nuclear energy representing one quarter, that is 25%, and renewable energy reached 19%, coal 16%, and natural gas was the last of 11%. This somehow also corresponds to the fact that the Slovenian natural gas market is one of the smallest in Europe. The main objective for Slovenia is certainly a significant increase in energy from renewable energy sources, but one of the more important roles will, of course, have natural gas at the time of transition to a low-carbon society. Given that fossil fuels are considered not only the most efficient, i.e. with extremely high energy efficiency, but also the purest and least carbon footprint, the promotion of the use of this gas is certainly among the important tasks in the effort to move to a low-carbon society as soon as possible. This must rise to the fullest extent possible from other environmentally harmful fossil fuels. If we add the hydrogen mentioned above to the natural gas, this gas becomes even more acceptable. We must therefore be aware that in Slovenia we import €4 billion of fossil fuels annually. The opportunities associated with the decarbonisation of society are so numerous and diverse and represent a developmental breakthrough potential for the country. As a society, we must therefore strive for the accelerated development of new, green technologies and their introduction. That is why we also need a strong and stable transmission and distribution network. We need creators, developers and providers of modern services and solutions in connection with digitisation and IT. The final customer, i.e. the user, must be placed at the forefront. A high-quality user experience will have to be ensured, allowing the final customer to participate fully in production and consumption. Only in this way will we remove the obstacles to putting new infrastructure into space, and only by doing so will we, as a company, overcome the resistance that emerges from the installation of the necessary infrastructure. We will not oppose the bill in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. I see that there is no colleague of Hršak, so I am concluding the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law on debirocratisation within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Katji Triller Vrtovec, State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and honourable Members! The existence of the need to initiate the process of demobilization in Slovenia is clear. According to international indicators, we are at the weight of regulatory and administrative burdens in the last quarter of the countries in the world. Therefore, on the basis of the commitments made in the Coalition Treaty, the Strategic Council for Debarcation was established, which, in cooperation with the ministries, drafted a proposal for a law before you. The package method of preparing simplifications in a state administration where several different laws change with one roof law is only possible. Debirocraticism is a process that will not end with the adoption of this law, but will only start well. In the first legislative package, we have thus only been able to include some of the many proposals that the Strategic Council for Debarcation receives from individuals, economies and local communities. The other proposals come in line in the following de-de-irocratic packages. The concerns raised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly regarding the establishment of the new official register were answered in writing. If, in the debate on the amendment proposal to article 44 of the bill, certain concerns remain to be raised, I will answer this in the debate itself. However, if the proposed amendment to Article 44 of the draft law was adopted and no official register was established, let me just stress that the situation of the acquis will remain the way it is. This means that individuals will have to continue to bear responsibility for each individual amendment of the national regulation themselves and verify that there is no possible error in merging these texts, or that they will have to choose a second option to make an annual allocation of 100,000 euros for the unnecessary printing of officially purified texts in the Official Journal. Nor will individuals still be able to rely on the fact that the designation of validity also actually means that they are bound by the regulation. In the current legal order, we also have invalid rules that oblige us and must be applied by the courts and regulations that do not oblige us and cannot be applied by the courts. In addition, we also have valid sub-legislative acts whose legal basis is invalid and therefore are inconsistent with the constitutional requirement to harmonise lower legal acts with higher legal acts. Above all, we will continue to maintain the existing scope and opacity of the acquis, which covers more than 30,000 rules. This will only increase due to the failure to establish system-wide parallel mechanisms for the cleaning of the acquis. However, if the proposed amendments are to be adopted in spite of this, I would like to suggest, with caution, that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the same meeting, be given a third reading of the draft law on debarcation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u42	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 28th regular session. 12. 2021 examined the proposal for a law on debarcation submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec is 31. 3. The draft law required a general discussion. The National Assembly held it at its 26th regular session. Ten. 2021 and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law on demobilization is appropriate for further consideration. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law and made a number of comments to it from a legislative and technical point of view. In addition, their representative pointed out, inter alia, a specific mode of legislative regulation of matter, which constitutes a simultaneous interference with several provisions of one law, which can only be allowed exceptionally, to a materially limited extent and only when it is shown that a different method of amendment would be less appropriate. It drew attention to the overlying, ambiguity and nomadic openness of the definition of the content of the bill, which is questionable in terms of the transparency of the legal order. It further drew attention to an intervention in the rule of law, legal certainty and confidence in the law and the validity of the rules and their publication. The draft law, according to their assessment, constitutes an unacceptable intervention in the legislative, executive and judicial branches of power, thereby violating the principle of the division of power. With regard to the amendment of the Law on Administrative Procedure, she drew attention, inter alia, to the constitutionally controversial changes relating to the facilitation of electronic service and made comments on other novelties under consideration. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government. There was a debate in which some discussers pointed out that the proposal for a law in such a form and content as proposed was unintelligible and should not be adopted. In their view, the proposal for a law is weak, incomplete, inaccurate and not substantively defined, but does not take into account a number of reasoned comments by the Legislative and Legal Service. This way, the law will not achieve the effect I would like. It justifies the work of the strategic world, but it is far from security, trust in law. Its adoption would result in the destruction of our legal system. They drew attention to the dispute over simultaneous interference with the substance of 14 laws, as such a way of amending legislation could lead to the lack of transparency and instability of the legal order and difficulties in implementing legislation. Professional standards are being lowered and such a manoeuvre does not bring any added value. However, the proponents of the bill stressed the need to review the current legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The aim of the bill is to facilitate accessibility to public services and to eliminate the many administrative burdens imposed by the State on citizens and citizens and on many entities and municipalities in their operations with the State. To this end, over 200 laws are repealed and mechanisms are in place to further prevent the accumulation of state rules. We have a large number of rules that are not applicable, so things need to be regulated in this area. After the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted and adopted the articles of the bill. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended proposal is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 26th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the basis of the examinations of the amendments tabled of 14. 12. 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Left, the LMŠ and the SD. Anybody want to talk? Natasha Sukich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice hello to you all! We in Levica propose to delete section 22 of the law on demobilization, and I will now argue why. The current regulation in Article 86 of the ZUP provides, I state: “The electronic service shall be carried out by means of an information system of legal or natural persons engaged in the service of documents by electronic means as their activity.” Next: “The information system referred to in the preceding paragraph shall send to the addressee a safe electronic drawer and, if it has been communicated to the body, an information electronic message that the document must be taken over within 15 days.” Paragraph 3: “The home page shall take over the document from the information system referred to in paragraph 1 by using a qualified certificate for a secure electronic signature to prove its identity, to transfer the document electronically and to sign the service.” This method ensures safe electronic service and proof that the document has been taken over by signing the fever. In fact, this ensures equal protection of rights for all. That's the way it's done so far. I understand that the process of demobilization is a debt, that certain procedures need to be simplified and so on, but that you are setting up something fictitious as regulated here in Article 22, it is not only a simplification, but it is very dangerous. Why? The proposal now before us, in this new de-de-irocracy law, actually establishes a fictitious service, as there is no evidence that the document was served. This new evidence will simply be gone if this is accepted. This effectively reduces the protection of the party's procedural rights. When served in another electronic drawer, i.e. not in a safe drawer, but in another drawer, the purpose of the service will not be achieved, as it will only be assumed that the document was served, and it will be even harder to determine when the document was served, which will affect the running of time. I think these are very understandable arguments. It is surprising to me, Sir Simič, that you do not listen to these most logical arguments under the sun and that you insist so stubbornly on something that is truly completely pointless and very bad. Let me tell you what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly says to refresh the memory of this article. I quote: "In addition, the question arises whether the fiction that the person has communicated the address of an electronic transmission, if he has sent the application from him, refers only to the specific procedure or will be used in cases where he has sent an application from an electronic address in another administrative procedure. It takes into account the proposed text, both interpretations are possible. It is recalled that the decision of the Constitutional Court No Up-520/16 of 7. 6. 2017, in which the Constitutional Court found that, in the light of the addressee's real option, an interpretation which considers a final consent to serve in electronic form to be another (court) procedure constitutes a violation of the human right to equal protection of rights.” Thus, it constitutes a violation of the human right to equal protection of rights. “The Amendment of the Judicial Procedure Law (PPP-E) has established that, otherwise, the court may keep writings on a secure electronic basis in another proceeding, provided that, on the basis of the information on the party to which it has access, it can safely ascertain that that party has already registered its secure electronic transmission or address for service on a secure electronic route in the information system of the judiciary and that the party has previously served in writing that further writings in this procedure will be served on a secure electronic route until it has communicated otherwise.” In short, I don't mention everything, because you've seen what this job says. Let me just put it a little bit more simply, that we will all understand what the difference is. You yourself say that you are a government that aspires to digitisation, including cybersecurity, certainly. Well, in an age where we know how sensitive cybersecurity issues are, you would now, as you suggest, serve official documents in essence by e-mail. That means something like sending us official documents with a postcard in our mailbox. It's so safe, Your Honor. That is why I really do not understand this stubborn insistence on something that is pointless to regulate in this way, because indeed, once again, the purpose of the service will not be achieved because it is assumed that the document is being served. It will be even harder to determine when the document was served. And then it's gonna be a whole mess with the deadlines, and people are gonna complain to the left, to the right. This is going to be chaos, and it's not going to be debirocratic, it's going to be a major bureaucratic complication, complicating and making work difficult for the courts and so on. And that's just gonna be bad. I don't see one good effect. I would like to ask someone to explain to me in a very simple way what the advantage of your proposal is, what is the real advantage and whether you really do not see that this endangers that it is a danger to the constitutional procedural rights of all, that it does not in fact guarantee equal protection of rights for all. These are very controversial things and I'm really curious because I really don't see the point, I really don't see it. So I respectfully ask for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Simich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u46	Dear Mrs Sukič, I thank you for your question and your concerns. In Slovenia, we have a 14-year Circus in tax procedures, where we have just as defined. If I go any further, the Financial Board annually hots a circus of 2 million shipments with regular mail that you get in the mailbox. The case also stems from the fact of the year 2006 when we prepared tax legislation. At that time, the shipments were really hot with a return note, but if you didn't pick up within 15 days, you ended up in a mailbox like regular mail. So it's not a new arrangement, it's an arrangement we have. That's the first thing. That's another thing. This type of electronic service is decided on a voluntary basis only by those who wish. And the third option, if we read one article forward, is Article 23, which amends Article 86a, a new article which states: “In case of doubt the receipt and the day of receipt of the communication referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article or the document referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article shall be proved by the Authority.” So the body will have to prove the service. “If the authority finds that the addressee has not received a message or document, the document shall be served in accordance with paragraph 4” means a return. We also introduced this solution in tax procedures in 2006, when the Tax Procedure Act entered into force 1. 1. 2007 where we are determined that if a taxable person does not receive mail, those who are sent by mail are returned to him. So you don't have to hunt the hostages on some hands and so on. If he says he didn't win, he'll be sent back with a return. And let me make one more point: it's only those who want it, those who are used to it. We have had a service fixation for years, and there are no major problems with this fictitious service in tax procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Replica, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u48	Your Honor, I understand. That's not the problem. I've warned you that the point of debarcation is that you don't complicate and cause any complications or complications, where procedures are repeated, where repetitive, evidentiary, and so on. The point would be to increase the way Furs returns, the way Furs gets hot, to tighten it up in a way that things will be inconclusive, but not that there may be then a variety of speculations that someone has not received something, and then the complicated hands will stretch and so on. The point would be that maybe you could fix that without simplifying it the way you do. And then you say, "Organ has a duty," which is right to prove that he did something. But I mean, it's not a debirocracy, it's an additional complication. People will make excuses, yes, but I didn't get one. And then what? We'll have all the complications before we can come to a resolution when something's been sent to anyone. Do you understand? That's what I'm talking about. That’s why it seems to me — and also the legal and legal service is very well justified after all in a clear case of the day 7. 6. 2017, why human rights violations also concern equal protection of rights. These are things you need to pay attention to. I say, you'd better sharpen the way Furs heats up these incomes, instead of simplifying the reverse cheerfully in a way that is very controversial and in fact is not debirocratic, because I just told you that right now it allows what you want, a sea of complaints and complications and essentially additional bureaucracy, if we're accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Would you like to add an answer? [[Yeah.]] Mag. Ivan Simič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u50	Yeah, I just want to make it clear. In practice, nothing is complicated. These cases are almost gone, and I don't know what a single case is for 2 million shipments every year. Besides, it's a big simplification. If I'm sitting in my office and I get a shipment, I can pick it up in my office, pick it up, instead of driving 20, 30 or 40 kilometers to my post office, where I have to pick it up. The case has been pending for 14 years, as I said. No major problems, perhaps individual cases, and I do not recall them in my long-standing practice as a tax advisor. It's a matter of evasive action, and it's on a voluntary basis. Anyone who doesn't want to do this is not going to log into the system, they're not going to give their email address, they're not going to give their phone number, and there's absolutely no danger. It is normal, however, that those who do not exploit it, who do not know it, may not even be used at all when they receive informational income calculations or compensation for the use of the building’s land. Even when they throw it in my mailbox, someone can take it away. We've already talked about cybersecurity and so on. But it's not happening, it's not. That is why we see no reason not to introduce ourselves here. We don't expect any trouble because they haven't been there in 14 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Otherwise, he's already head of the Financial Administration mag. Simič explained very well, but perhaps I would like to describe this process in a somewhat simplified way and also to reassure some citizens and citizens that they would not be afraid, such as Mrs Natašo Sukič. When the train was rented and the first time it hit the track, it was people. [[…]] [[ringing the phone]] I'm sorry, I forgot to turn this thing down. The first time he drove a train through the plains along the tracks, people got scared and said it was a terrible dangerous thing, even being attributed to supernatural forces. Of course, they survived, but fear apparently still remains here with other things. When I get some mail in the mailbox, a note about the recommended mail, I have to have time to go to the post office, stand in line and wait, then I have to sign all this, show the documents, and finally I get this mail. This is a mailbox on my front door and it's a big mailbox, a central mailbox, it's called that mail where I live. Imagine that this mailbox is no longer on your door, but on your computer, on your mail, and that you can take it directly here. If we're talking about cybersecurity, of course, a lot has happened, they've even broken into the Pentagon, we're hearing about problems here and there, but I've already been thrown a leaf, so it was a bit of a dumpster and it fell through and it fell to the ground and it wets it. These are rare cases. Of course, then I ordered a new container, or we fixed it, and this is no longer happening. Surely this is simplified for all people who want to make their lives a little easier. Is it not better to spend time walking in nature than to stand in line? And now that he's a covid, we've had to stand in line even out in the cold for a long time. I think it's a nice simplification, that there's just as much danger as there is with a regular mailbox, that time is saved and there are no problems here. But it's also security, as the mag said. Simich, with an additional article, what happens if the recipient does not receive mail. I think that this amendment or this law must be fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Replica, Natasha Sukich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u54	Dear colleague, we are not talking about a train but about supernatural forces, but we are talking about the difference between a safe electronic drawer and a normal electronic drawer. Even in the case of a normal electronic drawer, the intrusion into electronic mail is much more likely than in a secure electronic drawer to say simply, and I do not understand why we deviate from the standard of a secure electronic drawer, why this is suddenly the subject of ordinary electronic mail. Like you said, it's like throwing an official document in a mailbox. It can't be like that. And these are not my fears, respected, these are the legitimate concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, once again, cites a specific case where a decision of the Constitutional Court has been adopted. So, we're pretending here now, as if this Constitutional Court ruling number Up-520/16 of 7. 6. 2017 does not exist, in which the Constitutional Court has decided that, in view of the addressee's real option, an interpretation which considers the final consent to be served in electronic form to be another judicial procedure constitutes a violation of the human right to equal protection of rights. I don't understand what the problem is that people who choose to receive e-mails wouldn't decide to set up a secure electronic drawer. But we'll give – what? I'll put my gmail address where any semi-personal hacker can go like this. [[shows with gesture]] He sneaks in and looks at my official documents that I get. That's what we're talking about, respectable and respected. So I would ask — why, what is the problem of a secure electronic transmission? You can do it by e-mail, but in a safe electronic drawer, not just like that, on a regular e-mail, for example, gmail. Yeah, that's the question. These are not fears of some I don’t know of forces, but simple fears of — excuse me, hackers with basic knowledge can hack into my ordinary electronic drawer. Of course, a slightly more capable hacker can hack into a protected and Pentagon, and I don't know where everything is, I don't say no. But a better person does feel like having a safe electronic drawer, if you're talking about some extremely sensitive documents. And it goes a lot, doesn't it? I don't want to, I don't know if I have a court case so that I can get a lot of people confused about these documents and read a little bit about what it says. I just wouldn't want to, and that's not data protection, and so on. That's what we're talking about. I don't understand this excruciating insistence, which is completely pointless. A secure electronic drawer is a secure electronic drawer and regular mail is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u55	Colleague, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u56	That's it. Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you. He asked the Mag for a word. Ivan Simich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u58	I guess we don't understand each other. There's no marriage, and we never said it was mandatory. Anyone who wants to do this can do it. Anyone who wants to use a safe drawer can use a simple e - mail address that does not want to receive it that way. And on the other hand, we can say that this interference is also the right of those who want to receive it at their electronic address, and someone wants to disable it. There is a provision in the law that this is possible. If four people in Slovenia decide on this matter, there will be four if there are 100, there will be 100. I don't expect a lot of them. This law only makes it easier to simplify, it makes it easier for all citizens and citizens, those who choose to do so. But if someone does not make a decision, it will still be safe for him, and they will still bring it to him, it will be served normally. I therefore do not really understand whether you have overlooked the provision that this is voluntary. Since it is voluntary, no one forces anyone to accept mail in their electronic mail or any ordinary drawer. In addition, normal security is a mobile number that gives us a password to open it at all. That means we have two, not just an electronic drawer or e-mail, but it's also a mobile number. And once again, this is voluntary for those who want it. If there is no one in Slovenia, we will have a provision, but we will have no one to open it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The digital train has long arrived and there is no natural disaster and no one is afraid of it. Here, however, is mixed a digital drawer and a collector on the front door or a homemade cough. It seems that we are still advocating an analogous approach, which of course is not true, but we are pointing to something else — security. As Mr Simic says, if no one will use it, no one will. Then why are you introducing this? It should be encouraging to people. In doing so, we point to something else – that some concept of the country's secure electronic commerce with its citizens is being undermined. This concept is already in place in this country. It was set up by previous governments, complemented by this government, and now this concept, which it complemented, has actually led to the end of a new ID card – otherwise it was mixed with a new ID card and could have been in force long ago, as all the grounds for this Parliament's identity card law to be passed last year, and this year could have had a personal ID card with a digital electronic signature. And that's the point, that's the upgrade of the secure electronic drawers that this country has already created. These secure electronic drawers already exist. It was late in 2020 and this year to encourage people to engage in electronic commerce with the country. And then, of course, we had that problem. People did not have digital electronic signatures, but they needed them if they wanted to get different certificates so that they could use them electronically — for example, vaccination certificates and who knows what else they were using. And it was a late time at the time of the epidemic, when people bloodiedly needed first knowledge of how to do electronics with the country, and tools. This is a tool that this country has already given to people. It is true that it is still administratively awkward to reach this electronic signature, because there is still a need for a visit to the administrative unit, which is, of course, an unnecessary step, but with this new ID card and electronic signature, this problem is also resolved. And we don't say anything other than why we should break this good, great concept with something that's basically purely domestic. When someone voluntarily consents to the fact that the state or the court or anyone who writes official mail to him does not know that all responsibility for anything that gets involved is on his shoulders. What if he's got a drawer full or he throws it in his spam or whatever, and it's still a fiction that he took over? There are no protective elements in this, which we point out, not to returning, I don't know, a decade or two ago, and that all mailmen should still be transported here and there. No, no, no, no, no! Therefore, the comparison, Mr Simič, by not knowing for how many years we have been receiving income in the mailbox without having to take it after the ZUP with the signature, does not stand what we are alerting. Yes, because that's okay, if there's one less one less contact here, we're talking about business security and everybody's warning about it. You have also been reminded by cybersecurity experts that these security elements are not involved and that all responsibility lies with a citizen who thinks that he has made life easier at the first moment, and in fact he can be very embittered or embittered by the state. That's what we're warning you about. Let's cherish this concept that's been set up. Once again, it is a shame that the year is too late, because, in fact, these things could have already worked significantly better in practice. But it's not too late. Above all, it is not too late because people during the epidemic have also started to use the electronic services of the country significantly, including those for whom electronic signatures are not needed, because they were simply forced to avoid contact, or if they were at home for example, they had more time to learn and get some knowledge. I think that this needs to be taken care of while at the same time ensuring the highest possible level of security. That's all we have to think about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Replica, Moja Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Let us take into account understanding, unreasonableness, train, and fear. Mr. Rudy Bear, I'm the responsible adult. I don't have to take responsibility for someone else, I take responsibility for myself. And if I decide to receive mail on gmail, it's my decision and my right. I don't need any country to take care of my safety if I decide to do so. When I will, if I will, and I hope not, demented, others will take care of me, but for now I will take care of myself. So that's the decision. Mr. Simic, I'm the first of the four to handle this. I assure you, I know three more of them, and then we'll be four of them. I also remember – if you remember Virant's reform of ZUP – sometimes you got a ticket and you went to get mail, which you didn't go to the post office, and then this pingpong lasted I don't know how long until he introduced the standard that if you don't pick up at the post office in 14 days, they throw you in the mailbox. As far as safety is concerned, either on a gmail or in a secure mailbox, everything can be attacked, just like my mailbox, which can actually be pulled out of the door and taken away. This could also happen, but I believe we are operating in certain safe conditions, we are the fifth safest country in the world, which of course we can behave with. And please, I also have the right to decide in accordance with this law. But whoever won't, they won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State and Head of the Strategic Demobilisation Council! No system is 100 percent safe and there is never enough warning about safety, safety in traffic, yes, and safety in traffic with data. I have this privilege of being around when we introduced e-mail in the big business system three decades ago. And interestingly, days ago we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the internet in Slovenia, which I consider to be one of the most powerful inventions, with the greatest power in the history of mankind. But our lives, thank God, are somehow making it easier, making it easier to develop technology and the development of technology must also be followed by legislation. I've been here for 15 years in the National Assembly saying that unfortunately, legislation is always about technology. Now for the amendment to Article 22. The amendment proposes to delete Article 22 of the amended proposal for a law on demobilization. We won't support him. What's this all about? Article 22 of the Debarcation Act infringes Article 86 of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Why am I talking about details? So that people who follow us understand what we're talking about. And what does the first paragraph say? Says the following: “The document shall be served in electronic form if,” if, in the first condition, “if a natural person in the register of permanent residents declares the address for electronic service and, if,” if, “the public authority, the authority of the self-government local community, the holder of a public authorisation, the legal or natural person registered for the exercise of an activity, in a judicial, commercial or other register shall register an electronic address”. That's not necessarily necessary right now, is it, if I choose freely? And I'm here defending the freedom of decision of a natural person, a legal person. Next: »The document shall be served in electronic form, even if the natural or legal person communicates the address of a secure electronic drawer or the address of another electronic drawer which is not a secure electronic drawer. It shall be deemed to have communicated the address of the electronic drawer if it has sent an application from it. The authority shall send a notification to the address of the electronic drawer from which the application is sent, which does not contain the address of the electronic transmission, that the document may be sent in electronic form at this address until the natural or legal person informs that it wishes the service of the document in physical form.” It's a decision again. Next: “The document may,” may be rendered “in electronic form, even if the natural or legal person has communicated the address of the safe electronic transmission or the address of the other electronic transmission in another administrative matter under the jurisdiction of the same authority, if it is known before the service that documents may be served in electronic form at the address communicated until otherwise communicated.” And the last paragraph: “The document shall be served in physical form if the law so provides, if the service cannot be carried out electronically, if the addressee wishes the service of the documents in physical form, from the moment the body becomes aware of such a declaration, or if the body considers that it is necessary for the content of the document or for any other reason to perform the service in physical form.” The matter here is perfectly clear to me, sufficiently detailed in the amended bill, paragraph 22, as described. I don't see any trouble here. Of course, once again, and I conclude with that, there is never enough warning of safety. Of course there are hackers, they'll get better and better. On the other hand, we also have security mechanisms that will also improve. They're better every day. Of course, we also have those hackers who can walk around with someone, I don't know, maybe a screwdriver to open your cough, as said a fellow bear, from a sheet or plastic. We find this solution good, and, as we say, we will not support the amendment to Article 22. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Very nice to meet you, Mr. Simič, all the other colleagues and colleagues in the hall! At first, I did not intend to come forward, but because I see that you are not coming out of practice and Mr Simič comes out of practice in this proposal, I will tell you myself what it looks like in practice, because I myself have been conducting administrative procedures for several years. What's on the table today is really a simplification. When you're an official, let me get this straight. [[…]] One is a digital or electronic signature, and the other is a secure electronic mailbox. That's the difference. More or less, those who opt for e-commerce with the country have an electronic signature, but may not have a secure electronic drawer. When you're an official and you're in charge of a procedure, either for a legal person or for a natural person, and then you end up being told that you want to receive documents by email, and you ask them for a secure electronic drawer — what do you have to answer the customer? Unfortunately, we don't have a legal basis to get you a regular e-mail address. The same is true if they transmit legal entities via portals that are for e-commerce with the country – broadcast electronically, they sign the application electronically but do not have an orderly reception in a secure mailbox. This is the difference that is being addressed today – that citizens and citizens and legal persons can, on the one hand, decide to be able to communicate to the Authority that they want to be received in a normal mailbox, is referred to as an e-mail address used without protection and will decide for themselves, thereby facilitating access to documents, as well as to natural persons. They didn't all decide on a safe mailbox. Why, for what reasons, we do not need to know, nor do we need officials. Everyone's gonna make the choice they want. Those who want to have a secure mailbox will arrange a secure, one that is ordinary electronic, and one that is still in physical form, in physical form. This is just a solution and a possibility of a larger selection for citizens and citizens. This proposal is mainly based on practice. I can tell you this as an official who has conducted administrative procedures for so many years, and we have encountered heat problems for this very reason on several occasions. Because people are traveling around the world today, they're not even home, and they want access to documents, and then we can't afford it. There are also many who are not at the address where they receive mail due to their service obligations. I think this is the main reason that such a solution has been proposed in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u68	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I'm just going to tie myself to Mrs. Zavadlav's letter. Something needs to be clarified about the heat. Mr Simič, if I understand correctly, spoke of ordinary service, direct delivery of mail to the mailbox, physically, right? Mrs Škrnjar spoke earlier about the recommended written shipments, about the takeover. As far as these electronics are concerned [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, okay, well, then she can replicate and answer. As far as secure e-mail addresses or addressees are concerned. Basically, I didn't even understand why we would then add other electronic addresses if there was basically a possibility that everyone could have secure electronic addresses or notebooks, actually. Why, then, should it be in insecure or in electronic drawers or addresses that are not treated as a safe area or as safe drawers? The very important thing that happened yesterday is the following. I don't know if you know, a notification was made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding information security. It has declared an increased threat to networks and information systems due to the critical vulnerability of certain public libraries. In fact, this already suggests that serious consideration should also be given to improving the safety of electronic drawers, including safe electronic drawers. I basically agree that this article is deleted, because, if so, then we should only think in the direction of a secure electronic drawer that is already possible, and upgrade it or somehow better to protect it, but not that – as Mr. Horvat said earlier, when he uttered a very random word, “not secure electronic transmitters or e-mail addresses”, did he not? Yeah. That's how it's treated legally. As a matter of fact, I support this article being deleted. However, the safety of electronic communications or electronic drawers or addresses will obviously need to be reconsidered. And also the Minister without a license, right now, I think that the Minister of Digitalisation will have, or that he has, more than too much work to do only to ensure the security and security of information systems, in which case also secure electronic drawers or addresses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u70	I had to take a call because I was obviously misunderstood by Ambassador Koraji. I have told you from practice why this option is introduced – because most people have electronic signatures but do not have a secure electronic mailbox. As they asked in the proceedings that they wanted to have a service to an address, a simple e-mail address, the official had to say: “I can’t send you because I don’t have a legal basis.” And there's a lot of questions like that. This then closes the door and the possibility both to people on one side and to officials on the other, so that the procedures can be completed in an easier way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Replica, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Maybe Mr. Korazia misunderstood me. I have summarized the text of Article 22 or the new Article 86 of the ZUP. You have freedom of choice. You decide whether gmail, as a colleague previously said, or whether you can choose – I am sure you will choose – a secure electronic drawer. And it's okay, freedom is big, it's bigger than ever.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes, so I'm asking for applications. Blaž Pavlin has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to point out that the amended bill preserves all forms of both investment and decision-making after the ZUP. It's called a physical form like a safe drawer. E-mail is just one additional form that we will be able to deal with the country. Of course, each individual will make a voluntary decision and I do not see a problem if you choose voluntarily not to make sure that you are monitoring, or that any administrative authority will send this decision to you by e-mail. I believe that most citizens have simpler procedures with state authorities, so that most of this decision is expected and will not be here pretending whether the individual decision or decision was served on it, but will make sure that this decision arrives in this electronic drawer in due time. A colleague of Sukichev's here pointed out the possibility of hacker intrusions, but look, hacker break-ins could also be in safe mailboxes. I imagine that the rarer intrusions into individuals are mailboxes, postal systems or larger systems are probably more likely to be hit by organised hacker groups to turn over or organise hacker attacks into these postal systems. I think one such post office has turned over to some extent for these attacks more secure than larger systems. Of course, I also expect from the state authorities that when someone sends them an electronic mail application, they will, I don't know, receive a response explaining that this process will be conducted electronically and that the decision will be received by e-mail. At the time of the epidemic, as my colleague Medved said, we were used or forced to use more modern digital technologies. I think it's just one step in the right direction. I think this will also help to make the state administration's operations cheaper because there will be no postal costs to send by mail. We also contribute to the reduction of paper consumption, which some parties, particularly the Green Party of the Left, have always advocated. I think that this is one step in the right direction to help the state administration to operate more environmentally. As I said, I will not support the proposed amendment alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and unrelated Members. I see that interest is in the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Rudy Bear has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have already made it clear in the debate on the law on debarcation that the law is extremely bad, that it has de-barcation only and only in the title, and we do not recognize it in the content itself, that we recognize at least that it would help improve the competitiveness of the business environment or that it would contribute significantly to facilitating the lives of citizens. At the outset, a representative of the law mentioned that if this amendment was adopted, we would remain the same. Which is fine. Which is fine, because it was actually a basic message first, but it's not quite true. We're not gonna stay the same. While we cannot improve the law, the law is so bad that it is practically impossible to improve it, we can only make it less bad and less harmful. The amendment proposed by the LMŠ in cooperation with the opposition partners is already going this way. In fact, not that we will remain the same, but that we will bring this law closer to, at least in this work, all citizens in Slovenia. All citizens in Slovenia. The starting point is to remove the thought of this official register, which is totally unnecessary. I've listened to the justification for this official register three times now, and I still don't know why. I still don't know why, because there's just no real argument for it. Nothing at all. The concept of this official register is at the very wrong starting points, as the applicants wish to present it as a means to ensure the authenticity of the basic and officially purified texts of the rules. The authenticity of the rules after the constitution is guaranteed by the Official Journal in which the rules must be published before they enter into force. It's over. That's what everyone told you. Everybody. An epic performance was performed on the committee by a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service at this very point. I think she's been staying at this point for, like, half an hour. Mainly, I do not remember such an extensive and professional performance of the Legal and Legal Service on one of the working bodies. An epic performance in which it actually legally justified why we do not need this official register at all or is harmful. Epic was also silent. Yes, but there was also an epic silence of representatives, I think, five or six ministries. Not one of them came forward to speak at least a word in support of this law. Not one. They were looking at the ground! Yes, of course, they were ashamed. They were ashamed, and here we are hearing that the law was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry. Yeah, he wasn't. If we know he wasn't. He wasn't. The ministries got the last minute on the table to sign something to make it official. He wasn't coordinated with anyone. It was created within the Strategic Council and the Cabinet of the President of the Government, the Office of the Government of Law with it had nothing to do with the question of how it was communicated with the professional public or with the public concerned – yes, by consulting the Strategic Council on this law. So, the strategic world wrote it first, and then he introduced it to himself, and he said, "It's good. It's good. That's how it was. You can't deny it because we know that. However, so much information comes from these strictly closed circles that we know how this law came about. But now to return to this unfortunate official registry. For the operation of the official register, as envisaged, a whole set of conditions must be met, including the drafting of official consolidated texts for laws and regulations, including for the Constitution. This condition can only be fulfilled if the State Assembly, if the State is currently working solely on the preparation of these texts. Of course, this has completely different effects than you want to show them. If you wanted to put somewhere an administrative barrier that's practically impossible to skip, you're here. It's just administration. Where? It's a de-de-irocracy law. In the law of debarcation! It is an exceptional bureaucracy, a burden on all legal services which are in any way related to legislation, and, of course, a burden on the National Assembly and, last but not least, the State budget, since all these texts will have to be published in the Official Journal. You call that debirocracy. You can explain for a long time and then you can reason, the fact is that this official register is unnecessary, and shake it off. However, we are offering you a good solution here, which will satisfy the citizens and citizens of this country, because all the regulations are already available at national and European level. Here we go! I don't know what's wrong, where we got the problem that you suddenly discovered it. What is the point of this now? Apart from this exceptional administration and, of course, a few more tens or a few hundred people need to be hired to do all this work. But it is still a solution with the support of the amendment to Article 44. We let go of this official register and focus on what we're proposing, and we haven't made up what we've come up with. We did not just invent this register of legal acts of local communities ourselves, but it was actually a request from municipal associations. I don't know how long you've been in contact with them in this marriage, and then they've been referring to us to ask us if there's anything else we can do before this disgrace from the law ends with the adoption of the National Assembly. The Register of Laws of Local Communities is the right way to really gather all acts of local communities, including spatial acts and everything that belongs to the normal functioning of municipalities and their attitude towards citizens. That's not what it is now. That's not what it is now. In part, the municipalities publish acts in the Official Journal, and some other options are used. People who have the most dealings with municipal acts are looking for this and are often left to themselves. Of course, if you choose to support yourself here – and I think you will do a good job and run into the approval of local communities and, on the other hand, the approval of all the legal professions that this country is going through – because all the legal profession has fallen together after this unconstitutional and unnecessary official register – say another thing. This is — and I will now tell people in the Official Journal — who is designing their prices. Why do the congregations not publish their acts in the Official Journal to a greater extent? Because they're too expensive. Because they're too expensive, I'll tell you that firsthand. For a while, I was the director of the municipal administration and, of course, we bent on these accounts from the Official Journal for every smallest publication. And at the end of the year, when you saw how much money was lost for these publications, we thought it was completely insane. If we were to publish regulations in Del on the front page, I think it would be cheaper than in the Official Journal! This is a problem which the Official Journal has in relation to citizens, institutions which publish anything in the Official Journal. But that's not the theme of this 44th article right now. The topic is the regulation of the register of local community legal acts to simplify, know what we are talking about, and make this law less harmful than it currently appears. We still have that option. Agree and support this amendment to Article 44, and at least as many alive as you will come through this law, which is being attacked from the very beginning by everyone who has ever opened it, except Members and Members of the coalition, and probably also the Strategic Council for Debirocracy. Once you open the door of the Strategic Council for Debarcation into another room, which is not the Cabinet of the President of the Government, but what ministry, you have seen their attitude towards this law – disgraced and looking to the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dr. Katja Triller Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. These flat-rate indications, which can be found in the explanation of the amendment to Article 44, that the establishment of an official register is constitutionally controversial, conceptually inconclusive, substantively incomplete, to bring about an increase in bureaucracy and enormous financial consequences, are based on a complete misunderstanding of the origins of the new official register. That is why I would like to respond once again to all these concerns, even though we have responded in additional written explanations. First time. About the constitutional dispute. The amendment here stems from the misleading assumption that the official register will eliminate the importance and legal effects of the Official Journal and that from now on legal effects will only create the text contained in the official register. That's not true. The public company Official Gazette, which will be the administrator of the official register, will only add a fourth collection to its three existing collections, including the Regulation Part of the Official Journal, the Announcement Part of the Official Journal and the Official Gazette – the International Treaty. Officially revised texts of national rules will be published on the online platform. This collection will be new among the applicable national rules, so far this has not been possible, also by the criteria of the hierarchy of legal standards and by the thematic criterion. To date, only the chronological criteria allow searching in the regulatory part of the Official Journal. This will reduce the number of posts in the Official Journal's Regulation and consequently increase the transparency of the Official Journal's Regulation, because these long texts will be on a separate portal, in the management of the Official Journal, it is said that this company will have all of them in management. Second reading. It's about conceptual inadequacy. If there is any confusion, the vague conceptual basis of the amendment, which states, is that “there is no reason why for information purposes it would not be possible to rely on informally purified texts from the legal and information system”. This informational nature of the existing legal and information system is precisely why this register cannot be legally relied on. If you open this portal, you will be able to read on any unofficially cleared text available on this portal that the unofficially purified text of the regulation represents only an informational working tool for which the authority does not guarantee compensation or otherwise. The amendment is clearly based on the existing concept of the legal and information system, that the State cannot take systematic responsibility for the content and scope of its legal order and that this burden, despite the existence of the competent services, still imposes on individuals who are legal laymen and who are not familiar with the law and the nomotechnician. In contrast, the new official register is based on the constitutional concept that the basis of the definition of Slovenia as a rule of law is that the State guarantees the content and scope of its legal order. If the state does not ensure this, then we cannot talk about the rule of law, which is clear and specific, but about the rule of law, without which individuals cannot interpret even the fact that a provision of a state law is valid and to when it is valid. This revised paradigm does not therefore mean that the new concept is inaccurate, but I agree that the concept is incomprehensible for experts who will have to start carrying their part of the responsibility for the scope and validity of the acquis from now on. Because, otherwise, I cannot explain where such epic opposition as you have expressed yourself has led to the introduction of a new official register, which will be subject to the principle of trust and can be relied upon by citizens and citizens. Third time. It's about content imperfection. The proposal for an amendment sees the substantive imperfection of the official registry in that the register will not contain general acts for the exercise of public powers which are intended to constitute an important part of the acquis. This is unfounded because the scope of the official register is based on the constitutional concept of state rules, which do not include acts for the exercise of public powers. And if general acts for the exercise of public powers in practice constitute an important part of the legal order, this does not mean that we must also provide a place in the official register for these acts. On the contrary, efforts should be made to abandon existing practice as soon as possible, which, in certain cases, still governs certain rights and obligations in acts for the exercise of public powers. As an example, for example, I should mention the rules of compulsory health insurance. Then forward, on the rise of debirocratisation. Here, too, the amendment is based on a misleading assumption that, in order to publish officially purified texts in the official register, it will be necessary to re-establish the whole procedure, the existing procedure for the preparation of officially purified texts. Nor is this true, since one of the main purposes of establishing a new official register is to simplify the way in which these texts are prepared. The fact is that the existing procedure for the preparation of officially purified texts provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not a legislative procedure and therefore there is no need for an official consolidated text to be published in the Official Journal and, already after the existing Rules of Procedure, these texts can be adopted in a package, meaning more texts at once, without discussion and also with the general majority of Members. This does not require a two-thirds majority as necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The final response remains to the conclusion that the introduction of the official register will have greater financial implications. Here, too, the amendment comes from a misleading assumption. As I have already said, any officially consolidated text will first have to be published in the Official Journal. And that's not true. The publication in the official register will be cheaper as regards costs. If I only mention an example, in 2014-2018, the National Assembly allocated half a million euros for publication only in the Official Journal. However, if we add to this the publication of officially purified texts in the Rules of Procedure, I would devote some €650,000 to this. These costs will be substantially reduced following the closure of the official register. The cost of €780 000, which is foreseen for the establishment of an official register over the next five years, will therefore be covered within one mandate. In the future, however, it will significantly reduce the availability of officially refined texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much for explaining. You haven't convinced me until we have the Official Gazette on the one hand and we have a legal-information system that contains everything you're talking about, everything, and the Ministry of Finance has told you to cancel the establishment of the official register, because this will only mean costs, and update the legal information system. On the one hand, the Official Journal, on the other hand, is a collection of all regulations and the end. And we are at it, as you said, at the beginning – if this amendment is accepted, we will remain in the same position. What's right is nothing's wrong, or the upgrade is a register of legal acts. This exercise, where it will be cleansed, when it will be unrefined, when it is authentic, and this is in fact in the situation when we summarize – I am not a lawyer, I am not a lawyer, I am summarizing what the Law and Legal Service has written, and your government law service has written this. And that's summary, that's not a flat rate. But it is true that if I go to your brother here one more time, the legal and legal service, but it will take a really long time, I think it will be less than 3 hours and 23 minutes, as long as we have for this point. That is why I have outlined the basic findings of the Legislative and Legal Service, which are a summary of what it has written to you and what the Government's Law Service has already written to you. We have not deviated from the idea of registering local community legal acts, but will insist. But it is up to you, whether you support it or reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Natasha Sukich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I am already when we were Or was Mr. Starović in front of me? [[…]] Then let him be in front of me. I don't mind if he's in front of me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u83	Go ahead, Mrs. Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u84	Okay, whatever. The first time we have dealt with all of this, we have clearly pointed out certain really nonsense in this bill. For example, the introduction of a new official register of regulations, as you have now explained what it will contribute to – let's pour some pure wine, basically means some sort of circuit from the Official Journal. But what's even more worrying is that it's going to cost us 780,000 euros. 780 thousand euros, if I tell you more plastic, means a thousand minimum net wages, respected and respected. And this moment, given that the Law-Legal Service took so much time to present why it was essentially a constitutional dispute – then we saw how all the representatives and representatives of the ministries were completely silent. No one said a single word. This should concern us, respected and respected. And the fact that you are now explaining that this law is intended to clarify legal uncertainty at one time, provides for the termination of laws that can no longer create new rights or obligations, so you are also touching legal rules that no longer apply and do not essentially affect people's everyday lives. And now you'd be handling all this. What does that mean? A new bureaucratic effort and new reflections, and I don't know what it is. I don't know where this is going. But what interests me the most, and I would ask for an answer – which company will handle this? I don't want to be any way, Mr Simic, that you don't take it personally, but we do know that you have, say, a company that does such things. [[…]] Will this company be exempted from this story if this is confirmed and there is a realisation? Because if not, it's an extremely controversial and unhygienic act. You are running a debirocratisation project, and at the same time you have a company that deals with such services. Will your company therefore be excluded from the invitation to tender or from doing so? That's what I'm really interested in. Indeed, it is a proposal that is extremely burdensome, including a financial moment. This moment, when we have far more advantageous things here, let's say the fight against the covida epidemic. Each euro is important in this fight against covid. And this is about a million euros of some cost that is unnecessary right now because it's not going to bring anything. We have the Official Gazette and it works just fine. I agree with my colleague that perhaps the Government should make efforts to make the services of the Official Journal cheaper, so I fully agree. And I agree with the proposal of the LMŠ, which is on the table today, but which really addresses some of the real needs arising from the real needs expressed, not from some of the imaginary things that then – forgive me – nobody from the ministries has said anything. However, this is the case for all regional ministries. Why were these people even in the session and then they just kept quiet if everything was okay with it? By what you are proposing, you are in a truly inadequate way repealing regulations that are not applied in the Slovenian legal order in any way and thus no longer as I have already told you. There is absolutely no need for that. This will not save anything and make life easier. In fact, you're going to encourage us to spend our public spending on some nonsense. I really want to know who's going to make this happen if it comes to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has been given by a representative of the Magnificent Government. Ivan Simich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs Sukič, I have heard a lot from you and respect you, but I cannot believe that you are proposing the deletion of Article 44, which states in Article 11.d: “The activity of the management, management and maintenance of the Official Journal is an economic public service carried out by a public undertaking in the manner determined by the Government by the regulation.” So that's what the Official Gazette will do. That's what the law says. My company doesn't do that. So, you're telling the truth. I believe I've heard from your client many times before that I'll get all this. I've earned enough in my life, and I don't need it. So it's too bad you said that because I have a different opinion about you. But please read the law we're proposing for the rest of the time. We have said this several times and have also announced publicly that the Official Journal will do this, so I really do not know why such questions are, because everything is clear. Why would we set up something if we already have a public company doing it, and this public company will continue to do so? I think you may not have known, but my opinion of you will not be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The replica has Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u88	Dear Mr Simic, then I apologize to you in this place. I really didn't know. I have to say, I missed that. In the mountains of materials that I have, I've actually lost it, and that thought was in the air somewhere, so I said it. And that's why I asked you if you had an opportunity to explain. I'm really sorry, it's not my intention to slander or insinuate, so far as we understand each other. I'm really sorry I missed that. I hope you'll forgive me for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. So that there will be no ill will regarding the order of the applicants for the debate, please sign in. The procedure is under way. We've got two reported. The first one gets the word "Boštjan Koražija." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u90	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I don't know if the other MPs were paying attention, but six. 12. 2021 We received a letter to the Udis system by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which says the following about the comments to the proposal for a law on demobilization. I'll just read it to make it clear. »Dear Sirs, we have already sent you 18 comments on the proposal for a law on debarcation, which has a significant impact on the functioning of the judiciary. Ten. 2021 (Annex). In addition, we stress that we fully adhere to the views of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as set out on page 7 of the Opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of 17. 11. 2021, on the constitutional dispute between the procedures of the draft law and the judiciary. As it is rightly recalled, the establishment of a principle of trust in the official register with a binding legal effect would lead to the fact that an official or a judge who decides from the point of view of confidence in the official register would in fact happen exactly what should not in fact have happened to the people who, on the basis of this official register, should also be the most targeted or most targeted, say to the judges “to decide on this basis and not on the basis of the law published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia”. Thus, we should in fact decide on the basis of an official register and not just on the basis of a legal opinion, which is also in the Official Journal. “The judges, as stipulated in Article 125 of the Constitution, are independent, bound by the Constitution and the law in the exercise of judicial office. Respect for the principles of the rule of law according to our beliefs requires, inter alia, the preparation of legislative proposals protecting the constitutional position of the judiciary." And we are now back at the beginning, when Mrs Triller, with all due respect, also talked about where such a rebellion against this law on debarcation was coming from. It is said that directly from the Court itself, in fact, directly from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, where the official registry you wish to establish does not agree or even agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of 17. 11. 2021. It is said that the matter is, in fact, constitutionally controversial. Here is this roofing evidence that you can then read especially in Udis, our information mailbox, that matters are very serious and problematic in terms of regulation or the establishment of the official register itself. I would ask if you might have been in touch with the Supreme Court, because I know that they have also sent you comments on the proposal – then why did this not take into account or why you do not take into account those who will, or should be forced to, use the official register you wish to introduce?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr Katja Triller Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much. This statement or problem, whether now to see the text in the official register or to see the text in the Official Journal, I simply do not understand because the text will be the same there and here. The only difference is that when an individual seeks a legal order in a fair manner, he will also be able to search the official register for thematic criteria and the hierarchy of legal acts, while the Official Journal can only search by chronological criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Korazia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thanks for the replica. Question or replica to Mrs. Triller. So you've been in contact or in communication with the Supreme Court about this proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Given that these comments came directly to the National Assembly and that they did not contact us directly, we were not in contact with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, others present! From this debate until now, when we are discussing these two amendments, two articles, I see that I do not understand something. We have before us a law on debirocratisation – so the problem is red tape? It may be a problem in its organization, way and so, but without bureaucracy it is impossible to work. Bureaucracy means only a way of organizing where the hierarchy is clear, superior and subordinate. And the hierarchy of legal acts must also be clear. We can't jump here right now, but we can't debirocraticize. All countries have this bureaucracy. So bureaucracy denotes the government of administration, i.e. administrative, administrative staff, if I put it simply, which is in the bureaus – from here the name bureaucracy – which is in the offices of the state administration and also every major organisation. It's just a way of organizing and nothing else. In short, bureaucracy is the administration of all authorities, if we are talking about an organ of the state, from local to national level. In fact, it's not a problem with bureaucracy, it's a problem of overemphasis. There's a problem. But this is what the Ministry of Public Administration is supposed to do. This is the Ministry which is responsible, by constitution and by law, for the systematic regulation of the organisation and functioning of public administration. That's why it's a special ministry to deal with it. On the first page, it is stated in the first sentence that this ministry, in cooperation with other departments, is working to remove administrative obstacles and improve the quality of public administration. That's the content. I don't understand. Some headquarters services, one, three, we put some organs outside what we have by the constitution and by the law that we have the organs. But actually, the problem is that. This tendency to regulate all areas, all aspects of life with laws and regulations is always, is present and comprehensive. In this direction, I absolutely welcome any initiative to reduce this, to also leave room for self-organization and common sense. But because that's how we do things, we're in over our heads, and that's what's killing development. It really does kill developmental thinking. That's why art is so good, because it doesn't stick to these frames and beats things, it's got flashes, it's got a third. For example, in visual art, the surrealists could come because the previous ones denied it. It is true, however, that because of the complexity of life, we have greater regulations, but the bureaucrat, as we say poorly, wants to have everything arranged in boxes and you do not know where it ends. The problem of overriding – I remembered it, it was so well said – warned our President of the government today at the opening address in March 2020. The President of the government at his performance. He said, I will quote: “In 1992, when Slovenia was not only a single country, we were also internationally recognised, we had our own currency, diplomacy, military, stronger than today, trained police, all institutions that worked more or less. At the time, there were fewer than 2,000 rules in Slovenia." The State Secretary has now mentioned that we already have 30,000 regulations. "less than 2,000," the president's words. "There were 404 laws and a thousand 555 sub-laws. At the end of last year’s year, that is, in 2019, “we had 860 laws in force in this country and 20 thousand 101 under-laws at the state level. In addition to generating huge management costs with the country, it generates long procedures in front of the authorities, we lose hours, days, weeks, months, years.” These are the words of today's Prime Minister. But it looks like it was more of a flossule and it couldn't go any further or it was more populism, because it grew enormously again. We create new laws after the current tape, including those that are in conflict with the Constitution and other laws. Now we have before us this law that destroys the Official Gazette, something that it does, and something new is in force. Everyone's against it, and we're on our way. I'll tell you something, because I've been doing a lot of financial work. In Slovenia, listen, the first banking law in 1991 counted 5,000 6 words and banking worked without any major problems. In 2006, so when the same Prime Minister of the Government as he is now, the law counted 47 thousand 532 words, almost ten times more. At that time, banks became enormously indebted and Slovenia's total indebtedness doubled, almost tripled – from 15 billion to 40 billion. This year's adoption of the law, listen, this year's adoption of the law, the same president again, contains 140 thousand and 33 words. 70 times more than then. 70 times more! Do you see that number? 70 times more and we still have problems. We also have another law on bank resolution and forcible bank termination, which is now eliminated, which contains 111 thousand 555 words. What can we expect from 70 times or now 25 times those 70 times more words? Even less use of common sense, even less competent bankers, even more debt – what is happening to us again, we have an additional 8 billion. I mean, it's a little farce. If we're going through some kind of debarcation, it's impossible because we're organized that way, or the country can't be organized, but let's just remember, otherwise it's not the order. We are therefore going to reduce normality, because we are over-normalised, here we are looking for our own things. Digitalization. We say "Jaaaa, digitization, this will bring us." You know what digitization brought us? Binary system, copy-paste system! It's very simple to create new rules. Instead of making things easier for us, it makes them harder for us. Otherwise, at European level, we have already established a European Commission to reduce administrative burdens. We too have been following this example since 2006. We even have a website called Stop Bureaucratisation, where every citizen can complain, as also introduced by Minister Virant. We also have a count of how many laws we pass on short notice. Do you know how much? We have also adopted a resolution on normative activities, but we are enacting laws; 70% of the laws are adopted in short-term rather than in accordance with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. So here we have to resist our austereness. That is why we will vote in favour of this amendment, because it is unnecessary, we have the Official Gazette, it is simpler, and we do not have to do anything else. So, overriding is a problem, not bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I didn't want to interrupt you, but I think that a good part of your debate has moved away from the amendment to Article 44, and I would like to ask that we stick to the content on the agenda. What do you want? [[Procedural.]] Procedurally, Mr. Starovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u100	I'm sorry, President, but there's no other way to explain why we're doing this. I can't. You can't explain things with a comma and a dot. It's in context, and it has to go wider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law on the equalization of waste within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of three Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. At its 34th meeting, on 30 November 2021, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The first word is "Messenger Group" Left, Željko Cigler. Here you go. I take it Mr. Brickler is not here. The second is the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, mag. Andrei Reich. He's not among us either. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the placement of persons in international civil missions and international organisations within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representatives of the Government, who are not. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Monica Gregorčič. She's not here either. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Emissary Group of the List of Marjan Šarca, Lidija Divac Mirnik. She's not either. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Matjaž German. He's not here either. Parliamentary Group New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye! International peace and security remain the basic objective and value on which the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in international relations is based. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has drawn up a proposal for a law because, in the application of the Law on secondment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations, some shortcomings have been demonstrated which prevent the above-mentioned objective from being achieved. The regulation has already levelled the legal situation of posted, employed in state and other bodies and those who are not employed in public administration, but because of restrictions on employment and austerity measures in the state administration, it has been impossible to deploy interested persons outside the public sector to jobs in international organisations. Nor has the specificity of international organisations been taken into account and does it involve the need for a greater level playing field in the remuneration of persons posted to different international organisations. In practice, the selection procedure has proved to be insufficiently effective and the proposal for a law remedys this deficiency. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs therefore considers that all questions relating to the posting of persons should be settled in a uniform and comparable manner to those of international organisations. The first and fundamental objective of the bill is to regulate the procedure for the selection of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to be sent to international civilian missions and international organisations and their rights and obligations in relation to the posting in order to contribute to the achievement of the mission and objectives of international organisations or foreign security or economic interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law thus allows the posting of persons who are not employed in the public sector as their assignment under the applicable law has been limited by the obligation of prior employment in the public sector. The draft law also includes judicial officials whose referral has not been fully implemented so far. The powers of the Interdepartmental Commission, appointed by the Government and which contributes to the formulation of a policy of referrals and their implementation in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, are extended. It shall be established that activities relating to the posting of persons to international organisations and to international civil missions shall be directed and coordinated by the Ministry responsible for foreign affairs and that other competent authorities shall coordinate, in cooperation with it, assistance and support to candidates applying for calls by international organisations. It also simplifies the selection of candidates for referral. A referral under the new law may also be made on the basis of an agreement with an international organisation where it does not publish an invitation to tender, provided that there is an external political interest of the State authority for referral to an international organisation. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we support the development of effective multilateralism with an activity competent in international organisations. In doing so, Slovenian diplomacy, based on strategic foreign policy documents and aware of resource constraints, has to work more closely and more closely to adapt its activities to these national priorities and capabilities. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. She's not either. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u104	Mr Vice President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Global geostrategic changes are happening faster than ever. New regional and global forces are emerging, power ratios are changing. Particular interests in commodity, labour, economy, money, strategic investment are being promoted on the basis of facts, and modern technologies are only accelerating these processes. They also add their own climate change. These are happening faster and more intensely than ever before. Droughts, floods, hail, ice cream, heat waves and, last but not least, new pests and alien species that destroy crops and which are not adapted to their environment pose new, unprecedented risks. Global challenges are therefore as complex and diverse as complex relationships in the world. It is therefore right to contribute, as part of the global community, to calming and stabilising the situation where and where it is necessary. In Slovenia we have experience and tradition to which we can rightly be proud, but the Law on seconding persons to international civilian missions and international organisations was adopted in 2006 and has not been amended since then. It is therefore not surprising that more shortcomings and inadequacies have been demonstrated in practice at the time of implementation. The draft law, together with restrictions that make it difficult for persons to travel to international civilian missions and organisations, is intended to eliminate them and thus make it easier and more effective to carry out such activities. Amendments to the law also introduce additions and upgrades to the current travel system, which should also ensure a more current flow. Slovenia has been active in international organisations and missions since its accession to the European Union, where security and peace are at the forefront in many cases. We can be proud that our citizens at different ends of the world offer humanitarian assistance or help the local population to establish different systems, such as the new administration. It is ironic, however, that Slovenians and Slovenians are also part of missions that care about the establishment of the rule of law and democratic institutions or human rights, while these same institutions in their own country have been collapsing and beating for a year and a half. While the bill provides a number of good solutions, among them it is appropriate to highlight the expansion of the possibility of travelling from the point of view of employment in the public sector. If this was now possible only for individuals employed in the public sector, this is no longer the case. It is also clearly welcome that the referral of judicial officials, for whom the current law did not make the referral fully possible, has been made. The knowledge and experience of individuals on a mission are invaluable to people and organizations there. It is also of great importance to the experience of posted persons on the mission itself, which further strengthens their expertise. Any participation in the mission thus constitutes an investment in the country's human capital. We want the bill to achieve its purpose and to ensure an even more effective journey of Slovenian citizens. Members of the SAB Group will not object to the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! International peace and security must be the basic objective and value of all of us if it is to be believed that in the last 3,000 400 years, only 268 years of peace have been recorded. But we do have the ability to connect and cooperate for common good and peace. Let's just see how the different natural disasters around the world connect us. And where military conflicts have arisen in modern times, members of various military and civilian forces have come to protect civilians. Missions, including nationals and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, were intended to establish peace in areas where conflicts took place for decades. At the same time, they reached the beginning of talks between the parties, allowing humanitarian aid to reach the most vulnerable. Even though only 2 million people are good in Slovenia, we can offer the world a huge deal. In addition to sports achievements, Slovenia is known for never turning its back on those who need help. Let us stand up for one who cannot defend himself, or through education and logistical support we help the countries that are on their feet. Because of our warmth, we have a great reputation on the international floor. In the Desus Group, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law on the posting of persons to international civil missions and international organisations. By adopting the law, we will align the legal situation of posted, employed in state and other bodies and those who are not employed in public administration. Thus, many qualified, trusted Slovenian citizens in an international organisation or civilian mission will be able to operate actively and will be in an equivalent legal position with their colleagues. Of course, working on such missions is also a great responsibility. The activities relating to the referral shall be targeted and coordinated with the competent ministry and individuals shall, in contact with the competent national authority, assist in establishing the positions of the Republic of Slovenia on the topics of the international floor. They thus contribute specifically to ensuring international peace, security and the reputation of the country in the international community. Finally, such work is, of course, also an opportunity to acquire new skills and skills. There is no doubt that participation and operation in international appliances offers a new world view and better professional opportunities. The Republic of Slovenia is active in various countries. Through its citizens, it actively represents and realizes its economic interests and, in order to improve the situation in other countries, strengthens international relations and creates a new world. We can therefore be very proud of all citizens and citizens working in such tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u108	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! When it comes to the international community, of course, it is always a question of the credibility of the State which is involved in the international community. Its role in civil missions and international organisations is therefore extremely important, especially because it is generally a humanitarian activity, a rescue of human lives, a concern for prosperity, development, everything we want to create around the world, because it helps to preserve peace and adequate security in Europe and in Slovenia as well. This is why the proposal for a law on the deployment of persons to international civilian missions and to the international organisation before us today is very important. It is important because it equates the situation of all those who will be posted and because it also creates an appropriate legal basis for their further work. When it comes to these people, you have to give them all the credit. Recognition must be given to all those working abroad on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, taking care of our reputation and helping people anywhere in the world, especially in humanitarian missions. For all these reasons, the proposed law will be unitedly supported in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on audiovisual media services under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and three Members with a first-signed magi. Branislav Rajic. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Janji Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u110	On 12 October, we presented to the National Assembly a new Law on Audiovisual Media Services, which seeks to introduce a European directive from this area into Slovenia's legal order. The bill is almost identical to the government law adopted by the National Assembly at its 24th regular meeting in July this year, but on re-decision at the request of the Council of State in September. The key improvement of our proposal concerns the identification of the most controversial solution in government law, which is the introduction of a specific contribution. This would be designed to develop the production of European audiovisual works and would fill a specific budget fund for European audiovisual production. As you know, Slovenia is delaying its implementation of this European directive and has already received two reminders from the European Commission. In the event of untimely implementation, we are also facing a penalty of EUR 700 000. Although the deadline for implementing the Directive is extended to 23 February of the following year, our assessment is that the law is adopted and implemented immediately. We are aware of our responsibilities, so we have decided to submit to the National Assembly for re-decision a draft law in a form that we have been prepared to support since July this year. We have withdrawn the disputed provisions on the establishment of a European Audiovisual Production Fund and on the introduction of a contribution, because obviously we do not know, as in other Member States of the European Union, where Netflix tax has been introduced, how to design appropriate solutions. It will be better for us not to introduce funds and contributions at all because, according to our assessment, they unfairly burden domestic publishers and the directive does not specifically require us to do so. The proposed solutions are also agreed by the Government and are also supported by the National Regulator Agency for Communications Networks of Slovenia, which welcomes the withdrawal of provisions on the dissemination of important events via satellite, as proposed by colleague Rajić. The only comment by both the Government and the AKOS, which the applicants could not take into account for nomotechnical reasons alone, is to reintroduce Article 33 concerning the independence of AKOS into the law. We also have support for the Association of Cable Operators of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenian Digital Television Operators and the Broadcasting Council. In particular, we would like to highlight the support of the State Council, from which cooperation has developed and on the basis of which we have achieved the inclusion of a provision on the 5 % mandatory share of Slovenian audiovisual works in the annual catalogue of the provider of these services on request. We therefore introduce the law in addition to the European national quota, which can be included in the share of the European quota. We believe that the transposed directive will not have the same effect for all the Member States of the European Union and will not contribute to the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity in the production of audiovisual works in the European Union if countries such as Slovenia, which are addressing a smaller audience, do not choose their own national quotas. Indeed, the EU is characterised by cultural and linguistic diversity. Slovenia is now one of the 24 official languages of the European Union, but it will be difficult to choose equal treatment and share within European audiovisual works by providers such as Netflix, HBO and others. The introduction of a specific national quota is also welcomed by the Broadcasting Council, which draws attention to certain obligations of television broadcasters up to the minimum share of Slovenian broadcasters. National quota support was also expressed by copyright experts on the grounds that Germany, France and Spain have also legislated national quotas. When proposing a suitable share, we preferred to follow the famous Slovenian river Better sparrow in hand than pigeon in the roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Aljaž Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 17th regular session, the Committee on Culture considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Audiovisual Media Services Act, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed mags to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Branislav Rajic. The State Secretary, Ministry of Culture, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the State Council, Director of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services participated in the work of the Committee. The representative of the proposer said, in his opening remarks, that the bill was similar to a government proposal rejected by the National Assembly in its re-decision after the Council of State. The main difference is that the proposed bill releases a controversial solution from the unaccepted government proposal of the law, namely the introduction of contributions to the development of European audiovisual works and the establishment of a specific budget fund, a fund for European audiovisual production. As the deadline for the transposition of the directive has already expired, the Group of Non-Aligned Members decided to submit a proposal for a law to the Parliamentary procedure. He then presented amendments to the proposal for a law that took into account the Government's proposals, the comments made by the ZPS, the comments made by the professional public, and the amendment to the amendment of the Committee which had been prepared in cooperation with the Council of State. The aim of the bill is to harmonise the regulation of audiovisual media services with the legal order of the EU, as well as to remedy some of the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the existing Audiovisual Media Services Act. The representative of the Government said that the bill was largely identical to the proposal made by the Government, which was rejected in the National Assembly after the Council of State and the re-decision of the National Assembly. Given that the main purpose of the bill is the appropriate transposition of the EU Directive into the Slovak legal order and that the creation of the Fund is only permitted, but not compulsory, the Government agrees with the proposed solution. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said, inter alia, that the amendments tabled in part of the comments of the PSC were abolished and she reiterated the provisions which had not been taken into account with the amendments. The Committee adopted the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supports the bill. The members of the Commission are of the opinion that the proposal for a law is the result of a constructive response by members of the National Assembly and the Government to the Council of the State and the strong comments made by all stakeholders in the audiovisual media field who have pointed out the inadequate solutions to the initial proposal. It was pointed out that Slovenian media or cultural space is small and large media houses or audiovisual providers are aggressive and highly skilled in kicking domestic content out of the cultural space. In a short discussion, the opposition pointed out that the proposed law does not regulate the so-called Netflix tax, for which Slovenian film makers have long held, thus delaying the opportunity to improve the financing of Slovenian film and television series. The production of Slovenian film will also be financially supported in the future. The representative of the coalition said that the Ministry of Culture had immediately initiated the drafting of a new law, including with a view to preventing the payment of penalties and the law from being adopted by 23 February 2022, when the law was again rejected in the National Assembly. In her opinion, the proposer took over the Government's proposal for a text of the law and presented it as his own. The fund, as proposed in the original text of the law, was a good solution, but unfortunately the new bill will not allow additional funding for Slovenian film. The Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 17 and 38 of the proposed law by the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the two amendments for amendments to the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. A further proposal for a law incorporating the amendments has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr. Friedl Jarc, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable President, thank you very much for your words. The National Assembly is considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members with Mr Rajić, the first-signed. This law is practically identical to the law drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the previous legislative process. It has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the provisions of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 amending Directive 2010/13/EU relating to the coordination of certain laws and regulations of the Member States relating to the provision of audiovisual media services. In its proposal for a law that had been drawn up since spring 2022, the Government took into account all the required stages of drafting legislation. The first draft law was submitted to the public in the summer of 2020. On the basis of comments and proposals from stakeholders, a version of the law was then drawn up, which was transmitted for inter-departmental coordination to all ministries and other bodies concerned by the content of the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, after aligning with the proposals received during the inter-sectoral coordination phase and following compliance with the Government of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Law Service on 4. 3. 2021 The proposal for this Act has been sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, but on the basis of the votes cast by the Council of State and after a re-decision in the National Assembly, as is known, it has not received sufficient support. The main finding that the proposal for a law in the National Assembly was not adopted was the way to establish and manage a new Fund for European Audiovisual Production set up in accordance with Article 13 of Directive 2010/13/EU as amended. Given that the deadline for transposition of Directive 2018/1808 has already expired and that the European Commission has already initiated the prescribed procedures on the basis of which monetary penalties may be imposed on the Republic of Slovenia as a result of delay, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has immediately initiated the preparation of a new version of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Audiovisual Media Services Act. In addition to certain nomotechnical corrections, provisions on the establishment and management of the European Audiovisual Production Fund have also been omitted from the new proposal. In view of the many conflicting views on the European Audiovisual Production Fund expressed during the preparation and also during the legislative procedure of the previous draft law, it was found that it would be difficult to prepare a coordinated proposal for the Fund's organisation with all stakeholders, which would receive sufficient support in the National Assembly in a short time. It should be noted that the establishment of such a fund by Directive 2018/1808 is only admissible but not compulsory and can be established at any time in the future. Such a new government bill was prepared and forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for review. Then it is 8 p.m. Ten. 2021 a group of Members with first-signed Mr Rajić to the National Assembly tabled their proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Audiovisual Media Services Act. This proposal was practically identical to the proposal prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, a proposal for a law that had not previously been approved in the National Assembly was clearly taken as a basis and the provisions on the establishment and management of the Fund were deleted from it. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that, if several proposals governing the same social relationship are tabled in the legislative procedure, the National Assembly shall first consider the draft law which was first transmitted. In view of the fact that the proposal for a law formally tabled by a group of unrelated Members is, in one way or another, summarised on the basis of a proposal prepared by the Ministry of Culture and, consequently, that the provisions of Directive 2018/1808 are properly transposed into the Slovenian legal order and that Slovenia avoids payment of penalties for late transposition of the directive, the Government has adopted a position to support the proposed law. In addition to the principled support, certain comments were also made. The proposer has prepared amendments supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Now let us just add a position to Article 17, which introduces a mandatory 5% share of audiovisual works. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the objectives are to protect Slovenian media or cultural space, which, with the proposed amendments to Articles 17 and 38, are legitimate and indeed justified, but the proposed solution is not appropriate. It is accepted without due consideration and without coordination with Slovenian audiovisual media service providers on request. In fact, the new obligation will only bind Slovenian suppliers [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u115	Dear pay phone, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u116	Just two more sentences. May I?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u117	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The new obligation will only oblige Slovenian tenderers and thus interfere with the constitutional right to free economic initiative. The precise analysis was not carried out and the applicant did not define the concept of "Slovenian audiovisual work" and the Government therefore points out that any such transposition of the directive will not be confirmed by the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! That audiovisual services are a wide and complex area and are regulated as a subject of the Digital Single Market in the Member States on the basis of the adopted Directives, we have said several times in this Chamber. With the implementation of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, we are late, and Slovenia is therefore receiving warnings, threatening to pay a high fine. To avoid this, this amendment will be adopted today, even though it is still inadequate or inadequate in certain areas, which will soon require re-entry into legislation. Social Democrats will support the amendment and supplement the Audiovisual Media Services Act, although it is almost the same law as the Government has prepared, but after the veto of the State Council it has not received adequate support, that is 46 votes or more. It was expected that the applicants did not return to the law with regard to the industry's contribution to film production. It is the so-called Netflix tax, which the directive permits and which is always pursued by the Slovenian film community. So now, as we understand it, this does not support the solution that we are considering today. The name alone says that this is a mechanism that primarily refers to cross-border service providers who can operate freely on our market without obligation and bind our providers. As a result, they are ahead of home and can be more competitive. The government law fell precisely because of the very ill-conceived regulations governing this area. Instead of establishing a balance between domestic and foreign providers, as the directive allows, it has further burdened domestically and allocated the distribution of collected funds to the Ministry of Culture. We regret that this time the proposal has not even opened up this area. We believe that this is a missed opportunity to improve the financing of Slovenian film and television series with additional resources. The production of the Slovenian film would have been given additional impetus, so it will likely continue to be financially malnourished, although it is an area in which countries in our neighbourhood are competing with completed systemic solutions and investments because they understand how important it is and because each euro invested repeatedly returns, not only in a symbolic sense, but in fact. As stated in the introduction, it will therefore be necessary to re-invent this law as soon as possible with a deliberate solution to the obligation of direct investment in Slovenian film and television series or to contribute to the budget intended to co-finance this area. This will not further burden domestic suppliers who already support Slovenian film production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! The European Audiovisual Media Services Directive in Slovenia is still not implemented because it was adopted by Parliament in July 2021 and was vetoed by the State Council and not confirmed at the re-decision. The proposal before us is a partially secondary form of regulation of the area. In technical terms, the proposal for a law in Slovenia brings the Directive on the coordination of certain laws and regulations of the Member States on the provision of audiovisual media services. Its key innovations include: increasing the obligation to promote European works in audiovisual media services on demand, which must have at least a 30 % share of European works in their catalogue; then further, it is necessary to ensure the appropriate visibility and easier access of users to them and the possibility for Member States to require financial contributions to the production of European works from other Member States if they have a target audience in their territory. The Directive also regulates other important content such as media literacy; the prohibition of the promotion of violence, hatred and protection of crime; the protection of children in audiovisual media services; the availability of media services for persons with disabilities; the areas of audiovisual commercial communication; the freedom to receive audiovisual media services from other Member States; the promotion of the use of co-regulation and self-regulation; the transparency of data on audiovisual service providers; the promotion of European audiovisual works; the services of video exchange platforms and so on. However, an important innovation in the current proposal in view of the previous failures of the government proposal is that the provision on the establishment of the European Audiovisual Production Budget Fund is withdrawn. This means, in practice, that important issues concerning the possibility of developing Slovenian audiovisual production as an integral part of European audiovisual production have been omitted. For example, the development fund could remain, but with fair criteria, not to the detriment of domestic audiovisual service providers. The essential recommendations of the profession are still missing. The Association of Frontier Professional Associations of Slovenian Film Creators points out that, first, the definition of European audiovisual works is missing, that there is no way to calculate the share of European audiovisual works and that there is no contribution to the development of European audiovisual works. Nor does this paper address the key shortcomings in the current law regarding the definition of European audiovisual works. The ZDSFU proposes to complement the definition by aligning it with the definition of Slovenian audiovisual works and allowing production and production of audiovisual works by authors, such as films, sequels, nuances, documentary and animated films. In order to improve implementation, the content elements of audiovisual work should be precisely defined and the content of the audiovisual work should be clearly deficient, according to the profession. It's over. The speedlines are an important issue between areas that need a more determined view, with the street name Netflix tax or Netflix tax. In other Member States of the European Union, this category of taxation has already been introduced under this Directive, thus establishing that audiovisual service providers, on request such as Netflix, HBO, Apple, Amazon Prime, also contribute to the public treasury. In particular, the Directive is designed to protect European audiovisual service providers on demand, offering a greater share of European audiovisual content in their programmes and also paying taxes in the European Union, and, on the other hand, by contributing to the burden of foreign, global providers. This area remains open and unaddressed, and we note in Levica that the taxation of foreign audiovisual service providers on the Slovenian market should be regulated as soon as possible. Their global profits are astronomically high. Only Netflix recorded $25 billion in revenue in 2020. Taxation must be fair. Billionaires must contribute their share to the public treasury. We will not support the MPs and Members of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u124	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. The amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Act follow the European Directive and implement it into our space. The bill is based on the same principles on which the existing law is based. The law sends a great deal of solutions. It is necessary that media service providers and video-sharing platforms, in cooperation with all stakeholders concerned, promote the development of media literacy in all social strata, for citizens of all ages and all media, and that progress in this area be closely monitored. The law prohibits, through audiovisual media services, the promotion of national, racial, religious, sexual or other inequalities, violence and war, the protection of the service of terrorist acts and the provocation of national, racial, religious, sexual or other hatred and intolerance. Programme content shall also be regulated which may harm the physical, mental or moral development of children and minors by establishing an arrangement based on the prior publication of an appropriate acoustic and visual warning on the labelling of these programme content by means of an appropriate visual symbol and by placing them in place within the appropriate time frame or by establishing appropriate technical protection. There is also a specific provision for informative programming content, where an appropriate warning or other appropriate warning should be given to the viewers at a reasonable time before they are broadcast. The law provides that audiovisual media service providers should gradually improve access to their services for persons with disabilities and report on the implementation of this obligation to the Agency every three years, with the first report to be forwarded by the end of April 2024 for the past three years. There is an increasing commitment to promote European works in audiovisual media services on demand, which must have at least 30% of European works in their catalogue and ensure that these works are put at the forefront. The proportion of Slovenian audiovisual works should be at least 5% of the total number of works in the catalogue of audiovisual media service providers on request in each calendar year. The diversity of opinions is more than just a diversity of information. Even more data does not necessarily mean higher quality and more opinions. Information society is not necessarily a smart society, so global media must make it possible to access European national and regional content. The media must not favour certain opinions or unjustifiably repeat them more than others. They must prevent the automatic formulation of opinions and hate speech. Because of the diversity and strong influence of the media, individual professional and social cooperation requires media literacy. People of all generations must learn to manage more data and electronic communication in order to live today. Media literacy and access to a wide range of media offers are particularly important for people with disabilities. The proposal, changes in the law are following these goals and that is why the law in Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Parties of the modern centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Your Honor! The proposed amendment of the Audiovisual Media Services Act brings the content of the Directive on the coordination of certain laws and regulations of the Member States on the provision of audiovisual media services to the Slovenian legal order. It is almost the same version of the law that the Government submitted to the National Assembly for consideration earlier this March, but in September it did not receive a sufficient or more demanding majority at the meeting of the Assembly in deciding again on the veto of the State Council. We know that the rapid technological development in recent years has allowed for new types of services and user experience. Changes in habits, especially those of younger generations, are also not of negligible importance, as they have enabled the rapid expansion of transmission devices to view audiovisual content. New patterns, offers, habits and trends represent content created by users themselves. At the same time, users also become providers of video content on request and platforms for the exchange of these same content or products. In all of this, we must not forget the maximum protection of children against harmful content offered online. All these challenges and trends are met by the law that we are deciding on today. The proposal for a law retains the existing obligation to ensure the freedom to receive audiovisual media services from other Member States of the European Union. The existing prohibition of promoting inequality and intolerance is adequately supplemented by stressing the prohibition of promoting national, racial, religious, sexual or other inequalities, violence and war, as well as the protection of terrorist acts and the challenge of national, racial, religious, sexual or other hatred and intolerance with audiovisual media services. The bill also contains measures for the protection of children used for broadcasting services. These measures will also have to apply to audiovisual media services on request. The most harmful content that could harm the physical, mental or moral development of children, but not necessarily a crime, must be subject to the strictest measures, such as encryption and effective tools for parental control, without prejudice to the ability of Member States to take more stringent measures. This is a set of content that is of exceptional importance to our Group of Members. More important solutions to the proposed novel surely include the obligation to gradually improve accessibility to audiovisual media services for people with disabilities. We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Audiovisual Media Services Act in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u128	Your Honor! The bill before us will finally end with a related story that we have been able to follow in recent months. The proposal for a law to transpose the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order was put essentially by the Government and their proposal differed from today in one essential point. The Ministry also included a proposal for a contribution to the development of European audiovisual works. Several groups of Members have repeatedly warned us that the government has not transposed the related provisions of the directive in an appropriate manner and has put Slovenian tenderers in a worse position rather than seeking to tax those bidders who make big profits on our market and do not contribute a cent to our treasury. Today's proposal for a law on this disputed provision, which has resulted in the participation of the Council of State in the law and has not finally raised the appropriate number of votes, no longer includes. We can comment on the content in the same way as we commented on it when it came to government law. We also acknowledged to the law, with the exception of the above-mentioned provisions, that it brings many good solutions and that it is worth greeting in many ways. As a special welcome, we have already highlighted additional child protection, for example in terms of labelling controversial television content or stricter provisions on their protection against inappropriate commercial messages for foods with high fat, salt, sodium and sugar. This is particularly welcome at a time when we are dealing not only with the covida-19 epidemic but also with the epidemic of overnutrition and obesity in children. The provisions on the prohibition of the promotion of violence or hatred and public protection for the service of terrorist offences in television programmes and videos are also particularly positive at the request and increase the obligation to promote European works in audiovisual media services on demand. Following all of this, the Members of the SAB Group will unanimously support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u130	Nice greetings, chairman of the National Assembly, and greetings to everyone else in the Hall! Today's law is largely identical to the proposal already made by the Government. The key difference is that the new bill removes provisions on the establishment of a European Audiovisual Production Fund. The deadline for transposition of the European Directive has already expired and the amendment needs to be adopted, otherwise the financial penalty for Slovenia will follow. However, the state cannot afford or are totally unnecessary to pay such penalties. It brings the new law into our legal order by setting out European directives, which, in addition to the existing prohibition on the promotion of inequality and intolerance and violence and hatred, also adds to the prohibition of public protection to the service of a terrorist crime. Terrorism is a very real threat in our environment. This threat has also been identified and sanctions against terrorism are further exacerbated not only at the media level but also in criminal law. In this way, preventive deterrence is achieved from future terrorist practices. We all remember the very cruel terrorist attack in Paris in 2015. Of course, this was not an isolated case and there were even more of these discard attacks on Europe. Media legislation must also be adapted to prevent such behaviour. The content of the novel law is also an additional protection of children in media services. Appropriate measures for the protection of children already used in television programmes should also be applied to media services on demand. A higher level of protection is established for content that could harm the physical, mental or moral development of children. The most harmful content should be subject to the strictest measures. The change brought by this novel is also that the media content must be accessible to persons with hearing and vision impairment. This will be achieved in a way that will require providers to provide sign language, subtitles for deaf persons, subtitles spoken and audio descriptions. In the event of natural disasters, in particular, urgent information on this must be provided to persons with disabilities through media services in a way that is accessible to them. Media service providers should promote the production and distribution of European works on demand, with a 30% share. An amendment was also adopted on the Committee, which will now require providers to include a 5% share of Slovenian film production in the programme. This is very good in terms of national culture, although this percentage could be significantly higher. It is a European place with a culture close to us that we know. It is right that the content of such a topic favours the content of third countries that are foreign to our space. It is regrettable, however, that the area of taxation of foreign media service providers remains unregulated on demand. It would make sense to regulate this area in a way that digital giants who offer video content on our market would tax and devote this tax to the national film institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you, too. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We have already discussed the amendment of the Audiovisual Media Services Act in the National Assembly, namely after the Government prepared it and sent it to the National Assembly for consideration and it was a proposal for a law in the National Assembly 9. 7. Also accepted. On the 16th day. 7. The Council of State then voted veto or demanded that the National Assembly decide again on the law. We re-declared the law on September 22nd, and the law was not adopted at the time. Some were disturbed by the new Fund for European Audiovisual Production, which would bring additional funds for Slovenian film. Mr Rajić then submitted to the National Assembly in October a new draft law on amendments and additions to the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which is practically identical to the proposal prepared by the Government and was rejected in September in the National Assembly. In this new version, of course, there is no fund for Slovenian film, so the law now contains only matters related to the transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order. This is important because this directive should be transposed and we are already late, and the European Commission has already extended this deadline. If we do not adopt the law, Slovenia is in fact awaiting a financial penalty and we will have to make quite a lot of money to do so. I wonder what governments have done before what the previous government has done, Charcé's government has not prepared it in time. Well, anyway, the new government has done it, it has prepared it, but now we have, as it were, an emissary law before us, which is practically a copy of government law. In the SDS Group, we are aware that the law needs to be adopted, and we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be moved by Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which is identical to the government proposal that was rejected in the National Assembly at the end of September 2020. However, the main difference is that the new proposal removes provisions on the establishment of a European Audiovisual Production Fund. At the time, we considered most government solutions to be appropriate and very useful in the LMŠ, but a biased and professionally questionable government approach to the establishment of the Fund overturned the good purpose of the bill. Just to remind you, then the minister suggested that he, of course, would determine, supervise and also share the money that would flow into this fund. Of course, we were very opposed to this in the opposition as well. The current proposal. The opposition's proposed solutions to the European directive, not only because of Damokle's sword, which hangs over us in the form of almost one million fines, but mainly because of the substantive solutions that improve the legal basis for audiovisual media services in Slovenia. We have proposed to upgrade the legislation in force and have also now seen it in the field of the protection of persons with disabilities, although the proposal does not fully provide for measures of accessibility to information and communication resources to be provided to persons with disabilities either by public or private mass media. Even then, together with the work of the opposition, we have succeeded with the amendments, which we are pleased to do, and in this way we have improved this bill. We are also pleased that the proposaler has also taken this into account in the present law that we are talking about today. Notwithstanding the fact that the European Audiovisual Media Services Directive does not explicitly lay down the obligation to set up the Fund, in the LMŠ we believe that, at a different government approach today, before the activation of the system of payment of contributions under the AV media service, which would in particular follow the principle of protecting domestic providers. This is what we need in Slovenia. The question of how to tax the provider of AV media services was raised by a large number of words during the summer of 2020. There was also a public hearing at the time of the collapse of the government amendment of the law. The comments were then made by all the more visible stakeholders. And after all the debates, including in the EU and here in the DZ, of course, there was sufficient time for the establishment of the Fund to take place in a less chaotic manner and in a way, as some other European countries have done, which, by so-called Netflix tax taxation, have clearly followed what we are also following in the LMŠ – the idea of protecting domestic AV service providers. In the opposition's work with the government, we tried to cooperate and proposed some solutions to eliminate disproportionate taxation of Slovenian AV media providers compared to foreign global providers. But the government didn't hear us. To that end, she was then stopped only by the veto of the State Council. In the LMŠ, we believe that, with sufficient political will to give room to independent institutions and inclusive transparent communication with all stakeholders, we can certainly reach a common denominator in the future to set up a dedicated fund for the universal development of AV media services. We will support the proposal in the LMŠ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby end this agenda item and the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 13.01 and resumed at 2.00 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u136	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The national assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 4, 12, 8, 15, 16, 6, 9, 11 and 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region in the context of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. An explanation of the voice? [[No, no, ……]] Procedural proposal, Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u137	Mr President, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request a 45-minute recess for consultation in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session. Proceed at 2.46 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.01 p.m. and resumed at 14.47 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u139	Dear fellows! We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region within the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Gas Supply under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law on debarcation under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 12. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' groups Levica, LMŠ and SD to Article 22. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing that the amendment wasn't accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and unrelated Members to Article 44. We're voting. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm breaking up. Explanation of vote, Rudy Medved on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much, President. The law on demobilization is so bad that the amendments cannot be improved at all, we can only make it less harmful. By adopting this amendment to Article 44, we can do at least something good within this bad law for the congregations and for citizens in general. In fact, some parallel Official Gazette, an official register of regulations that we don't even know what it's for. We have the Official Gazette. When you publish a regulation in it, it simply applies. This official register is now intended to provide some access to regulations, as if these rules were not now available. We even have a well-managed, transparent set of rules in the legal and information system, and this provides more than this official register, including access to European legislation. So the official register is completely unnecessary and the Official Gazette kicks out. But as it is said, we can at least partially correct the law by going to municipalities, local communities, citizens and citizens and by legislating the register of legal acts of local communities. Now these regulations are scattered at different ends, something in the Official Journal, something after different portals or publications, and it is difficult to find anything, sometimes even the spatial act of the congregation is difficult to reach. And this is the desire of the congregations. This amendment, proposed by the LMŠ, is the wish of the municipalities. They turned to us after they had also spoken to the head of the strategic council, but they were not told that once and for all we would regulate this register of regulations of local communities. This is now an opportunity to withdraw from the law a harmful, unnecessary register that serves nothing, and to go to citizens and citizens with a register of local community rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 41. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 37. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Council adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We vote on this decision [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] We are voting on the proposal for a decision that the draft law on third reading should be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 4. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on secondment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgement of the Arbitration Court under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the context of the reduced procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 3. Procedural proposal, Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you, President, for your word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask for 45 minutes of pre-decision breaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u143	Okay. We'll pick it up at 3:45. I'm adjourning the session until then. (The sitting was suspended at 2.57 p.m. and resumed at 15.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u144	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2021, published on the e-club [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Did I hear procedural? [[Yeah.]] Comrade Daniel Krivec, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In accordance with Article 74, I propose that the decision at this point be moved to one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u146	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups on this proposal? No, no, no. Would you like a word from the government? I'm guessing not. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a postponement. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to postpone the decision on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, the second consideration, to one of the next meetings of the Assembly. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 34. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Therefore, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law at one of the next assembly meetings. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on the payment of unpaid disability compensation under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 14 December 2021, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the Magi. Andrej Reich in relation to the measures related to the energy crisis. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the President's response [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural proposal, Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u147	President, I'm terribly sorry, but there are eight speakers in this room, and there are only two. We all have masks, but if someone's still lying in the chair, they're telling stories, just like we saw last night, and there's nothing to hear. I use headphones as a disabled person here. I don't know why I use eight speakers. I was at the otologist who told me I could hear. But there's something really wrong in this room. Let's fix this, or put it out more loud or fix it and train eight speakers. With all the money the government's giving us, I guess we'll at least make this sound in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-15-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u148	The services have been heard. I think it sounds pretty good. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you talk through each other, no speaker can help, not even eight speakers or 10 speakers. I suggest you concentrate, it sounds good who doesn't hear, and he can use headphones. We are therefore at the second proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the parliamentary question of Janja Slug concerning the energy crisis and the response of the Government of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to Bosniak Koražija's question on funding specialisations in clinical psychology. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Janez Poklukar to Edvard Paulič's question on the work of the Section for Infection and Control of the Covid-19 Epidemic. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of Soniboj Knezak on urgent measures to mitigate energy dearth. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to Mark Bandellija's question on Kobilna Lipica. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, and the Minister of Environment and Magi. Mr Andrej Visiak asked Jani Ivanuše about the main road Ormož-Hajdin. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 48. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Health Minister Janez Poklukar to the question of Mr Lenart's question on lack of healthcare. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš, on the recent government invitation to tender for higher education programmes. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja and Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of the delegation of Vojk Starović regarding the Long-term Care Act. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Meire Hot in connection with the high-speed roads H5 and H6. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question by Mr Natasa Sukić on the bullying of union representatives in the police. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of Mr Violeta Tomić on the measures taken in the framework of Christmas and New Year's fairs and plans for 3 million Slovenians. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 45. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister without a department for the area between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr. Helena Jaklič, to the question of the delegation of Mr Jožet Lenart concerning the exercise of the rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrej Reich's connection to renewable energy to the network. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the question of Bosniak Koražija on the protection of the archaeological collection of the Ptuj-Ormož Regional Museum. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, to Violet Tomić's question regarding the resignation of Director of SNG Drama Ljubljana and the renewal of the Drama building. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I'm informing you that in 15 minutes, this is 4:15 p.m., the 89th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly will begin.
