ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Franc Jurša, Ferenc Horváth, Aljaž Kovacič from 10 a.m. to 18 p.m., Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 10 a.m. to 13 p.m., Tadeja Šuštar Zalar to 16 p.m., Dr. Franc Runk by 1:00, mag. Dušan Verbič, Felice Žiža, Marjan Šarec from 10 a.m. to 15 p.m., Robert Polnar from 9 p.m. to 14 p.m. and Robert Pavšič from 14 to 18 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY — INTERPLEMENTING ON THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR ENVIRONMENT AND THE SPACE OF MAG. Andrey the visionary. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 43 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. In order to further explain the interpretation, I give the floor to the representative of the candidates to Rudy Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Hello, Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! This interpretation should in fact not be at all, because Andrej Vizjak would not even be a minister in governments that give little to the personal integrity of their members, or would immediately give up when his personality is publicly revealed in connection with his action in politics. But that is not exactly what the minister understands; when you go into politics, you need to have a clear picture of what is public and what is private, and above all you need to have a clear view of what is public interest. “Who decides to devote his life to politics knows that his main task is not to serve money.” Angela Merkel said that. But with Minister Visian, it's about money all the time. And another interesting thing is that when Minister Vizjak approaches the water, he breathes after the referendum. Minister Visjak doesn't understand what the public interest is. The disclosure of his famous bargaining with Bojan Petan about the reign of Terme Catež only exposed his domestic perception of his role when he was in power. It also exposed the way in which the past governments of Janez Janša and the current government sat and sat Andrej Vizjak. Governments that, on each occasion, take possession of the state as prey and once again manifest an incredible word after all. And all this time we knew, Andrej Vizjak only brought it closer to us in such a familiar, understandable language. He revealed the dual morals of the then government, which was for the people in the war with the tycoons; with those, as John Janša said in 2007, who tied the yachts to the marinas and built the villas. But these were performances for the public. Hidden from the eyes and incomprehensible to ordinary mortals, there were real wars at the back. The fight for Terme Catež is an illustration of the current time and the way the current ruling policy works. Of this, the complicated story will remain in memory of a half-quantasian innkeeper’s conversation with the cinging of glasses in the background, the conversation of two sokrajans, with one minister – one minister – and the other a transition businessman. So in the front of the fight against the tycoons, and in the background of the political economic landscape, in which Minister Vizjak says: “Look, if we make a deal, I will not fuck you because I have not yet.” This will remain in memory: “You will pay taxes. Too bad, it's stupid." This has almost given birth so as not to become a saying. What's that, I'm asking you. This was said by the minister, who swore to respect the constitutional order, to act on his conscience and to work with all the strong for the welfare of Slovenia. For the well-being of Slovenia. What is the concern for the welfare of Slovenia? Yes, the payment of taxes is undeniable, and we pay them even though we didn't swear to do it. Andrej Vizjak, then and present minister in the government of Janez Janša, in the midst of the war against the tycoons, offers the tycoon a truce. More than that, he can very clearly explain to him how to avoid paying the tax, even urging him to avoid it. What do we get in the Minister's defense of the interpolation? We get confirmation that Minister Andrej Vizjak does not really understand what the public interest is, so he has already served us with a story on the front pages of the defense about an innocent minister and who knows how many robbers. At first, he doubted the authenticity of the video, which might have led us to believe that he was not saying it at all; but later he realized that he was on the tape, but he was actually the victim, as the spokesman Petan was literally referring him to controversial statements. Is Andrej Vizjak really so manageable that someone can just put statements in his mouth? The alleged innocent minister also found robbers who were united in the garbage mafia, which attacked the minister. The minister, who was literally talking about tycoon takeover of the company, now found the enemy in another mob; where you look, that is, the mafia. Then the Minister is widely asked about the various concepts of state-owned management before and after 2010, but you can look for so much, nowhere is it written that the Minister on behalf of the State can offer someone a cooperative composition of the supervisory board, a replacement of the company director and who knows what other benefits. He can't and can't! So today, Andrej Vizjak wants to appear as a great fighter against damage to state property. He was angry at Bojana Petan because of his tremendous greed and obsession with the control of Terme Catež, but in the 2007 video of this Visian anger, he did not detect, perhaps just a handful of indignation, because Petan did not understand how to avoid paying the tax. Andrej Vizjak says he did not act irresponsiblely and untransparently. He's even trying to convince us that he was following the public interest. The President of the Government, Janez Janša, also insists that due to Vision’s statement, taxes do not fall. Then it will be best for the head of Furs Simic to take Minister Vissiak to lunch and to pursue the pursuit of the biggest taxpayers. That the payment of taxes was not so foolish, after the disclosure of Vision’s statement, it hastened people to persuade the Financial Administration, even by publishing a poem about why it was wise to pay taxes. Minister Andrej Vizjak also, in a very popular way, revealed to all of us the program view of the SDS and the first government of Janez Janša in relation to the judiciary: “We will go with all the canons to this, you know that we will be independent in the performance of the judicial function” – if the children look at us as well – “pull.” Article 125 of the Constitution clearly states: “The judges are independent in the performance of the judicial function. [[…]] They are bound to the Constitution and the law." Respect for the constitutional order or provisions of our Constitution as the highest legal act is something that should be self-evident for each representative of the executive branch. It's not. In one sentence, Minister Vizjak illustrated the relationship between the present and the present authorities to justice. But he distanced himself from his own statement. How you distance yourself from your words, I don't know, but he distanced himself. But we cannot be surprised at the brutal attacks by the current government of Janez Janša on Slovenian justice in the face of what has been said. For a party to the SDS, this is a mistrial. Her President and the President of the Government do not miss the opportunity not to insult the judges from the Constitutional Court down. He doesn't pick up the mail. The current authorities show their impoverished attitude towards justice by making the justice minister a man who is under judicial investigation for tax evasion. It's like in practice I'm testing Vissakov's axiom about the stupid paying of taxes. During the mid-second year of the government of Janez Janša, we were able to well understand how power positions strike with all canons, and let them be judges, prosecutors, journalists, NGOs. In short, for all those who do not wish to do so or hope to make public criticism at her expense, I am not talking about the broken parts of the body, which Minister Vizjak vividly mentions, for example, to the leadership of the Slovenian police, who is only an obedient operator of the ruling policy. And if, in the past, Minister Andrej Visiak has been able to see that he has a rather foreign interest in public interest, he has no such problems in his private interest. He likes to buy shares of state-owned enterprises, which is the right of every citizen, including the minister. But the minister should always be subject to the principle of caution, as suspicion of the abuse of internal information may quickly arise - and it has also appeared. As early as 2012, Andrej Vizjak became involved in the purchase of Telekom shares. Probably not just by chance the day after the government in which he was sitting secretly agreed to the payment of higher dividends than originally envisaged. A very narrow circle of people was informed about this. That was inside information. Timely purchases amounted to profits due to an increase in the value of shares and higher dividends. Of course, it is difficult to believe in coincidences when such a filigreely precise choice of the moment of purchase is. Andrej Vizjak also saw a good opportunity decades later in the Petrol shares. Last spring, he became one of the largest small shareholders at the time of a significant decline in the stock value due to the epidemic. It is true that the minister bought shares a few months before the full liberalisation of fuel prices. Of course, there is a reasonable suspicion that he knew not only that this would happen, but also when it would occur. And when it came in, this stock value went up, and so did the minister's profits. At the same time, the myth of the price of petrol fell by one euro. And here you see this steep path up. If, at the time of the Minister's purchase, the share price was EUR 289, it has so far increased to over EUR 470. If the price of petrol was then a good euro, it is now at least a third more expensive. By buying more expensive gas, we all make sure that the minister's profits are even higher. I suspect that the abuse of internal information is sufficiently serious that this manoeuvre by Minister Viszak should be sufficient reason for his resignation. He saw the opportunity to see her as a member of the government. The Minister of Environment and Space is, by his function, the Ombudsman of Nature. The guardian of the public interest. Which Andrej Vizjak doesn't understand. In fact, it constantly proves that it is the threat itself to the environment, that it is actually the minister against the environment. Well, this is also his famous statement: “If anyone recognizes that I have compromised the value of preserving Slovenian waters and the environment, let me know clearly and in a reasoned manner and I will consider the derogation.” Declaration on the referendum evening; on the evening of the vote on the waters. Mr Minister, almost 87% of the participants in the referendum on water have made a clear and reasoned message to you that you are jeopardising the value of preserving Slovenian waters and the environment. 682 000 760 citizens and citizens. This is almost twice as much as the parties of the ruling coalition received support at the 2018 elections. You said you'd consider resigning. That was July, now it's December. You've been thinking for a long time, Minister! With such an indiscretion, we should step down that July evening. And again, you didn't understand, you didn't understand the message of the people. At the polls, you said another truth: “There will certainly be a voice against the government.” And so it was. But the government, also Prime Minister Janez Janša, did not understand people's messages and messages from their own minister. The original sin of the Water Act is already in the process, that part of the drafting of the legislation that that government normally circumvents, which that government generally ignores. Minister, you have violated one of the fundamental constitutional provisions, namely Article 153 of the Constitution, which stipulates that laws must, inter alia, be in accordance with applicable international treaties. You have violated one of the most important ratified international treaties in the field of environmental and spatial protection, the Aarhus Convention or the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Legal Protection in Environmental Matters. In short, you've ruled out the expertise, you've restricted the public. After a short public debate, you added new articles to the text of the law, which later prove to be very controversial and environmentally harmful. Even in the professional public, they were unanimously civilised, and you say you didn't break any laws. You are a minister, you have violated, you have committed a direct violation of Article 34a of the Environmental Protection Act, where it is clearly stated that the Ministry must, in the process of adopting regulations that may have a significant impact on the environment, make it possible for the public to be informed of the draft regulation and to give opinions and comments. You didn't do it. Moreover, you did things in the most immoral way; in the way that you added articles that were controversial and harmful to the environment and that you knew that they were controversial and harmful to the environment – only after a short public hearing had been carried out did you add to the legal text. Minister Vizjak, before the National Assembly, which elected you to the ministerial office, you swore to work for the welfare of Slovenia. And what is the danger of drinking water by allowing construction on the coastal and coastal belts or by allowing construction and carrying out potentially hazardous activities in water protection areas? What is different than subjugating prosperity if we say that water is one of the greatest natural treasures that Slovenia has conquered? And people understood, they reacted emotionally, as they were told. Yes, of course they are! You didn't care about them, and you didn't know how to convince them that the shores of our waters wouldn't be wildly built. But you didn't understand the clear message, and you were underestimatingly trying again, this time in the Construction Law. Literally just before the decision was taken, you gave us Members a provision to circumvent the will of the people expressed in the referendum on water. We missed you and forced you to withdraw because you were afraid of another referendum. Every move made by Minister Viszak ends up mixing public with private interest because, Minister, you did not know exactly why you hired a private company in the preparation of construction and environmental legislation. You've hired a law firm and you've disbanded a ministry tasked with this particular area. And it is this lawyer's company that is also representing a Member who will obviously be able to legalise construction under this law. There are many strange coincidences here again, but they don't want to end. On the day you dissolved your legal service, your former colleague in the government, Jessenko Plitchanič, set up a consulting company in the field of environmental protection. On that day! One of his first subscribers was the Ministry of Environment. A total of EUR 400,000 contracts, in particular for the preparation of the Environmental Protection Act. It's a coincidence. But that's how these palsy political stripes work. And if we go back to the beginning for a moment and remember that Minister Andrej Vizjak has raided Bojan Petan for his greed, but these are words to appease the naive public. Even after 14 years, the pattern of negotiation under the table has not changed. Vizjak and Petan are thus still able to agree with their eyes on the privileged position of Terme Catež compared to other medical facilities. Only three months of the new government needed Terme Catež to request and achieve a change in concession and a substantial increase in the quantities of pumped water, since Minister Vizjak is taking all the necessary steps. It is with the involvement of the public that Minister Vizjak has a problem. In particular, it has a thorn in the fifth environmental NGOs, so it writes laws without them and blames them for stopping infrastructure projects because it does not understand the importance of their operation, it does not understand the importance of partnership with them. By the way, when I was Minister in the government of Marjana Sarca, I remember how much time we spent on individual matters in coordination with professional, civil society and trade unions, because we were convinced that decisions should be made together with those intended for them. As soon as the current function took place, Minister Vizjak rigorously restricted the participation of NGOs in projects requiring environmental impact assessments in the intervention law. I remember how he justified this by saying that if a couple of people made a deal at the inn, it's not enough to affect construction projects. This was the basis for the legal text. What if two people think of the inn as a multimillion-dollar deal, and one is a minister? What about then, Minister? We believe that Minister Janez Janša acts irresponsibly, untransparently and to the detriment of the environment or the state. And the affair in which he got involved revealed that this is also his way of thinking throughout years of political action. If he didn't step down on his head after the water referendum, after the affair, so-called stupid taxes, he'd have to do without delay. To expose events nearly a half-second decade ago, this does not detract from his responsibility. Such conduct was absolutely unacceptable at the time, and it is absolutely unacceptable today. The problem is even greater because Andrej Vizjak was at this time, and he was still in the most responsible position, and he transferred his political philosophy, based on his acquisition and neglect of public interest, from his mandate to his mandate. In the government of Janez Janša, they do not know how to take responsibility for their actions — since the minister who resigned is still a minister. In this government of perception, when one of the ministers has trampled all standards, it is simply not. This government works according to our principles. But when it comes to money, he quickly finds common ground with left tycoons, health providers, construction barons, regardless of color, regardless of ideology. And Minister Visjak knows more about these arrangements than anyone in this government, except probably the Prime Minister. Andrej Vizjak is Minister. Even when he got involved in an unacceptable negotiation half-second year ago, he was a minister. For a public official, he acted totally unacceptable. Even if the situation is too far away to be investigated by the anti-corruption commission, standards remain. And they were valid at the time. Turning to the excuse that the concept of managing state-owned enterprises at the time was different is the search for a rescue plant. We had marriages back then, too, Minister. Although your disclosure sounds like, "It used to be in the Wild West," we did have laws, and you violated them. You were in violation of the applicable company law at the time, you were in violation of the applicable acquisition law, you were in breach of the applicable public company management code at the time. From what we could understand in the video, you played all the roles you could — as a minister, as a manager and as a seller of state property, as a member of the Terme Catež board, as a corporate consultant and as a lobbyist. All this, Minister, but you were a minister who had nothing to talk about. But you have revealed to the citizens what it's like to hit with all canons; what it's like to see politics and the economy playing with primitive language with millions. The visionary affair shows us that the first Janshea government's players have been very well employed by tycoon methods of action under cover of the fight against the tycoon. Today, under this government, we are talking about takunization of the area. Economic tycoons have exhausted businesses, political tycoons are now draining the country. The matter of political hygiene is the resignation of Minister Andrej Visiak. The issue of at least minimum responsibility to citizens would be the resignation of the government of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. You received the reply of the Minister for Environment and Space for Interpellation on 26 November 2021. I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. To Andre Visiak for explanation of written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! I completely reject the interpretation as unfounded and based on illegal listening and sound editing of those that were recorded 14 years ago. However, I am pleased that interpellation is an opportunity to explain the background of the situation at that time when I wanted to prevent the tycoon Bojan Petan and his network of companies from taking over Terme Catež and thereby significantly damaging state property. Yes, the proponents, I'm a lobbyist, I'm a lobbyist of the state and state property. And I will always take it that no harm comes to him and as a result, no harm comes to the taxpayers! I've been doing this my whole life and I'm here today. It is quite amazing, honourable Members, that some in this country can harm the country for hundreds of millions of euros, do not pay a tax of more than EUR 5 million on capital gains in 2008, which reveals Marina Portorož’s annual report, which everyone can see on the website, has been in criminal proceedings for decades – by the way, since 2014, when house investigations were carried out, only in the first months – and nothing has happened to these people. Nothing happens. On the contrary, for their work they are still rewarded with executive positions in companies where they are also owned by the state, so they continue to run these looted high-paying companies and sell the so-called truth through the media in their possession, and with their fellows, such as the Departures of Empires, they daily pump Slovenian citizens with inventions at the expense of the government and the ruling parties. The perceptions of interpolation refer to a 14-year-old video. The conversation was definitely secretly recorded in the premises in the Terme Catež area and was actually played on the TV POP TV 24UR AT NIGHT three times. For the first time on 18 October this year, the editing was published, as the tonic expert has undoubtedly found. And no one has ever denied the findings of a ton expert, no one. On 18 October, on POP TV was installed and on the basis of this video was part of the media and, of course, you, the opposition policy, forged the so-called “stupid taxes” affair. Never in my life have I said and led anyone to tax evasion or tax evasion if the tax is to be paid. Never and never! And I'm not gonna do that either. But I prevented Tycoon Bojan Petan from doing a bad job when, with the money of Terme Catež, with 30 million Terme Catež, I bought shares of the same company from the subsidiaries, thereby impoverished the company. Since EUR 30 million for a company with an annual income of EUR 40 million, EBITDA, the company’s cash flow is EUR 12 million, this is unimaginable, this is harmful, destructive for the company, and should pay the tax; and he did not pay it. I have to defend myself in front of you today for this mounted affair, this staged affair, and the one who didn't pay taxes, nothing happened to him. There is no financial investigation, no so-called sanctions have been imposed and it continues to run this high-paying company well. By the way, Bojan Petan is also interesting when he did not make successful economic operators from the companies he took over, but he buried them to himself and his family, or to the nearest one, with the opportunity to make an excellent annual income. This is what many media outlets have written about, respected, can Google about, just type Bojan Petan and crime will be added to you in a series of articles in 2007, 2014, when the house investigations were conducted with him, when criminal charges were filed and also in 2021, when the trial was initiated before a court in Koper for the injury of Marine Portorož shareholders. So, on the one hand, we have a person who is evident in a number of criminal proceedings that have damaged state property – I will also say how much, how much, and with what jobs – and on the other hand we have me who fought at the time to avoid it. Look, I have video clips here in 2007, when I, as Minister of Economy, also publicly defended the interests of the state. “ Events in Terme Catež are a crime, ” I said at the time, and this was also recorded by a reporter in Finance 23. Seven. 2007 [[…]] Since then, Mr Petan has continued to run this same company, still for extraordinary wages, while he has damaged the country for more than 100 million euros. If this is justice, Your Honor, then we are indeed on a very bad path. And let's go in a row, how things have been going on, so it'll actually be clear as a white day. The video released, which was later published, is said to be 3. 11, about 14 days after the first, it also clearly proves that I have never talked about paying taxes being stupid. Never. That the first video was mounted and then it got caught that I was demented now because the second one wasn't that he wasn't the first. The first one was mounted, clearly identified. The harmful takeover of Terme Catež by companies on the Bojana Petana network took place in several steps. They're all scandalous for the behavior of people on Bojan Petan's network, and I'll count them. In the first half of 2006 Maxima ID – by the way, in Maximi ID was also leading Bojan Petan – sold a 10% share of Terme Čatež takunski Factor Banka and later Erste Bank to the fiduciary account of Pivovarna Laško, where Boško Šrot was behind. Why is that so controversial? By then, the country — NLB was also state-wide — had 35 percent of its share in the company and Bojan Petan had 30 percent. Therefore, by selling the 10 % share of the country's quota, the country lost a practically control stake in this company and the takeover path of Bojan Petan was opened. The then leaders in NLB – Kramar, Matthew Narat – have, by the way, now also made it possible for the management of the Factor Bank – of course, to enable Petan to reach this controlling share. Furthermore, in the first half of 2008, there was a purchase of the shares of the dependent companies Terme Catež, Marine Portorož, which owned approximately 10 % of the shares of Term Catež, and of the tourism company Portorož, which had a share of approximately 7 %. The purchase is made by Terme Catež and the purchase is paid 31.2 million euros, followed by the withdrawal of these shares. The respected, described withdrawal of shares, the purchase and withdrawal of Terme Catež shares, was financially strong and fatally exhausting this society and, according to my statements at the time, it was a criminal and stupid act. As a result, Marina Portorož and the Portorož Tourist Company also had to pay the capital profit tax, which they had never paid. To Petan, who was then, by the way, the President of the Marine Portorož Supervisory Board, nothing has happened until today. The Financial Administration doesn't know about this. He doesn't know about tax evasion. You hide, or I, or anyone taxing thousands of euros, and you'll see what happens to you. No, but these are people, fellows, this is the deep country we like to talk about, and nothing happens. Nothing, never nothing! And if I then, in my conversation with Bojan Petan, who, by the way, was private, informal, threatened Bojan Petan also with the judiciary and provisional orders and inappropriate statements that you produced today, I did so in the form of a setup, a passion to prevent harmful acts and damage to state property. That this was a harmful act is proved by the figures published in the annual reports. You can look at them, they're available on the website. And let's see where Terme Catež was in 2007 before this harmful takeover. Revenue: a good €41 million, EBITDA or cash flow, that is depreciation with a profit of €12.7 million, a net debt of €35 million, an investment of €12 million, a net debt of EBITDA 2.8; that is to say how much the company is indebted to the free cash flow. Share at the time, market value, EUR 340. Let us see 2019, not 2020, which has already been infected by the epidemic and which has led to a rather poor situation for tourism companies. Terme Catež in 2019, i.e. after this takeover, when the masters have taken over a few years, the revenues fall by 12 million, from 41 to 29, the cash flow from 12.7 to 7.3, the net financial debt increases from 35 to 44 million, with part of the assets sold. That's not comparable, because the part was sold, and yet he was even more in charge. The investment is more than twice lower, the market value of shares is ten times lower and the EBITDA ratio or the EBITDA net financial debt is six times lower. In 2020, by the way, it is tenfold. In economic theory, anyone who knows anything or knows whether or not he has a basic economic education knows that when he passes this ratio of the net debt of EBITDA worse than 4 and 5, the company is virtually disabled, pays its obligations to creditors and is actually in front of bankruptcy. In Terme Catež today this factor is ten times. These are the numbers that I justify and are proving today that Petan’s work at the time was harmful to the company, to the employees of this company – who, by the way – receive a lousy salary, to the country which is still an important owner in this company. Consider Terme Olimia, a similar economic operator with a similar activity in a similar region, very close to the border, in fact at a worse location. Revenue from Terme Olimia in 2007 - 14 and a half million, in 2019 - 25.5. Increase your income. The EBITDA increased from €3.7 million to €7.7 million. Net profit was paid from 1 million in 2007 to 3 million in 2019. This is a company, which was eventually run by our or my ministerial colleague Zdravko Restoršek. Company, successful company. And we have a tycoon named Bojan Petan, who is now directly protected by this interpellation by the opposition, and we actually have another company. The country did not only lose its losses here at Terme Catež, but it also lost its losses in the DZS group. In fact, in 2018 the DZS transferred around €80 million of the debt of the then group to the bad bank, only works: that is, DZS, Work Sales and Terme Catež - Sorry, that was before – and in 2017 it was sold to private investors under York for a total of €41 million. So the country lost 39 million euros in its debts. Epilogue: The way I was managing capital investments before 2010 was quite different from today, which was what I wanted to do at the time as Minister of Economy to prevent – by the way. At that time, we were approaching the OECD in 2010 and therefore had to meet certain strict conditions. And in this respect, of course, we have also completely changed the concept of capital investment management. The Capital Investment Management Act was adopted, the Agency was established on capital investment management and the matter has changed. And the government went to the agency. By 2010, ministers and state secretaries were sitting in the supervisory boards of companies - by the way, I was the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plant. My then Secretary of State, Adrian Starina Kosem, was the president of the Kada Supervisory Board, the Capital Society, which owned Terme Catež. And now you're telling me it was an illegal involvement? At that time, we got involved because this was also our assignment, and today someone could tell me that I had abandoned my duty if I had not tried to stop it. By the way, everyone expected the state to rescue Mura, so that we could save the rest of the companies. Where administrations have actually failed, everyone has watched the minister do what the government will do, and the state has also saved the company. Now that we've tried to stop the damage, it's some kind of unacceptable involvement. So, the epilogue is that today the country in Terme Catež is 28% owner and has zero value. The value of assets is nothing in such an over-indebted society. State banks and DUTB have suffered at least €39 million in damages, due to poor business in the last 15 years, profits have been virtually negligible and in the course of all these years, Terme Catež has paid only once; and that is only half a million euros. This is what we have today, until then, a successful company. As I have already said, there is a court case against Bojan Petan before the Koper District Court. This case took place in 2014 when the NPU carried out 30 house investigations. And at that time, the portal Siol.net wrote: “With an investigation into his associates, which in a particular case would allow Petan’s DZS 20 million Euros of property benefit, the time of Bojan Petan, who, due to political and banking ties, was long convinced that he was inviolable to law enforcement authorities, at the head of the DZS?” This was a 2016 issue. No, honey, it didn't run out. It didn't run out! The Lord is still there, doing his work further. And today I must also defend myself because of him and his dealings at that time, or illegal hearings! Now there are some other things from interpolation. I mean, with respect, if you read the answer, it's a chronological summary of everything that is evident from the annual reports. If anyone else is interested in anything in particular, ask. But I've got a pretty good conscience here. The Terme Catež Concession, too, was an obvious. Mr Bojan Petan has always avoided paying concessions and regulating the concession relationship in Terme Catež for a variety of reasons. Also because he didn't have proper ownership of the wells. Finally, we arranged these things and awarded a concession for the amount of water that he has so far pumped, and not a cubit more. But because we couldn't know how much water he was pumping because he didn't have any measuring devices installed on the wells, he didn't measure the amount of water, he didn't measure the temperature of the water. In fact, they did not measure and avoid anything that could cause any financial burden, so we ordered a study of the Geological Survey, which is the only competent one to do so. According to the Geological Survey – by the way, the Geological Survey has also responded publicly and published on its websites this information that this aquifer is still capable of transporting EUR 2.5 million without any harmful consequences. And on this basis, we assessed the water consumption of 2.2 million cubic metres per year. However, Mr Bojan Petan and Terme Catež, under the signed concession contract, must then carry out the prescribed monitoring, measure the quantity of water, the temperature, take care of the thermal use of water, do not send this water uncooled into the watercourses and must pay the concession fee four times as much as before. Until then, Mr Petan, who you are advocating – obviously because this concession is in your nose – has paid between €80 000 and €100,000 per year and will now have to pay about €400,000. That's the result, we've arranged a concessional relationship that no one's ever regulated before. Petrol shares. That any Slovenian citizen or minister, a official, will have to defend himself because he buys shares of Slovenian companies in a transparent, public way through the stock exchange, because it is a public limited company, I never thought. I bought shares in March and May last year when the government extended the regulation of oil derivatives prices. By the way, deregulation started a long time ago in 2016, when we first deregulated the fuel oil, then we deregulated the prices of oil derivatives on highways and then off highways in September 2020. In short, the process of deregulation began substantially before that. Look, I was buying shares in March and May, when there was no spirit or hearing about deregulation, because it was extended by March of the regulation until autumn. And everyone, respectable, could have bought each of you back in October, after deregulation, at the same price as it was in March and May; this comes out of that graph. At the time, the stock price was 300 Euros for the whole October for the stock, and anyone could buy it, anyone. Why didn't you? And now you're telling me I did. Now that it has grown, of course it is the business of this company. All of October! This detracts all those who say that deregulation caused some stock leap and that in the time before deregulation the price was low after deregulation was high. That's not true! It was still at around 300 euros per share in October. There's one in there with his head. He doesn't care about the number. Moreover, this purchase has been analysed by both the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Securities Market Agency. Both institutions have stopped the procedure because they have not identified the smallest irregularities. So much for that. I'd touch the Waters and Referendum Act. I believe and believe that my experts at the Ministry of the Environment and Space were useful, good, useful for Slovenian waters and for the protection of Slovenian waters. Regrettably, however, unwarranted allegations of water threats, the prevention of access to rivers, lakes and seas, the privatisation of water resources and the like have been caught in the referendum campaign. These findings had nothing to do with the proposed law, no connection, but they did, and people reacted as they did. And then soon after that, I was asked to resign. Let's take a look at how the SD ministers retreated in similar situations. Reference is made to the case of the so-called Technical Law on Deleted in the Government of Anton Ropa, where Minister of the Interior Rado Bohinc was voted on by almost 95 per cent of voters and voters at the time of election. Has Minister Rado Bohinc resigned? And here we have double vats; now you invite me to resign because of one referendum; on the other hand – have your ministers resigned? But that's not all, dear colleagues from SD. Let us recall your Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik, who lost three successive referendums. First, the Small Labour Act at 34% of 80% of the vote against, the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment at 40% of the vote against, the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance at 40% of the voter and electorate against. Minister Ivan Svetlik has not resigned. He said that people don't understand the need to accept reforms, but now I see the statements of the lost are not these, respected colleagues, double criteria? [[…]] Let us ask ourselves one more question: How many people have supported the Law on Waters, a novel of the Law on Water? The new Water Act has supported more than 104 thousand electorates and voters. Dear Social Democrats, how many people have supported you in the last election to the National Assembly? Eighty-seven thousand. [[advertising from the hall]] Eighty-seven thousand! How much did Alenka Bratushek support? More than twice as much as the Water Act, 45 grand. Let's ask ourselves who backed it up. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, of course it is, math is clean, numbers are. The referendum supported 104 thousand people, but you were hit by 87,000 people. And you'll tell me who to give up. In full, it is also clear that when adopting legislation, we do not respect the Aarhus Convention, other provisions, in particular Article 143 of the Environmental Protection Act on public participation. In all cases, the marriage period was respected. In all cases. The only Water Act was pointed at your nose, where, because of all the six articles that were tanned with this law, there were only two of them, which were transitional provisions, were not substantive at all — four articles. The law had 2, 3 pages, with justification and introduction, and was a 14-day public hearing, which is in line with the Environmental Protection Act, since it was not a matter of systematic changes to the regulation. The law then changed significantly in the National Assembly on the basis of various amendments. But this is an autonomous right of the National Assembly. I cannot take any responsibility for Parliament's decisions as a minister, nor as a government. I think this is entirely in line with the division of power in this country. And at the end of the day, let me take note of certain decisions made by the National Assembly! The National Assembly has every right to reject the law as inappropriate, to vote against it, to correct it, to change it, and here, honourable Members and Members, is an entirely unfounded fault for anything to bring down on me, no. As far as the Environmental Protection Act is concerned, where we dispose of final waste, I believe that the key problem and heart is also these interpretations. In fact, so far, at the expense of companies handling waste packaging, and taxpayers, the owners of these companies have collected fat profits. On the one hand, this was paid by those who left the waste everywhere, and on the other hand by the State when it collected the unscrupulous waste from the warehouse because these companies did not want to take it. And the change in the system pressured by the new law on environmental protection is certainly not conducive to these companies. Garbage manufacturers, waste packaging manufacturers themselves will set up an organisation that will deal most effectively with these wastes and will no longer be left to waste in public service warehouses and to the exposure of the state budget. Therefore, we will enforce the producer's extended liability system in all the provisions of this important provision when waste producers have to take care of waste in an organisational and financial manner. Look, last year we're only under intervention laws, and a year ago, all governments, committed €13 million to clean up what companies should do to deal with waste packaging from warehouses. They are constantly complaining about an environmental permit issued. Everything the state does is challenged only in order to avoid the need to assume obligations. It's all about money. And Visjak, or all those who advocate that order should arise here, is on the way to this arrangement, and therefore we must be removed from the deciding ranks in order to be all as before; these are swamps of waste, fires, and similar anomalies. Look, I swore we'd end this. Now I wonder, whose side are you, the respected Bear – the gentleman who read this introduction – the capital or the public interest? So, in this Environmental Protection Act we have been preparing, in fact, I will not say excessively, but more than is foreseen and prescribed, we have included interested public, NGOs, economic associations. And that's why the solutions are consistent. As far as waste is concerned, we are united with the non-governmental sector, that this is the only way for the future of Slovenia, and that is why many NGOs have expressed this support, which is of course not news and that is why you will rarely read it. Because if the ministry ever gets caught up with the non-governmental sector, it's not news. This is not news, Your Honor. The news is, if it's cool, if it's a conflict, if we're on different shores – that's news! I have even listed in Annex 3 a set of key achievements of the Ministry. You can read them. Over 50 approved projects from the agreement for the development of regions all over Slovenia. A substantial increase in the money for managing maintenance watercourses from 13 to 50 million. The substantial acceleration of housing construction and, last but not least, the successful EU representation at COP26 in Glasgow during the Slovenian Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group List Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u6	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We did not propose to the opposition the release of Bojan Petan, an entrepreneur from places where Minister Vizjak also resides. We have proposed the discharge of Minister Visiak because we are reading him, proving violations of the Constitution, laws and certain personality traits that are not appropriate for you to perform a public function. I would also like to point out that Minister Vizjak is a member of the Slovenian government, which has all the leverage, insofar as anyone in this country does not pay taxes – like Minister Dikaucič, who has a suspicion of tax evasion and is tried before a court in Murska Sobota – if he violates legislation if he has committed any criminal act to initiate proceedings. Some director of Furs, who is close to SDS and New Slovenia, drives a taxpayer to lunch. Perhaps you should deal with this tax evasion that Minister Vizjak presented here today. Maybe the police should be involved when the SDS set up the police director and everyone else. I don't know, we are here today discussing the work, the actions of the Minister for Environment and Space, which is called Mr Andrej Vizjak; not Bojan Petan, who we've been hearing about for 20 minutes, and the next 10 minutes more or less misleading. I will quote once again the thought quoted by our colleague LMŠ Rudi Medved from Angela Merkel: “Who decides to devote his life to politics knows that his main task is not to serve money.” Minister Vizjak, speaking of cubic meters of water about Terme Catež, made a mistake and twice mentioned EUR 2.5 million. I'm not adding anything else. And if we put this thought in the context of what is happening with us under the government of SDS and New Slovenia and the customers and Members who are experiencing their transformation at that time, we find that the words of Angela Merkel some simply do not want, do not want, do not understand. But in the LMŠ we are aware that it is for everyone who steps on the political floor to understand that his basic task is democratic, transparent, professional and respectful to work for the well-being of all; not just those who have elected us. All of them. To work for the community, while respecting the rule of law: constitution, laws and so on. Otherwise, such a person must seek another profession. In addition, in the LMŠ we are aware that politics must always look at the whole forest, not the individual tree, and that it will be able to look beyond one mandate – not only until the next elections, and that it is ready to destroy the country for good results in the next elections. Over one term. Therefore, it is aware of its responsibilities to future generations, which is still important in relation to the environment and our natural goods. These fundamentals that I have now listed have been completely disrupted by this government. In particular, ministers and Members should avoid all circumstances that could lead to conflicts of interest or their principles, its integrity, thereby losing confidence in people. Once again, the Minister and Members not only represent those who have elected us, but all of us; also those who have not elected us. Minister Visjak, no matter how he turns this mathematics about the referendum and this number, has lost the confidence of the people at the referendum. At the referendum, nearly 690,000 citizens and citizens told him. In comparison, because Minister Vizjak also made this comparison for the five parties supported by him in this National Assembly; for the SDS, New Slovenia, SMC, Desus Group and the SNS party, 453 thousand people voted. 240 thousand less than your harmful Water Act has rejected at the referendum – if you are already opening up how many people voted for what. But you, Minister and President of the Government and Nova Slovenija and SMC miss all this. The Minister has not resigned or offered his resignation, the Prime Minister has not proposed a discharge, the coalition partners have said much, done nothing. A special case is Nova Slovenija. In public, they confessed how terrible it was, what Minister Vizjak had done, that they had no more support for them, but they would do nothing. They will not jeopardize their functions in government, state-owned enterprises, they will not jeopardize their influence, their power. But all together, Minister of Respect, you underestimate people. You're ignoring the referendum message. Your coalition partners also ignore all the violations that led to the referendum and for which you are responsible, regardless of whether any of these were accepted in the National Assembly. If you will remember – I think you have reached a decision on 8 March – the government has taken a decision, this is what your government has stated that you agreed with the amendment of the coalition in the National Assembly to the Water Act. This is news on Government 8. 3. So you've agreed to what these "embassies of the government coalition" have done past you. But we're going to those violations that we're reading to you. In addition to the Constitution and legislation, we see damage to the state budget and a conscious disregard for the public interest, as well as personality, moral and ethical inadequacy for the minister's role. Why we say that in LMSH, I'll try to explain. If we want to understand the whole picture, we still have to go back 14 years when Minister Visjak was the first Minister of Economy to be caught listening. The “stupid tax” affair was named because the Minister had led the entrepreneur to avoid paying the tax to the State. But it was not only a matter of suspicion of tax evasion, but the content of the talks between the minister and the tycoon shows how Janez Janša's first government violated all the principles of corporate governance, violating legislation in this area. That's the key message. And why do we need to understand this message in this way? Because in the first government of Janez Janša, if you remember the sale of Mercator to Laško Pivovarna and Istrabenz in exchange for work and evening, and this all happened in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the Taiwanation began with us. And Petan is the result of the actions of the first Janshea government. None of this has ended well for Slovenian companies, not for the country, not for people. But the tycoonization that we've been hearing about for 20 minutes and the economic destruction that the first Yanshe government has been doing are not part of the interpolation. But since the minister allowed himself to spend 20 minutes explaining something that wasn't part of the interpretation, I also changed my opening remarks a little bit. Anyway, let's go to the other Janša government. In this other Janša government, Minister Vizjak purchased Telekom's shares, only the day after the government secretly agreed to pay higher dividends than they had anticipated. We could speculate and say that the Minister's purchase of shares also led to a lot of talk about the country privatising Telekom. Yes, you can. He was definitely buying shares from a state-owned company as a minister; someone who was very well informed. And so again in the current government, the third government of Janez Janša, when the minister buys Petrol shares, and, look, the case, also in the purchase of Petrol shares, is then paid a record dividend. But things went even better this time. If the minister bought a share of around EUR 289, today the price of trading is EUR 475. And why is this sick business if I paraphrase these cryptomillionaires, whatever they are, who made a million-dollar deal with this government, with a fair government, and sold useless quick tests, why is this business a sick business for a minister? Yes, because the Prime Minister, who released a few months later, liberalised the prices of oil derivatives. It is also irrelevant that his ministry opposed the construction of new petrol services, which, of course, went back to Petrol, whose shareholder is the minister. And there is something else that casts further doubts on the whole situation. Petrol was appointed Head of the Cabinet of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Control is complete, information is available. He no longer hides himself than was done in the first government of Janez Janša, which is close to the definition of kleptocracy, the systematic rule of thieves. And the epilogue of these maneuvers was also presented by my graphic colleague Rudy Medved. Gas and diesel prices went to people and businesses in the sky, as well as the value of Petrol shares. So many coincidences that we find it hard to believe that everything is a coincidence. In addition to the amendments and additions to the Water Act, which the Minister claimed to be minor changes, Minister Vizjak proved to be misleading and preferring private interest to public interest. He favoured the private interest so much that the Ministry was prepared to violate Articles 44, 70, 70 and 153 of the Constitution. They then violated Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 34a of the Environmental Protection Act, Article 8 of the Aarhus Convention, ratified by Slovenia in 2004, and certain EU directives and resolutions. Their objective, including his, from the Minister, was very clear: to quickly, opaquely, without the involvement of the professional public and NGOs, by misleading and without seeing how this will affect our water resources, to enable the construction of all the coasts, rivers and lakes, including in the natural environment, and the construction or operation of production with hazardous substances in water protection areas. But fortunately, they failed all of us. We have prevented some changes in this National Assembly, and finally the harmful Water Act at the referendum with the plebiscite majority said: “No!” people. Let me remind you again, 104 thousand inhabitants and residents have been expressed in support of Minister Visiak, 104 thousand. 690 thousand said, “No, Minister!” 690 thousand inhabitants and inhabitants. But you don't understand it as a mistrust; even more, you had an underestimating relationship to the result, even though people didn't understand what the government wanted to do, that 690,000 people were misled. But the Water Act and what we all learned together from the Water Act or at least in the LMŠ did not stop you from still walking around environmental hooliganism. Your ministry ended in August this year, said a little after the referendum, the company Terme Catež, which is run by that entrepreneur, who we have been hearing about for 20 minutes, has been able to draw on huge additional amounts of thermal water, although according to our information this is contrary to the current environmental policy, has warned the competent and also the professions. By doing so, I hope that we are wrong, the risk of draining groundwater storage in the Brežice area has increased. But it is our public interest, some others for private, which they have been proving for 14 years, and it has always been their private interest because they take power as their own. Let us mention here the attempt of the government coalition and the Minister of Vision to bypass the referendum decision. What the Water Act fell on. In autumn of this year, he wanted to make it possible to build on some coastal or coastal belts past the security guards provided for by the Water Act. A few months after the referendum, a rehearsal. Fortunately, he failed because of pressure from the opposition, the profession and the threat to the referendum. And Minister Visjak did not make just one mistake under the Water Act. It's not ignorance, it's inexperience, it's a pattern of action. The fact is, in environmental law, the Minister is consciously giving priority to partial private interests at the expense of irreparable damage to our waters, nature and people. But Minister Visjak doesn't even step out of this government. On second thought, most ministers and ministers are alike. Not all of them, most of them. Together with members of the government coalition, they form a team responsible for the shameless destruction of the rule of law and democratic foundations, the destruction of the stability of public finances, the violation of human rights, the attack on public good, the subjugation of the media, the pressure on the judiciary, the destruction of the educational system and public health and civil society and professions, harmful international policy, the reduction of communication standards. Not to mention how this government, unfortunately for all of us, failed to manage the epidemic, in which, from 13 March last year, every three hours, a resident of the Republic of Slovenia with a name and surname died due to covid. But there's something else we can learn at this time. With his team and with the cooperation of New Slovenia, the distinguished President of the Government has always shown himself in public as a great fighter against the tycoons. We have also heard Minister Visiak fight against the tycoon Petan, but he still works because of the deep state. But he forgot to tell the minister that he was in power to act now if he had evidence. But no. I'll tell you why not. Because it's just your game! You're playing! You deceive the public, you make the impression that you are fighting the tycoons, and you are basically hanging out with them in camps in Croatia, golf courses, yachts, at their home, at birthday parties [[…]] [[advertised from the hall]] Not you, this government team I'm talking about, and you're secretly doing business, you're agreeing to amend the legislation, how the calls will be adjusted, or how Members and Members will destroy the competition. [[…]] In fact, this government team has taken over the operation of the tycoons, with the difference that their goal is to privatise power and plunder the country. Let me finish. The Minister of Environment and Space should, by its function, be the Ombudsman of the environment, nature and public interest. But Minister Vizjak is everything but what we really believe in in LMŠ. In fact, it constantly proves that it is the threat to the environment itself, that the minister is against the environment, against drinking water, and that is why in this situation, we are firmly convinced, he cannot and must not remain if we have anything to do with the future. We will therefore vote in favour of its resolution in the LMŠ for the environment, for nature, for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u8	Dear Members, distinguished Members, citizens and citizens, Mr Andrej Vizjak! After everything I've seen and what I've heard in your introductory address today, it's hardly right to welcome you with the title of the ministerial function, which you don't perform. Moreover, in the current term, and before that, you have been pursuing a path to actions that have nothing to do with the well-being of this country and its citizens and citizens. Of course, we have great connections with very partisan, partly personal interests. As a long-standing political official, you boasted over the years in the opposition that you were allowed practically everything as a minister. Mr Vizjak, in the course of a long and repeated ministerial function, you have lost or never had the awareness that being a minister does not mean to own a bonus for hidden agreements, for meddling in state authorities, businesses, for the total ignorance of civil society, for total ignorance of enough people to lead to tax evasion. No citizen and citizen has this bonus if we only live in a legal country for which the party you come from is so pleased to say that it is two parallel worlds; for the rule of law first- and second-class. And yes, you may have forgotten at all that in your SDS party you still have a third category, a category of the rule of law for political Februarys that are not subject to anything or third-party eggs to judges, a statement of stupid taxes and ignorance of 670,000 citizens and citizens something completely normal. How does this sound, Mr. Vizjak, your repeated written statement, "I will respect constitutional order, follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia"? Shall I tell you? Sounds grotesque. It sounds like a mockery of people who, despite a great lack of confidence in politics, still believe at least little that ministers and ministers will work in their and in the good of the countries. Dear colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, we have yet another interpretation of the work of the Minister of the current government. I regret to say that in a given situation, health and social crises, irrespective of our opposition role, would rightly want a government capable of coping with the pressing problems of the given time. It's been a good year and a half in our country. The fact is, in all these crises, this government has been reluctant to exceed the short-sightedness of the constant struggle for power for a year and a half, it has also caused a political and resulting social crisis and has been subject to a type of interpretation. Since the political crisis caused by it is not merely conditioned by the criterion of an unstable and constantly questionable coalition majority in adopting measures, it is primarily an inability to offer a vision for a better tomorrow with a clear plan and work on how to realize it. In short: no vision, no plans. Unfortunately, this government is only further undermining the infamous record of deepening the political crisis, which is becoming increasingly engrossed in all the fabric of our society, even in the field of the environment. Dear Interpeller Mr. Visjak, the thesis is essentially a simple force. If we worked in favour of Slovenia to make it increasingly resistant to the acute threat of climate change, if, in the exercise of this force, there were important functions calling for, if it did not move towards guidance and protecting the environment, if we were determined to adopt sectoral legislation that would follow the constitutional definition of the right to drinking water, if we were to listen and, together with civil society, prepare measures resulting from the protection of our environment, then today we would not sit here and defend ourselves against MEPs and Members. Unfortunately, there are a lot of these Cheyennes, a respected minister, but a little bit of a solution. But if they were, they were such that there were a lot of disapproval and anger between our citizens and our citizens. This is because people feel that you are not their ally or ally of the necessary changes; changes that, if I say so, would be prepared in a more and more fashionable manner for Slovenia at an ever faster pace of green policies, which are being implemented by other European countries with great acceleration. Our country, with such a policy-making attitude towards environmental challenges, not only is it unable to do what is necessary, it seems that you have also decided to ignore the urgent and desired changes on purpose. Ignorance, I know that it is a difficult expression when we evaluate the work of politics, but I do not find, although I would strongly like to see more appropriate statements of the fact that the ruling coalition has rejected the motion for a resolution on the declaration of the climate and environmental crisis in Slovenia three times. Where have you been, Minister, to call on coalition Members and Members, first among those responsible, to support the resolution in order to at least open the window of opportunity for concrete measures that should go beyond political divisions in the interests of accountability to people and the environment? You have not been heard, although you should have been the loudest, motivation for adopting proposals for better dealing with the climate crisis. However, it appears that the Ministry has been very motivated in the adoption of the Law on Water, although clear warnings to the civil public, professions, environmental protection organisations were coming before the adoption, that the proposed solutions were not good. That you are not in line with better, environmentally friendly management of our great wealth, with water. Rather than that, you insisted on your own. While I understand that the proposed news can never be completely enjoyed by everyone. I also understand that it is impossible to accommodate all the comments. However, it cannot be understood that despite the widespread rebellion, protests, warnings, well-intentioned appeals that something is seriously wrong, you have persisted, of course, to the bitter end. In the middle of the summer, in the referendum, 682 000 citizens and citizens gave you a clear lack of confidence not only about the solutions to the proposal but also about your way of working. As overly politicians, we could know that trust in people is the most important virtue on which it can be built and otherwise loses everything. And you, Mr. Visac, have lost. Perhaps not the ministerial function that we will vote on today, but you have lost credibility, you have lost the opportunity to deal effectively with difficult but powerful issues of environmental and spatial nature. Let me make this simple. Do you still have the name of credibility? As Minister, I'm afraid not. If we still drop the standards of expectation, a political long-termer like yourself may be expected to have problems for which you do not have the right solutions, or because of some political accounts of your superiors, at least leave them alone. And while we are already at the minimum standards expected, at least sectoral legislation could be drawn up at the Ministry to implement the constitutional provision on drinking water, and you have not done so. At least we could try to prove ourselves to be a person who at least cares little about solving the climate crisis and publicly supported the resolution on the declaration of the climate and environmental crisis, but you did not do it; instead, we are doing it in the opposition. You once expressed the respect and necessity of social dialogue as Minister of Labour. We could also know now that without dialogue there is no way forward, there is no happy ending, because it is not just you or us; it is not just a political count of the votes sent, but much more important things. It's about what country we're going to live in, how we're going to deal with the environment, how we're going to deal with water resources, how we're going to create a place for a better future for our children, especially when we're living with man and nature. You have had many opportunities in your hands, Mr Vizjak, to make a breakthrough in an area that is specific, which requires less policy and more cooperation with civil society. With political and negotiating experiences that you cannot challenge, the ministry could be transformed into an open social platform in the face of challenges. One who is capable of moving beyond the political rigidity of every government. First, with dynamic processes for several green policies that have become, if you admit it or not, the themes of the future. Mr Vizjak, this minimum trust and many of the opportunities that were given to you on the day of the ministerial function have been completely lost; not once, but repeatedly. Pike in and out of your ministry is not only a defeat in the area you represent, but a wiretap affair. This came at the most delicate time on the day when the ruling policy is justified by the greatest mistrust of citizens and citizens. When the last illusions finally broke out that the current government will save its face by constantly repeating the facts, by accusing everyone and everyone of its delusions, with a non-critical view of the increasingly demonstrated aspects of political involvement in all spheres of society, including the economy. The public interest, which should be represented by the minister and the politicians, has sunk in this affair of inconclusive excuses because I wanted something good for the country. Leading to tax evasion, mixing through the boards of state-owned companies, there is no disdain in neither in the legal provisions nor in the public domain for morals and integrity, Mr Vizjak, I am not even talking about. However, let me remind you, Mr Vizjak, your task and duty as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to act in the public interest. So says Article 113 of the Constitution, and you have made a public oath before the National Assembly to keep it as a minister. This is not what we invented in the opposition, which you're telling us is that all the interpolation points listed are groundless. Mr Vizjak, with everything that you have done wrong as Minister of Environment and Space and have not done what is good, this interpretation is still well founded. In fact, I can argue that the right one, perhaps informally, or the most legitimate interpretation has already been experienced at the referendum of the Water Act. Looks like it didn't fall through. The message of more than 680,000 people to you and your colleagues in the government obviously doesn't mean much. This seems stupid to you. Well, Mr. Secretary, it's not stupid for us, of course. Also, threats that you will break an egg to a judge, if necessary, do not appear in the vocabulary of the responsible holder of an important public function, Mr Vizjak, but in the vocabulary of the mafia groups. All of this is extremely worrying and, of course, has nothing to do with the responsible management of an important ministry. Likewise today, of course, I do not expect you to do what you should already do on 11 July this year, on the day of the referendum of the Water Act. However, our eyes and eyes of the Slovenian public are today focused on Members and Members of the coalition parties, including New Slovenia, who, however, has worked hard to admit that everything in your work has not been as it should have been. If coalition Members and Members today vote against the interpretation or seek a way out of the constancy generated by the abstention, this means that they take responsibility for your actions, and they also support these actions. However, with all this hearing, we believe, not less than once, that you must leave your post without delay, so we will, of course, all of us will agree to interpellation against you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Dear Minister, let me begin by telling you that today the agenda item is not the interpretation of Tycoon Bojan Petan or the Parliament, which has adopted the environmentally harmful laws that you have drawn up and signed. Today there is an interpretation of the village, which is not the Minister of the Environment. You're the minister of concrete, and you act like you're the minister of the economy. Throughout your term of office, you support and propose environmentally harmful laws, give priority to capital and not to nature and people. You knowingly deceive, even lie and ignore the opinion of the profession and oppose environmental organisations and, as far as possible, limit public participation. By the way, you take the credit and invest in the oil industry, just before the government, which you are a member of, in favour of the profits of the oil industry in our country, definitively deregulations the prices of oil derivatives and so increase your assets by a few tens of thousands of euros overnight. But clearly, you're innocent, as you always insist. That the minister has clean hands in the “stupid tax” affair, we believe about as much as the minister's pursuit of clean water. Now he's trying his SDS with excuses that it's images of an informal nature, which is just ridiculous, not to say absurd. Then, Minister of Economy Andrej Vizjak and Tycoon Bojan Petan, and not neighbour Andrej and neighbor Bojan, agreed in an hour on how to take over the state company, how to avoid paying stupid taxes and how to crush the judges' balls. But the minister is not satisfied with anything, at least his conscience. The minister's chair is still round, although in every normal democratic country it should have been flushed by the villain of the July referendum on waters, when the people of history, with the plebiscite “no”, stopped his capital from being kind and environmentally harmful to the Water Act. Every minister in every normal and democratic country, after such a professional and political fiasco, should assume political responsibility and, in accordance with political hygiene and minimum democratic standards, should step down. If Slovenia were even close to a normal and democratic state under this government, it is unfortunately not anymore for almost two years. That grotesque did not see the end, even now that the minister knew about the interpolation, he quietly continued his old good corrupt practices, which he had bent on the Commission to prevent corruption. The construction law, adopted at the November meeting of the National Assembly, helped to prepare as many legal offices as possible Neffat, which in the Black House story is also represented by Member Desus Branko Simonovic, who will now be able to legalise his black construction with a sea view. Not to mention another attempt by this government so dearly loved by the underlings, who, if they failed to withdraw it in the opposition, according to the experts, would constitute the legalisation of precisely those solutions against which the people in the referendum on the Water Act were mass-proclaimed. This clearly shows that the Minister of Vision does not stop purely, absolutely nothing; no historical referendum defeat, no listening to the “stupid tax” affair, not the fact that he recently wrote the research news portal Necensurirano.si, the termam granted permission to pump additional thermal water, which critics have labeled as environmental crime. The symbiosis between Andre and Bojan Petan is not over. It is clear that the thirst between the SDS, the minister and the tycoon is that it acts as a well-oiled bicycle all the time. The various capital and tycoon networks are apparently ministers of the most popular ecosystem, which is particularly well-maintained. It is not a sensitive ecosystem of the Mura River, for example, where it does not care at all if foreign multinational Ascent Resources, with its hydraulic cracking of the stones when natural gas is produced in Petišovci, may cause its destruction. He doesn't care. Nor is it that the ecosystem along the Mura River is included on Unesc's map as a world unique, which must be protected in particular. No! No! The Minister, who is interested in the economy and business, although the Minister of the Environment, has already rejected five times the amendment of the Mining Act, with which we want to ban the environment and health of people, which threatens fracking, which is banned by more and more countries. Its succinct arguments no longer make any sense to quote. Maybe it was just that they were systolically close to the famous arguments that he had full mouth against the plebiscitely rejected Water Act. As a local sheriff, Minister Vizjak gave a new gift to old pal Petan. This time more thermal water. Taist Petan, who was arrested by the minister on hearings that the minister claims today to be editing, even though forensics say the footage is authentic. And, Minister, they're not mounted, they're just cut off so much that when they were on TV, we hear press comments. Thus, the Minister gave a gift to Taist Petan, who is interpolated by the Minister for his own interpretation as the largest tycoon pest, and portrays himself as the savior of the state, as he himself said, who is the lobbyist of the state and you do not subscribe to the tycoon networks. It's strange that with a thief like that today, he went back to Spain. At the time of this government, the company Terme Catež, owned by the DZS, is In each of the approximately normal countries, the Minister, in all of these affairs, and in particular the "stupid taxes" affairs, should have stepped down a long time ago. But apparently Minister Visjak has very severe political protection. Why? Because this government obviously feels like paying taxes is stupid. This is proved by the tax exemptions of the richest. They don't care about 800 million deep holes in the state budget at the annual level. Then we wonder why there is no money for public education, for public health, for local communities, for non-profit housing, for decent pensions, for combating climate change and so on. The crown of the Ministry of Vision is his statement, “Let’s shoot the judge’s balls from the affair of ‘stupid taxes’”. This crown, this statement basically shows how this government works. They force themselves to be subject to the judiciary, the police, the media. Minister Hojs, for example, our next intern, seems to be the most problematic blackmail with the recording in the "stupid tax" affair. More problematic than the minister's corrupt and illegal conduct. Therefore, respected and respected, the whole government and not only Minister Visjak should in reality resign. Minister, how do you explain this statement, "we're already going to blow the judge's balls"? Did you explain this to us today? Are you going to explain this to us today? What does that mean, Minister? When they published on POP TV in October this year the first videos of friendly talks between the Minister of Environment Andrej Visiak and the first husband of DZS Bojan Petan about business with the shares of Term Catež, Vizjak found the culprit again quickly. He accused the garbage mob of breaking the new Environmental Protection Act for the outbreak of the affair. Vizjak has silenced this law to transfer a large part of the waste packaging business now carried out by six private companies into the hands of Avery, the former director of the Mutual, and the obvious electorate and pet of the largest coalition party. Only two months after Slopak arrived, the Visionary Ministry drafted a law that will make this company a monopoly on the 20 million euro market worth of waste packaging. Today's vote, respected and respected, will be the hour of truth. We will see whether the coalition party transfer festival will continue or whether Tonin will make the announcement this time that Minister Viszak Nsi will not support it. We'll see what that means. They will vote in favour of its resolution, or will the Central Nsi, with the abstention vote, once more, show the centre in ridicule to all of us who want a country without corruption, a country in which ministers with integrity and dignity will do their work honestly, legally, transparently and responsibly in the interests of the public interest. To avoid a dilemma, today's abstention is a vote for the Minister of Vision, it is a vote for persistently undermining the environmental standards of the state's policy. It is a voice for partisan, corrupt, harmful, untransparent and even illegal conduct that Minister Vizjak specialises in and acts. It is a voice against people, against the environment and nature and against public interest. We will unanimously support Minister Viszak's intervention in Levika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u12	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister Andrej Vizjak, distinguished colleague and colleague! The words of Minister Viszak, who were illegally recorded in a private conversation, are inappropriate and at least not worthy of the position of Minister Visjak. We decide in Novi Slovenija on the basis of facts. We always give the opportunity to explain their side of the story. So we also gave Minister Visiak the opportunity to present his side of the story to us. Minister Vizjak presented to us in an corrective manner a comprehensive report on the actions that are being reported to him. In our view, however, the weight of the words was too serious for a minister. At the same time, Minister Vizjak will continue to work very hard in the government with credibility. Today's interpretations could be avoided if Minister Vizjak himself made a very difficult decision and withdrew. I would like to explain further our view of the many questions and dilemmas raised by today's interpretation. Terme Câtez. To Minister Viszak, we can justifiably read the prosthetic terms he used in his conversation with Bojan Petan. But Bojan Petan does not need to be explained that taxes are stupid, for he himself knows too well what he has proved in managing Terme Catež. As we can see from the financial statements, Terme Catež led by Bojan Petana was exhausted, income from year to year is lower, financial debt is rising, there is virtually no investment. The share price in 2007 was EUR 340 and in 2019 it was only EUR 39. However, the financial debt is such that Terme Catež became a zombie company. The damage to the country is estimated at more than 100 million euros. All of this is the legacy of Bojan Petan. It also raises a legitimate question as to what happens to the judicial proceedings involving Bojan Petan. Furthermore, the question arises whether Bojan Petan paid all the legally prescribed stupid taxes or how much the state was injured during all the machinations. And how can it be that after 14 years in the media there are recordings of a conversation by a former minister with a then influential businessman, a tycoon who damaged Terme Catež, with a label of listening. We wonder for what purpose these images were launched and at what crucial moment. Who has the motive to publish just now, 14 years after the video was made. Who recorded, how and where did the recording occur, and who handled and traded the recordings? The footage was obtained by a crime, and no one wonders who committed the crime. Do all of us have to be afraid that in a decade we will be witnessing to glues for the purpose of discrediting? I believe that in a country like this, none of us want to live. But Minister Vizjak should be aware that the minister's function is public and the minister must always act in the public interest, without question as to his integrity and the shadow of doubts affecting the functioning of the entire ministry. In the case of Terme Catež, the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia, which wrote, I quote: “As a public official, his conduct and current responses to disclosure have lost all credibility and confidence. The normalisation of his behaviour with the comment that he was doing everything for the good of the country is not sustainable, since as a public official he is committed not only to respect for the laws but also to the highest standards in his work. His distance from his statement about judges is contradictory in its essence, for this can only be greatly regretted and apologized. An attempt to normalise its behaviour and respond to it is unacceptable and constitutes a new relationship of standards [[is not]] the integrity of public officials.” End of quote. Such a standard of action does not, in our view, come into play. Let's see, it's about Petrol. The Minister of Vision is told that there were no irregularities in the purchases of Petrol shares, for which both the KPK and the Securities Market Agency found that there were no irregularities and all procedures were therefore suspended. It is likely that this is just a fight of the Oslo shadow, but Minister Andrej Vizjak should know, as the Finances have written, that “judges as minister among the most important state officials, which can have a decisive impact on the situation in the country, the economy and also in individual companies where politics has indirect or direct power. Petrol is a highly politically managed company. The state appoints most of the company's supervisors. Current policy has an important impact on its business and management. Andrej Vizjak, as Minister, may have a distinct information advantage over most potential capital market participants. Thus, he must be very careful when using such information, i.e. when purchasing shares.” End of quote. Therefore, although the competent institutions have not found irregularities, someone acting as minister must be aware that, in such public functions, it is important to maintain citizens' trust not only that irregularities are not detected but also that the appearance of impartiality is seen by the public. The Waters Act. With regard to the amendment of the Water Act, we agree that there have been many deceptions and manipulations in the referendum campaign. In Novi Slovenija we regret that no law has been passed, as it contained some solutions that would bring positive movements to local communities and the wider environment in water management. We expected a more proactive approach to defending and presenting the solutions to the Law on Waters from the minister as the bill's proponent. We believe that the Minister should face civil society and non-governmental organisations and the solutions from the novel early enough to present clearly and visually enough that there would be no doubt about their intentions. Clear communication, answering the question of civil society, non-governmental organisations and professions and, if necessary, seeking compromise solutions are, in our view, one of the key tasks of the minister. In order to do so, Minister Vizjak demonstrated by the Environmental Protection Act, which is largely in line with non-governmental organisations and has subsequently taken into account the proposal for the depository collection of waste bottles. On the other hand, the referendum on the Water Act states that this communication has failed on the entire line. Of course, it is not possible that on the other hand there have been very many deceptions, misperceptions, which is what the Law on Water is all about. I think it is a very well-known scene from one of the stands where voters convinced the voters of the referendum that the government wants to privatise water resources. Anyone who has read the short novel of the Water Act is aware that it is simply attracted to the hair. As if you were convinced that this law would regulate that water would begin to freeze at 20 degrees Fahrenheit [20 ° C]. We agree with Minister Visiak when he says that the referendum has been misused for political purposes, but the referendum has given a very clear and leading result, with a total of 674,000 voters voting against the law. All too often, we have faced people's opinions that they lack clearer and more decisive positions of the ministry as the proposer of the amendment of the law to clarify or clarify their dilemmas and answer their questions. The work of the Minister of Vision here cannot be denied. December is a time of peace, hope and vision for the future. Advent time is the time when we look at ourselves and think about the actions that go away in the year about the way we go and direct our thoughts to future actions. Mistake and sin is human. Only the greatest with their head held high admit their mistakes and apologize for them. The coming year will bring many challenges and great responsibility to our fellow citizens to feed us successfully past the populist siren singing, which some say is cool and to bring a successful story past all fours in which this cool singing lures us, we need to focus on what is good for our country and its citizens. During his term of office at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Minister Vizjak has done much in the field of water supply, waste water management and flood safety. Recoverys of reptiles resulting from storms and floods have been carried out. The novel of the Housing Law finally improved the most striking conditions in the area of multi-housing buildings. The Space Regulation Act and the Construction Act allowing faster acquisition of building permits and digitisation of all records and procedures. However, the Environmental Protection Act, which is currently under parliamentary procedure, is being fully governed by waste management. In the view of New Slovenia, taking on both objective and subjective responsibilities must also become a fundamental standard in Slovenian policy in all the highest functions and roles in the state and local communities; something self-evident for a democratic country in which people are responsible. This applies both to ministers, Members, mayors and millionaires in state-owned enterprises, to judges, to the Presidents of the courts and to the Court of Auditors. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we appreciate all the good that Minister Vizjak has done in this short term. On the other hand, we have recently been familiar with too many things that are affecting his reputation and his role as minister. Therefore, we find that the Minister for Environment and Space Mags. Andrej Vizjak no longer enjoys our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. It will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Respectable all gathered, respected ministers, representatives of the government! Today we have witnessed the eighth interpretation of the work and responsibility of a minister at the time of the operation of this government. Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrej Vizjak, who will be at the heart of the debate today, is certainly one of the most exposed officials in our country. Much of this exposure can be attributed to so-called media affairs, but to a large extent Minister Visjak is clearly challenging his typical operational and effective role as environmental minister. At the expense of the Minister, the proposal for interpolation presents many indications and criticisms, which we certainly have different views on in this Chamber. Even though we welcome the various views expressed on the work of the Minister in our Group, we have taken a decision on the question of interpretation on the basis of what was done in this mandate and not what was said 14 years ago. The fulfilment of the commitments under the Coalition Treaty has thus been the main guide in our assessment of the Minister's work. We have examined in detail the support material of the interpolation, reviewed the achievements of the ministry so far and, following an exchange of views within the parliamentary group, found that the Ministry of Environment and Space has carried out many important projects. However, taking into account the difficult epidemiological situation and the overwhelming dissatisfaction both on the media and on the part of many NGOs, we can only congratulate the Minister for his work. What we see is about 50 approved projects under the Agreement for the Development of the Regions. Among other things, the government has adopted a new Environmental Protection Act, which will finally be able to fully regulate the matter of waste management in our country. The deposit system for packaging waste shall be reintroduced. The Ministry has also taken a huge step in developing an effective system for environmental recovery. Intensive activities in the area of closure and rehabilitation of landfills are taking place in several locations across Slovenia. A list of about 550 potentially polluted locations in Slovenia was drawn up. Under the leadership of the minister, the department prepared a basis for the construction of new devices designed to burn the municipal mud. This is only part of the environmental projects carried out in the short term of this government. We are engaged in the present, we are building our future on it, so we are significantly more interested in its work within the Ministry of Environment and Space than in the work of Mr Visionak in past ministerial roles. And here, as it is said, only a positive assessment comes to the Minister for the work done in this mandate. According to Slovenia, housing is being built, with the adoption of the Housing Law, the public housing fund has been strengthened, rules have been laid down for the creation of non-profit rent and rental subsidies. Finally, under the Minister's leadership, we succeeded in the long-awaited renovation of construction and spatial legislation. Despite the excellent results of the Minister's work, we do not want to get into those parts of the perceptions in the interpretation that relate to the affair of alleged failure to pay the tax. At this point, we want to make it clear that we are working hard in our parliamentary group for the efficient functioning of the economy, and we feel that any political intervention is unnecessary and inappropriate. It is also a strong position when we talk about the necessity of paying taxes, which are a prerequisite for the functioning of each country. Although we first made a strong point with our ears when we had the media name of the affair, after examining the entire material, we found that the name of the affair was in fact completely unrelated to the content of the talks. In fact, Minister Vizjak has never in fact led to tax non-payment on Mr Petan's published recordings. By means of a stupid label, he clearly named the Manoeuvre for the purchase of Terme Catež's own shares. Instead of buying the Termes, they could invest this money and thus probably avoid the scenario that has hit them and which is stifling their tourist potential today. At that time, Minister Vizjak also publicly opposed the manoeuvre of purchasing his own shares. On one occasion, he said that Petan’s proposal was inconvenient, and he announced the fate of the later financially weakened Termes. At the time of this government, we learned to be skeptical at the hints and famous attacks on officials. We have learned that before any decision is taken, we must take note of all relevant facts. We have also learned that we trust his content more than the populist use of strong words in the title of a law. Although such activity is more tiring and less appealing, it eventually leads us to stand behind our decisions without bad news. Interpellations on the work and responsibilities of the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. We will not support Andrej Visiak in our parliamentary group because of all the above arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u16	Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Minister! Today, we have an interpretation on the table against the Minister of the Environment and the Magi area. Mr Andrej Visiak or, in other words, the debate on the political responsibility of the Minister for Environment and Space. Interpellation of current government members, the government of Janez Janša, is already the eighth in a series, indicating the poor work of ministers and government as a whole. With the signatures of 43 Members and Members of the opposition Group, we have submitted interpretations and observations relating to irresponsible, non-transparent and illegal behaviour to the detriment of the environment in four points. It is clear from the media that interpellation enjoys not only the support of the opposition, but also the support of the coalition party, which, due to its own situation, is likely to do nothing to bring the current government down. It's expected. We are expected to be prisoners of the current ministers, as the President of the Government does not have a majority in the National Assembly, and so neither does the possibility of electing a new minister. And this time, the minister after work isn't even the worst, far from it. In interpolation, the signatories to the Minister see illegal and untransparent action at the expense of the State, direct responsibility for the adoption of the Environmental and Widerly Harmful Law on Water Amendments and Supplements, planned restriction of public debate and exclusion of the professional public from the process of adopting this proposal, and planned government favouring partial and profitable interests. In his response, the minister rejects all evidence. He says they're unfounded, based on untrue and unprovable facts. However, Minister Vizjak, as minister in all three governments of Janez Janša, is entangled in various strange and tonicable affairs. The “stupid tax” or “Terme Catež and Petan” affair is just one of these practices, which clearly shows that politics still plays a major role in the Slovenian economy, and by which the Minister of the Environment has a clear conscience and by which such acts have become unfortunately something acceptable. While the affair dates back to 2007 when Minister Vizjak, then Minister of Economy, urged Bojan Petan, who controlled Terme Catež through the DZS, not to carry out one of the shares transactions, because he would have to pay the tax for it. In this way, according to the minister, I would throw money away, quote, “what would be, as we all know, stupid”. So are the taxes we pay for the purpose of enriching the state treasury for public education, hospital, road connections, the work of the judiciary, the police, firefighters and everything else public stupid? The Minister, of course, insisted that the video was a non-authentic and glued image, and that all of this would point only to a political struggle. Even when it comes to manipulating and sticking, the minister had to make that statement. All of this points to the government's modus operandi of Janez Janša when it comes to corporate governance and is an extremely unacceptable way. In the SAB, we have no doubt about the authenticity and authenticity of the words spoken, and we believe that doing so is the reason that in the past millions have been expelled in the country, causing a huge bank hole, and the price of such stories was later paid by all taxpayers. The creation of a minister is unacceptable and puts a bad light on politics, on the integrity of it as a policy and also on the integrity of the government it belongs to. It is indeed a recording of a conversation that took place 14 years ago, but for an official who is expected to act legally and responsibly, such conduct is also controversial today, yesterday, years ago and forever. It's totally unacceptable. The video itself is interpreted even as a suspicion of a criminal act of corruption, which the KPC can no longer deal with because of time distance. In the SAB, we insist on a consistent and effective prosecution of economic and organised crime and all forms of corruption, which will only restore people's confidence in our judicial system and the rule of law. But there's obviously nothing that can be done here. The following observation is at the expense of the ominous novel of the Water Act, in which the Minister simply ignored all the written principles adopted in the inter-departmental legal acts, as well as in domestic legislation. Despite the fact that this was an essential intervention in the content of the law, a reduced procedure has been proposed to deal with the legislative proposal on the ground that it was only a matter of less difficult amendments. In fact, it is one of the laws that changes very rarely, and the content of the law interferes with the unforeseeable number of stakeholders. Let us recall that the controversial changes and the articles in the law were added after public consideration, thereby excluding the professional public and civil society. In the SAB, we strongly opposed the proposed law as initiators of the record of the right to drinking water in the Constitution, and the proposal was opposed by virtually all the professional public as well as the Ombudsman. As the Ombudsman explains, the Ministry's conduct in this case did not comply with the right of the public to participate in the adoption of regulations. A violation of Article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was found and the conduct was also not in accordance with Article 8 of the Aarhus Convention and Article 34a of the Environmental Protection Act. The Ombudsman was ignored and rights and fundamental freedoms were also ignored. In response to the Human Rights Ombudsman, the Ministry explained that the Water Act had been amended for less complex or non-systemic changes, and the reason for setting only a 14-day deadline for public participation in the adoption of environmental regulations was to provide additional financial resources. In view of all that has been going on, of course, these financial resources are still missing. To the extent that the purpose was good, why did the novels oppose the entire professional public? And why did she take herself so quickly and quietly under the minister's tactics? The adopted novel first points to the non-substantial attitude of the state or government towards important natural goods, that is, water, and neglects the constitutional right to drinking water, since it weakens the protection of our waters rather than exacerbate it. Not only the problematic content, but also the way in which the Water Act was adopted, has therefore resulted in a victory at a referendum known to the public as a referendum on water. In the SAB, we have taken an intensive approach to the activities related to the referendum campaign, cooperated with all other actors and informed people about the traps of the law and called on as many citizens as possible to vote against. The citizens have apparently listened to our call, including our call. On July 11th, it was not only nature that won, but people who, with high participation in the referendum on water and government, showed that the government does not have the support of the people. The arrangement whereby Parliament can dismiss a minister is unusual for the parliamentary system and is known only by rare European parliamentary states. In a rare country, however, ministers do not renounce their position or give up their jobs or their replacements are not required by the Prime Minister. In the SAB, on the basis of all the above-mentioned observations, which I have now summarized, we believe that the interpretation is against the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrea Vissiak is well-founded and, of course, we will support her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak is next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today and Monday, we will hold a thorough debate on the political responsibility of two ministers, Minister Andrej Visiak and Minister Aleš Hojs. Both interpretations will open up a wide range of subject matter. The Minister of Environment and Space will in particular have to clarify the circumstances regarding the water referendum and what are the reasons why, despite the successful referendum, the Minister still remains. At the same time, we will talk about 14 years old recordings that put the Minister of Vision in an inappropriate position, although we do not know exactly how and where the video was made, and we know that the video is authentic, which is confirmed by the Minister himself. The terms used in the video are primarily inappropriate for someone who performs such a high function. In the beginning, I expect again from Minister Visiak an apology for the inappropriate words. Furthermore, I expect from the Minister specific explanations of the videos published, the content and the reasons for their publication only now. Because the footage is about 14 years old, and so far nothing has been heard of their existence. Finally, the content of these recordings is very eloquent. If it is indeed an attempt or a further even actual damage to the state budget, this is, in the view of the Desus Group, unacceptable. The Minister and Members, and all others active in politics, should be the first to respect applicable legislation and fulfil all obligations towards the country. Such manoeuvres by avoiding the payment of taxes are inappropriate and should be taken under the supervision of the competent authorities. Here we have to be aware of the fact that two of them were performing in the video. Black Mr Petan is not politically responsible, and we believe that the competent authorities will also thoroughly check his role in this story. There was a lot about the Water Act in the interpolation. First, it should be pointed out that the referendum was not successful because of KUL Members, but because of the involvement of NGOs. These, together with various actions throughout Slovenia, enabled such participation in the referendum. Many Members in this Chamber have used the referendum for their own promotion and have shivered their shoulders to see what they have achieved. Among them is a member of the SAB, who on Twitter opposed the Waters Act in front of the factory in Anhove and spoke about the importance of drinking water quality and safety and voted against the budget which provides investment funds for the construction of the water supply. Who would understand? Members of Desus' budget, however, we supported the budget because we supported the drinking and clean water and because by confirming the budget we assured the people of Anhove that they would finally be able to drink clean water from the new water supply. Each Member of the sea knows what difficulties the inhabitants of coastal towns in Slovenia face in providing drinking water. The Desus Group has also raised this problem on several occasions in its questions. Perhaps it would still be important to raise again the question of how close we are to resolving the drinking water shortage in coastal cities. If the matter is not specifically resolved in this mandate, the next ministers will have the task of completing the projects. Fortunately, there will probably be no more research needed and the matter will finally be over. Environmental protection is one of the main themes under the auspices of Minister Visiak. Although interpretation does not talk about it, we should discuss thoroughly the illegal disposal of municipal mud. In the Desus Group, we believe that the competent minister should respond more sharply to media disclosures of the illegal disposal of municipal mud. Members of the Desus Group have read the response to the interpellation of the Minister of Vision, and today we have also heard his oral defense. There will be no doubt in today's debate that there will be many further questions raised regarding the political responsibility of the Minister. In the Desus Group, we will finally take a decision after the debate. For it is right and fair to hear both sides of the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! All these interpretations that we are discussing in this high choir have become a show in recent months. To this extent, I even agree with the statements made by some representatives of the coalition, but the main reason why this is so is important. In a good year, it has proved that the facts and arguments for the decision-making of the coalition Members have no weight at all. There is too much ratings in the game to allow this coalition of supporters to break up before the upcoming elections. Unfortunately, this show, as some call it, loses attention in many people as well. As an opposition, we have few tools to draw attention to all the irregularities, illegality and other irregularities that this government, its ministers and their party February have. I am almost certain that today's vote will be similar to all of the previous ones, although at least a coalition party said a few weeks ago that the minister we are discussing today has lost their confidence. This is the state of Slovenian “democracy” today, and I am putting this word into the slogan that led to the conduct of this government coalition, so I will not moralise what it says about the independence of Members of Parliament and Members of the Constitution. Mr Minister, if we were to comply with all the minimum ethical standards, we would not be discussing your work today. We would have stepped down as soon as you found out about the result of the water referendum. People have rejected your marriage with a plebiscite majority and have shown you very clearly how they feel about your work. But perhaps even a debate on ethics, let alone morality in this home after a good year of this government no longer makes sense. As my opposition colleagues will work long and wide on all the points of today's interpolation, I will limit myself to just one fact which I have highlighted when I present this interpolation to the media. Although it is quite old, some of the coalition's moves in recent months have shown that it has been and is still a way of working, which is a constant practice of this government coalition. Of course, we all know the content of the recordings in your conversations with Tycoon Petan, a few juicy phrases, if I may call them, were media-response, and from the stupid payment of taxes to the friction of eggs to the judges. And I would like to draw attention to the part of your conversations that led you to the crimes. You promised the tycoon a cooperative supervisory council and an advantage in buying a company that was then owned by the state. Mr Minister, as an experienced politician, we could know that supervisory councils in economic societies are criminally and materially responsible for their decisions. And you promised the tycoon overseers who would ignore their marriage obligations. You were willing to find people who would be willing to act outside the law and to help someone who was also publicly declared a tycoon by your client and talked about fighting such phenomena and people. If, after the release of the recordings, we apologize for our mistake and assure us that this episode has taught you something, we would maintain at least part of our personal integrity and give us the opportunity to conditionally believe that you are doing something different today. Maybe it means something to you, and it'll make you think. My personal view of your work so far would remain good, positive at such a dissipation of events. But first you advertised glues that were supposed to be faked, but after you didn't have a way out, you tried to blur out those points of your conversation in your explanations. [[Incomprehensible]] The second part of this conversation, which puts your actions on the other side of the law, is your promise that you will be the governing tycoon's favored bid to take over another company if you reach an agreement. As Minister, you have therefore promised a material and intangible benefit to someone as compensation for participating in ownership relations in Terme Catež. We know what law deals with an act when others are promised material and intangible benefits. I would not, of course, wish to refer to the fact that the decision to sell those shares in companies was not a competent government at all, but an asset manager. However, this manager had management and a supervisory board. And that I'm not going back, we know what the Law says about the work of management and the control council. In some statements, you said you were protecting state property. How? By promising benefits and advantages in taking over another state-owned society? By promising that the overseers you will set up will work beyond the law? If in this way you imagine protecting property that is not yours, but from the citizens of Slovenia, then in this country we will soon have it no more. These two facts are not important for our Group of Members just because of your past actions. It has become quite obvious that your coalition and your client are using the same methods today. This was confirmed by the Witnesses before this assembly in recent cases in energy. This is more than obvious your constant method of managing citizens' assets. It is the duty of the opposition in the National Assembly to oversee the functioning of the government and the government coalition. Despite the fact that warning them with interpretations and extraordinary meetings in recent months is enormous, and I believe that people are already following all the disadvantages of this government, we do not currently have a choice of another path. The government coalition has distributed enough candy in recent months, so we cannot expect the Minister to be resolved despite the clear facts that show that the interpretation is fully justified. The Group of Non-Related Members of Parliament will support the interpolation. At the same time, we would like to stress that people will have a last word in their assessment of the work of this government, government coalitions with supporters, and this will soon happen. And that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u22	Good day to you all! Well, this interpolation has shown all the ability of the storytelling of the opposition who can't find any other than one, I would say, new stories from Wienerwald, on the basis of which he tries to present the minister as the most terrible and black person who could be included in Grimm's fairy tales. But there's something good about it. Mr Minister had a chance to say and show what it was about, what the opposition was trying to hide and what it wanted to do more under the carpet than it had already put. We have heard of millions of euro that have disappeared – or know where and hope that the law enforcement authorities will find out, show and those who participated in these works will also be punished. I don't know what's hanging on to the Minister. One thing, for example, is the construction of the Mokritz hydroelectric power plant. The country has a lot of damage because it's not built. It is not built because of one of the three fishes observed by some non-governance, but these fish, when Sava is higher and lifts it, swims to another place, then even the fishermen can't find them if they've ever found them. Like I talked to the fishermen of these, the fish don't know. Maybe it's also a segment of these stories from Wienerwald. But no one wonders how much damage this country has done. How much damage the NGOs and the coalition have done — opposition, pardon, not all, certain opposition — how much damage they have done because electricity will not be as long from Mokric and, of course, this KULOPOSITION, along with the NGOs, drives these matters. Even with drinking water. There was no question about drinking water, for it was from this KUL opposition that they boasted about how the provision of drinking water was enshrined in the constitution. What, then, did we argue about drinking water if the drinking water is already in the constitution? Funny, interesting. In fact, this interpellation is about defending the Taiwanese works of some gentlemen – in particular gentlemen, even what ladies are among them – because this has to be covered up, it has to be put aside. Then a video of a secretly recorded speech in a tavern where society talked about this and that, and if I continue to take the segment that the laws on these matters were completely different then than today, it was later changed, and that there was nothing at stake in these discussions, one wonders what the purpose of all of this was. It is certainly intended to result in discreditation, but this discredit failed because the laws at the time were such that this speech is not included in the extramarital phase. Besides, this conversation was much longer and I don't know what else they were talking about. There was a lot of talk, because you know what the inn debates are like, and let's say that there was also a conversation between Mr Petan and Mr Visian about what a pit is like for Minister Kopač, who gave his mistress the only gift in the year he gave her, was a bottle of wine for the new year. Or next, when we say that they were talking about how to say to Mr. Vizjak Petan: "Do you know that those two ladies, the wives of those two high-ranking political officials, would be wiped out because they were gay?" [[…]] Let’s say that then Petan said: “Yes, yes, that would be right, it would be right. But you know what it is, I don't know how?" And then Minister Vizjak said, "You know what, you don't get your hopes up because your wife is going to kill you." What if this is a speech followed by a respected KUL opposition? Are you going to pull that out and tell us who those two gentlemen are, say, whether those two ladies screwed up or not? So far you've brought all this talk to this level; to a level that is not worthy of the National Assembly. Of course, he is sorry for the need to save his own skin. And your skin needs to be saved in such a way that you save the tycoons who have seized and hidden a lot of money, especially by destroying and destroying Slovenian companies, for which people have to pay a lot of money, because the budget of the state is the one that helps the rescuer, and certainly not those gentlemen who first bought a great car for money, but the yacht I don't know what it is. This is the thing that's going this way. But this interpretation of yours shows a complete ignorance of the economy and the economy, and you know nothing about it. You're full of empty words, you're full of crap, you're full of searching for what I don't know; what you don't even know. But of course, I understand, command is command, you've got a command that you have to do it, and some interpolation, probably two more, or something like that, with the same purpose and the same way. I don't think you're going to succeed, which is logical, no, because breaking down a good minister is stupid. I think the Slovenian National Party will obstruct the vote as well. After all, dial your 46 votes if you can, but you won't be able to. After all, it is necessary to know that in about four months' time there are elections and these facts that the Minister has laid down today will be remembered by people; if not, we will also remind them of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, I did not want to interrupt your reds, nor in this position that you have given, but such fillings are not worthy of this house, in which you serve the people, nor at all the expression that you have afforded it. So in the future, I ask you to refrain from such inappropriate expressions. Do you have a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u24	Yes, ma'am. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u25	Put the mask on first, Mr Jelinčič, because the rules apply to you too. [[…]] Mask up!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u26	Yes, Madam President, I said what else could be on that tape. Perhaps it would be interesting to listen to it to the end, but there may be more.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u27	That's exactly what my intervention was about. This crowding, as you have afforded it, is not in the reputation of a house that you represent as an elected Member. We're moving on. As the last position of the SDS Group, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of this National Assembly, for your word. The esteemed magus. Andrej Vizjak with your co-worker, colleagues and all those who accompany this meeting today and the eighth interpolation in this short term of government Janez Janša! Let me remind you that soon, in five months' time, we will conclude this four-year term, which we started somewhere in the summer months of 2018. Of course, without the Minister of Mags. Andrea Vissiak, who was in another job altogether. Let me introductoryly tell you, when I represent the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, why it is a mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak Minister for the Environment and Space in this mandate. Because of all those KUL parties on 27 January 2020, the Minister left the government. The President of the Government, I have said this several times about this pay phone, said this morning, on Monday, when it snowed, that he was walking all over Slovenia, facing various problems, but that the coalition he has cannot solve and abandon them. Representative or President of the largest party of mag. Dejan Židan says: “The easiest thing to do is to go and leave all the problems behind.” Representative Alenka Bratusek says the following, mag. Alenka Bratušek: “In the biggest health crisis, we have done little or nothing.” And before that, there was the infamous Left of this coalition. That is why today and throughout all this period that you are describing today, you are primarily presenting it in this eighth interpretation in the government of Janez Janša, Minister Vizjak of Environment and Space. When any Prime Minister issues a list of ministerial candidates, whether they are known or not, there is no such system in the world as we do, especially the media: in that day we know everything about that candidate, what kind of man the father was, what kind of neighbor he was, what a co-worker he was. And when the president of the current government, among other things, named the Magi. Visionaka, we have heard in the media that he was Minister of Economy from 2004 to 2008, that he was Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for Work in 2012, that he is an expert at working. But you know, we didn't hear anything from him once talking to someone -- 2,000 years ago -- I don't know, 14 years ago. I didn't even hear a word you said. Whether it was still in stock or not. And we're going to introduce the minister to the hearing, which was 12. 3. 2020. Of course, I was there as a member of this committee, we found that in the Republic of Slovenia we have a lot of unresolved things, especially I remember then with waste. In short, when we talk about interpolation, we also went to our parliamentary group to examine thoroughly what was written in the coalition contract, what the minister represented in his hearing, which was, as I mentioned earlier, 12. 3. 2020, and what problems have we been alerting members of the coalition as well as members of the opposition. In short, I remember one quality performance by the Minister, very correct concerns about the environmental situation in the Republic of Slovenia from all Members and Members, both from the coalition and the opposition. In short, the Minister responded professionally and I finally remember before the vote that he also had silent support in the opposition as an expert in the Republic of Slovenia in this area. Let me move on to what we have found in our parliamentary group, what the Minister has presented, what the coalition contract says and what we have been asking the minister during this entire term, last year and also this year, and what we have been alerting him to in the National Assembly, as well as all the mayors and mayors of Slovenian municipalities. In short, as of March 2020, the ILO has approved more than 50 of the smaller and larger investment projects totalling EUR 400 million for water supply, sewage systems and flood safety from regional development arrangements. Through the Plan for Resistance and Recovery, EUR 107 million for water supply projects and the removal and treatment of waste water, for agglomerations, systems of less than two thousand units, and for the provision of drinking water for residents where there are less than 10,000. Protecting water resources is a prerequisite for providing clean drinking water. In this mandate, Minister Vizjak at the ILO has accelerated the preparation and adoption of regulations from March 2020 to November this year, which were adopted by 5 regulations and 20 are in preparation. The situation on the watercourses has deteriorated in the past due to unrealised recovery programmes and is now available under the leadership of this minister 10 million euros a year. This has started to remove damage to facilities caused by water catch in the last 10 years. Poor water supply situation due to poor maintenance in the last 10 years! This mandate has increased funds for maintenance of watercourses amounting to EUR 25 million. For the first time in 2021, the regular maintenance programme is €28 million. The Minister of Vision has signed a concession contract with electricity production in Central Savi, thereby reducing the use of environmentally friendly OEs, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring flood safety. This was not possible for 16 years before. The ILO is speeding up the implementation of the mechanism of full territorial investment. From 2020 to today, 20 projects of signed contracts, decisions of support were issued, or applications for co-financing were confirmed. The total value is less than 70 million. The ILO carried out the rehabilitation of 154 reptiles or 78 municipalities worth €25.5 million. This has improved the security of our citizens and citizens. Debarcation measures have led to deregulation in the field of environmental impact assessment, reducing the backlog of cases by 30 % without damaging the environment. The closure of landfills and rehabilitations are actively carried out. In accordance with the coalition commitment, an inventory of potentially polluted areas, approximately 550 in Slovenia, was carried out, and an application was made. In the field of climate change and biological security, two important coalition commitments have been made in the area of climate change management. The Climate Change Fund spending programme for the period 2021-2023 and the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia were adopted. The ILO has renewed housing legislation and thus provides up to 5 000 additional rental apartments by 2026, up to today 3 000 500. The ILO has drafted the Law on the Regulation of Space – ZUREP-3 and the Construction Law-1. The law brings easier, faster, cheaper and more digitised solutions to citizens. By means of a law to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments for the start-up of the economy, it has so far issued over 30 building permits and over 120 spatial documents with the aim of more efficient procedures for obtaining building permits. The Pomeranian Spatial Plan of Slovenia has been adopted for the first time in our country since its independence, with the introduction of strategic planning for the sustainable development of activities and the use of the sea. Dear colleagues and colleagues and all those who follow today's interpretation, today's session, and those who also preside over the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, let me also say why today's interpolation and why it listens. Only one and only marriage or problem. These are wastes in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this law covers a law called environmental protection. When the minister sat on this ministry's chair, he had to provide 13 million, or the government, to clear up the previous opposition we discussed throughout the 2014-2018 mandate. Every month, it's burned down in what warehouse, and it's gone today, and this minister will, of course, deal with this law, of course, with all his fellow workers. The Honourable Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister at the Ministry of Environment and Space, in our Group we will reject the proposal for interpretation. Given that you have working hands, that you have experience, that you have the knowledge that you have the will to have good co-workers, we wish you in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group that your days and months in this ministry will be successful, which will go to the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia and all those who live in our beautiful homeland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the interpretation. Mr Boris Doblekar is the first to be reported on the list, Mr Edvard Paulic is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting, of course, to today's central guest in the National Assembly, Mr Minister, Mag. Visionary, and a nice greeting to all viewers and viewers, citizens and citizens who accompany another saga here in Parliament to waste time during the period of the greatest health crisis just for the purpose of political struggle and of course sadness at the loss of power by the target of the rifle in corn! Of course, we have received material from the Minister, in which he explained in detail and explained everything that was necessary, given that you have tabled the interpretation. The indications from this interpolation do not have a basis for actual facts and concrete data, this needs to be said and explained to the public. In its own explanation, the interpolation proponents are not in any way concrete and proven to violate in their work as Minister of Environment and Space any legal and legal basis governing the environment and space. These are facts, that's what people need to know. Of course, there is no evidence that he acted irresponsibly, untransparently, and to the detriment of the environment or the state. That's it. If I keep going. I must say that I am extremely pleased that today's session is also that it is not removed from the agenda so that all Slovenia or all the Slovenian public can also see a new attempt to demolish this government that is building Slovenia. Of course, I am also pleased that the Minister could explain his views to the public on this interpretation of yours. Now the disappointment of the KUL opposition after the target of the rifle into the corn is immeasurable, we can feel it every day. The loss of power is so painful that the pain KUL actually feels every day, every hour, everywhere: on the road, in Parliament, in the public, in the media, and even though we are in the biggest health crisis, you are not worried. It should also be said that Slovenia is the only country in the European Union where the opposition does not cooperate with the coalition in solving the health crisis, but rather deals with interpolation, attacks and so on. How did this new affair come about and come about, or on the basis of this affair, also one of the new, imaginary affairs? Next, of course, the idea is somehow born in KUL and in a deep country, then it travels to the media, but only certain media, from the media first to the public and then back to the National Assembly, to various committees and commissions, and then perhaps to the anti-corruption commission, and a little to the police, and a little to the prosecution, and back to the media and the case is closed, the circle is concluded. So these two years have been going on these imaginary affairs of yours, from which, of course, there is nothing in the end. And this epiphany of a glue, which is of course an illegal, illegal recording. First of all, she's glued, and then the continuation of all that you've afforded -- or they have, I don't know, whoever it is, but that's your basis for interpolation. So, a 14-year-old video with an obituary listening method, which, of course, is not illegal for you. But let's leave 14 years ago, we're going back to this time that I'm more concerned and more interested and also us, given that I'm listening to the KUL opposition-KUL coalition about not going back to the old days, let's look forward, let's forget about it. I am more concerned, but I am more interested in what is happening today - and this is also of interest to the Slovenian public, which is what Members of the National Assembly are talking about. For example, what and how are Luke the Moon discussed with Tycoon Binet Kordega? I'm more interested in that. That's what we're interested in, the public, the people, not 14 years ago. What's Luke Moon talking about with Binet Kordez? Probably not the lawn mowers they sold in Mercury. What is Ambassador Janja Sluga talking about with Tomaž Vesel at secret meetings? Probably not the recipe for the cake. What's Marjan Sarec talking about at union cheers with police unions? Probably not about the nags, but about the bangs. And what were the judges of the Slovenian courts talking to at the perverse picnics of extremely left-wing political parties who were lured into totalitarian symbols? Probably not about coloring eggs for the big night. These are kind of parallels to these imaginary affairs of yours, old videos. Now, the obvious is also the Water Act. Of course, you are about a referendum campaign or are, but the KUL opposition, of course, with an army of non-governmental organisations, in a referendum campaign through lies, manipulation, fraud with the help of a well-paid army with Metelkova 6 and certain media serving their left masters, including the creamy yellow press and radio trumpets, because of course the fear of losing state millions at the expense of taxpayers, especially with waste, is immeasurable. This fear is immeasurable. So the law that was prepared, which, of course, protects water and coastal belts, regulates watercourses and all the other things. But of course, you told people through the campaign, by manipulation, by really amazing manipulation, which is probably some sort of escape from the world, that dirty water would flow out of the taps, that coastal belts would be built and, of course, similar lies sold for honey. When, of course, deceived voters realized that it was a lie and manipulation in the spirit of fighting for power and not for water, it was all too late. We have also seen very similar manipulation these days with the Slovenian Army, where a large part of the opposition has also imagined and, of course, has distanced itself from the perverted intention of destroying the creative institution of Slovenia's independence. This is also a parallel to this matter. Well, let us take a look at some of the key achievements of the minister, which, of course, was already highlighted in my position by colleague Bojan Podkoršek. I will also briefly present some of these achievements by the Minister and the Ministry or this government, which, of course, is also right if you may not know or deny this in the KUL Coalition. Since March 2020, the Ministry of Environment and Space has approved more than 50 smaller and larger investment projects totalling €400 million for water supply, sewage systems and flood safety under the Agreement for the Development of the Regions. So these are tectonic movements felt by people, the congregations, the economy and ultimately everyone is grateful, including the nature that you, of course, misused in the referendum on water. Protecting water resources is a prerequisite for providing clean drinking water. In this mandate, Minister Vizjak of the Ministry of Environment and Space has accelerated the preparation and adoption of regulations; five, more than 20, have been adopted since March 2020 to November this year. These are things that have been going on for years and years and nothing's moved. Many young people call me, warn me, want to build, entrepreneurs want to expand production – not without things not being arranged at the ministry or at agencies and so on. Nothing's moved. Finally, the minister began to work in this area. Status on the watercourses. We know what it was like, how much damage there was. From now on, €10 million per year is available. An integrated territorial investment mechanism shall be implemented expeditiously. On 2020, 20 projects of signed contracts, support decisions or co-financing applications have been approved. And the total value of the operations amounts to €69.6 million. The Ministry of Environment and Space carried out the rehabilitation of 154 beaches or facilities in 78 municipalities worth €25.5 million. But that's why he got the interpolation? As part of the de-de-barcation measures, deregulation has been carried out in the field of environmental impact assessment, reducing the case by 30 per cent, without damaging the environment. Is that why he's being intertwined? I'm not talking about renovating housing legislation. By 2026, he had provided at least 5,000 additional public rental apartments. I'm not talking about the new laws that have been passed: the Law on the Regulation of Space and the Construction Law. The law brings easier, faster, cheaper and more digitised solutions to citizens. That's why he got the interpolation? Also, the fact that building permits will be issued faster and less bureaucratic complications, of course, of all other matters that the Minister has done more than excellent. So these are the achievements of this minister. And all I can say to him is respect! Nothing else. Let me finish. I have already thanked him on my own behalf, on behalf of citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens who feel the movements of the Ministry and feel the work. And if we look at a little by nature, we see how better, more efficient things happen in nature, for the benefit of nature, environment and space, I can also thank him in the name of nature. So, this unnecessary interpretation is more than obviously just one of the attempts to demolish this government and the minister who works for the benefit and well for the people, the environment and nature, not for the benefit of the tycoons, the banks, the mob and so on, all that you have done in your government, but also in many of the previous lions. However, I conclude with a quote from the former Head of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the current on-call liquidator of the Prime Minister and all those who are sent to the KUL Coalition. On the question of POP TV about seized cut-offs, which are lined up just after the current tape – of course POP TV, which by the abuse and manipulation of Minister Visiak – Mr Štefanec, who seems to be available at any moment for assistance in media killings, said Mr Štefanec: “What will be the profit, then, of course, is probably first of all depending on the media, which you will know properly to present to the Slovenian public, then of course and otherwise to the public. Finally, I think that the payment for this account will come on 24 April, if not earlier.” End of quote. Did you hear this shameful statement by the former president of the anti-corruption commission? I'm not gonna tell you where that statement is. And just for the end, after this plausible statement, the Slovenian public and I expect the KUL coalition bill to be issued on 24 April and will also be very expensive. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your work, and good luck with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u31	We have two motions for a word. Ms Natasa Sukić, Mr Rudi Medved, applied for her first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I have to respond to these really insinuations. First of all, today is not the time to list the Minister's achievements. I hope that there was some achievement, but it was, or it would be a little strange if it weren't. I mean, that would be pretty scary. Today, we are talking about the Minister's persistent undermining of the country's environmental policy standards, the participatory, corrupt, harmful, non-transparent and even illegal practices which, in many cases, have already been appointed by the Minister, and I will continue to repeat them in the course of the day, which is so special and effective by Minister Vizjak. A new thing has just come into the media, a document has come out to the public, a well-respected minister - a document, not just like that - which proves that the Minister of War for Terme Catež did not always protect the interests of the state, as he claims in 2007. The documentation shows that, during the first government of Janez Janša, when he was Minister of Economy, the country was injured by at least EUR 36 million. We'll focus a little later on this in the next intervention. Now a colleague says that we are talking about an illegal recording with a “obstetric method of eavesdropping”. I mean, let's smile, come on! For the first time, forensics found it was an authentic recording. It's got the minister's authentic voice on it. Isn't it the minister's authentic voice? His words and statements are authentic. I listened to the longer version that was published. I've heard all this, my dear. It's only logical that when you have these reports, you have a diary to pull out of the video just those most burdensome statements and equip them in conjunction with the press comments. But I also listened to the video, so don't joke, we could all hear it! As for Luke Mesca, who is now such a leitmotiv of our beloved SDS, and his coffee with Kordez. You know what I'm gonna tell you? Here I publicly declare that when Minister Vizjak spends one couple of years in prison for all his work, as Kordez had to, I will personally be happy to go to coffee with Minister Viszak after serving his time - what would be after the letter of the law. So to say that 680,000 people at the referendum are wrong that we're all stupid, like stupid taxes, because we didn't realize how good his Water Act is, but that's, excuse me, such arrogance that it's unprecedented. And today, Your Honor, what is this interpretation about? Once again, we're talking about the integrity of someone who's a minister. Every minister should have integrity and dignity. Once this credibility is reversed, this integrity falls, in every normal country ministers usually resign themselves. In neighbouring Austria, the prime minister has resigned for much less than today's minister is in no way going to resign. But these are the standards respected and respected by the SDS. And I am also looking forward to putting an account on 24 April in the National Elections, because I am sorry, but citizens are not completely stupid enough not to recognize the standards that you are building up, so is corruption and similar work. Today we're talking about a video that you say is obtained illegally. Yes, the content of this video is important! Talk about the legality or illegality of the recording anywhere in the court, but the content is important, and I've heard the ministers' voice, the Minister's statement, about how he'll break the judge's balls. Why is he gonna kick the judge's balls? Does the judge have the balls? Isn't that pressure on the judiciary, on the autonomous branch of power, and so on? Isn't that what the minister said in his video, pressure, interference with corporate governance and so on? In short, please! Now you say, my colleague said he wrote a wonderful new Construction Law. Really? This new Construction Law, by the way, legalizes the black construction of our Member Simonovic. Who took care of it? Simonovic's law firm, which was paid by the minister with up to 19 000 euros to help write such a law so Simonovic could legalise it. What do you call it? Political corruption, respected and respected. This is where I'm gonna stop. With your beautiful shiny standards, I feel breathtaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The speaker, Rudy Medved, took the floor and received the floor from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much. At this point, I will respond mainly to the debate by my colleague, Doblekar of the SDS. Especially because when it was implemented, Brother Grimm, a famous fairy tale teller, would be a perfect apprentice. I don't know where this constant surprise comes from, but it's not only with Comrade Doblekar, but with all the Members and Members of the Coalition in general, why the interpretations and the emphasis that this is a political struggle. Yes, of course it is! Interpellation is the political tool of the opposition, the political tool of the opposition to overthrow the minister. Yes, the final outcome can, of course, also be a resignation or a vote of no confidence on the part of the minister or the government. That's the nature of interpolation. You knew when you were in the opposition, in the SDS party, that the task of the opposition is to overthrow the government, that it is the main task of the opposition: to overthrow the government. Now I don't know why we would be constantly surprised by the interpretations that are something completely natural in the situations we are in, because of the way the government is doing, this Janez Janša government, and the way that individual ministers operate. From here on out, so much for interpretation. This is a reflection of the work of the government of Janez Janša. I am also pleased that this meeting today is, as did Comrade Doblekar, that this meeting is because it could happen to be obstructed by the coalition. This is also a unique, obstruction is more or less the same tool of the opposition, but because this coalition has not been able to survive for a long time any stable not only majority but some stable way of operating with adequate support, we come into a situation that even obstructs the meeting of the National Assembly. So we can be glad you didn't go into obstruction. That it is useless and unnecessary interpretation against Minister Vissiak, that it is without content. Yeah, did you listen to your coalition partners and supporters? Yeah, I don't know. Not everyone thinks that way. I am now only in the position of the SDS party hearing the praises of the Minister and all the support, otherwise perfectly legitimate, but already coalition partners from New Slovenia Yes, but it seems to me that the content, if you heard it, I went to watch, if we accidentally wrote our position together as proponents, given what I heard in their position. A whole bunch of hard feelings at the expense of the Minister for the Environment, of course. And that enigmatic conclusion that it does not have our support, of course, does not mean that they will not quietly support it when they may not vote. The Member spoke about the joy of Marjan Sarca at some police parties. I don't know where that came from. Probably still, they're still warming up those two or how many years ago, visiting Marjan Sarca at the Police Union Congress. Now, if the convention was a joy, then he was just at the party. What was he doing there? What was he talking about? Yes, he certainly did not share with the unionists warnings about the termination of the labour relationship; what Minister Hojs is doing through the Director General of Police. He certainly didn't do that. Whether opposition politicians are talking to economists about egg coloring, I don't know, but if we're judging from the events of fourteen, fifteen years ago, they're talking about how they're going to crush someone's balls. Now, if you judge by that content, then similar thoughts come to mind. So, no wonder why this interpolation is, of course, we will further substantiate it and also ask the Minister of the Environment a few questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know, in my reply to the interpolation, I've made some facts very clear, and I see that the opposition is repeating the facts, Mrs Sukič has done it, and I really have to demarcate it again. 24 hours In the evening, Pop TV released three contributions with sound recordings. On October 18th, it was published for the first time, and it was a glue, Mrs Sukič, I ask you to remember this because it was acknowledged and confirmed by a ton expert. This was a glue of at least four recordings, together and a tonic expert, Mr Krapsa, confirmed this. No one denied that it was a glue. No one, neither do I. And it's not true that I later said that she wasn't a glue, because this first video, which was released on October 18th, was taped by four videos proven by an expert. I hope, well, I won't hear again that I said once that she's a glue, second that she's not a glue. This video was a glue, which is expertly confirmed. From this first glue, from which comes the “stupid tax” affair, which has never been, because it is a mounted discreditation of me personally, it cannot be concluded what we were talking about at the time. No, because it has been glued from four different segments of the conversation and you can completely change the meaning of the conversation if you want – and this was wanted, done, just to discredit me. Why was it glued if the conversation itself was contentious? Why? Does anyone know how to answer that? Why did an illegal, illegal recording have to be mounted to be burdensome? If I had been burdened by myself and I had ever advised anyone or said that paying taxes was stupid, why not just play an authentic video and be done with it? Why did it have to be mounted? I'm asking, rhetorical. Then there was a publication on 3 November, a longer recording that was not assembled, but there was no “stupid tax” affair there. I'm sorry, but there was no way to conclude this, because it was only on the basis of the first editing, and then again, there were four shorter recordings on November 8th. So, with all responsibility, I claim that the first video, published on POP TV, was a editing from which there was an affair that was not and is virtual and actually came to you for this interpretation. This interpretation, my fellow Members, would not be because I know that some of the parliamentary groups would not support it and did not sign it when the results of the water referendum were known or until October of this year. The language on the interpolation scale and for the signature of some parliamentary groups was this launched media affair with the aim of suspending the Visiak. Now I ask you why send a video to the public in October 2021 14 years ago, when I was also a minister in 2008; this is said to be another year after these recordings were made. I was in a hearing and was appointed Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in 2012 – there was no record of this. I was at the hearing – thank you Mrs. Sukič, you also praised me at this hearing – last March, when I took the ministerial role of Minister for Environment and Space – there was no video! Don't look at the fragment! It appeared after 14 years of October 2021. But please don't tell me that this is a coincidence; I don't know that Sava brought it, or the water brought it, or who brought it. This was launched with one goal and only purpose: to destroy the minister who runs the project, to stop the pigs in this Slovenia and to stop the wealth of individual companies on this account, which mainly belong to the domain of left-wing political parties or KUL. We need to be clear. Now, some answers to these last of your publications. Of course, Uncensored in the last two days publishes stupidity for stupidity. And you, I see you believe this and you're gonna get hold of these really stupid documents they're launching. Firstly, this solution to the law is intended to go to a close company managed by one SDS member and so on. The company Slopak is mentioned. Look, apparently no one has read the Environmental Protection Act and the new regulations of the manufacturer's extended liability. Manufacturers of waste packaging or products will themselves establish an organisation that will then manage the individual waste stream. That is to say, those who place waste on the market will organise and will also be owners and will also manage these companies or with such a company, that is to say with this organisation. The government will not do this, Vizjak will not do it, and the ILO will not do it. I don't know where you come from, Mr Cirman, who has already been proven in conflict of interest, when he reports and writes for the Uncensored, who owns the Departure, and has been previously employed at the Diary of Bojan Petan, that he has one conflict of interest, which he has already revealed to one of the political commentators, and of course he can't stop porking me personally now. [[…]] So, how can you come to the conclusion that one Slopak or anyone could become this organization if Vizjak wants to? Once again, this organisation will be set up by producers, economic operators. They're gonna own it, they're gonna set the rules for the game. Secondly, even more stupid is this document that came from Uncensored today. Look at the fraction, right on the day of the interpolation! And he's talking about the offer of the Kadu State Publishing to buy shares from Kad in the Terme Catež in 2007. And this is supposed to be one of mine, as I say, my role. This document does not mention the Visionary, not the signature of the Visionary, nor the Vizjak sent, nor the Vizjak received it, but this is the offer of the DZS Kadu to buy shares of Kad in Termah Catež. Now, what's the offer? She's crazy! Anyone who can count is another work by Bojan Petan, who no one believes, one blind maneuver, which not only does we all know that we know that he has planted such blind maneuvers, but is also unrealistically feasible. In view of the fact that DZS, which had 50 million euros in revenue and 3 million EBITDA in 2007, would buy – and was in charge of about 100 million euros – 40 million euros? Do you mean that this offer is serious so that a company with 50 million traffic costs about 40 million euros, because it is mainly labour intensive because trade and so on can offer to buy Terme Catež shares for 40 million euros? That's what the offer says. This offer is believed only by the fool Primož Cirman on the Uncensored, who publishes it. This is totally unrealistic, this can't happen! Well, the company's over-indebted. Not only should this offer, which is not serious and could not be feasible at all, be accepted, should the DHS issue a takeover offer and should buy the remaining shares at that price. Which means we should give the circus there 200 million euros for everything. One DZS, which had 50 million euros of annual income! This is indeed a bedtime story or for those who have no idea about these things. Once again, my fellow Members, I see what is going on here today: words, actions. I'm the one who said -- I apologized before outside and I'm going to do it again -- the thing about court eggs. I apologized, and that's an inappropriate word, and for which I'm sorry and distanced from her. But I have to defend myself here today for the words spoken 14 years ago, and no one else has to defend themselves against the acts that he did then and then made and damaged state property for more than 100 million euros, as well as small shareholders, who are in criminal proceedings, did not pay taxes on capital profits. But he doesn't have to defend himself, he's still on the board of society, and he's laughing at us. And I have to defend myself for actions. My actions don't count, even your nerves. All that the coalition has been saying since March, this has been said since this government's performance, all of this is irrelevant. That's how many people get access to healthy drinking water. We solved the problem in the Canal, where the mayor of the SD species consciously ignored the problem and only now approached the court when the bottom broke out, as if it came to us and that we were trying to solve it together. Because we are finally solving the problem of supplying the Coast with drinking water, which we are saving some of the key water protection areas in order to protect the resources of healthy drinking water. That's what they say. These acts don't count. No, more important are those words of an illegally recorded conversation that is on top of it. This is more important than anything! I'm such a man that I'm more of an operative; I'm putting something into words, and I'm putting a lot more into action. I'm not ashamed of my actions, Your Honor. Many, especially Mr Bojan Petan, could be ashamed of the fact that he destroyed a state-owned company and left the country with a great deal of debt, did not pay the tax, but at the same time I resent the state's failure to impose sanctions against it. I heard the obvious earlier, because we had the government, why we didn't sanction it. Mr Petan, or at that time the President of the Supervisory Board, did not pay the tax in 2008, which is based on the Marine annual report. Who had a government from 2008 to 2012? Social Democrats. As I recall, Borut Pahor was then the Prime Minister of the Government and your legal predecessors were mostly ruling there. Look, I never said in that other video that paying taxes is stupid. I said it was stupid to make business moves that hurt the country and society and shareholders. It's stupid to start. And as a result, of course, it is necessary to pay taxes, which Petan did not do as I said. Once again, when we talk about solving these accumulated problems, including municipal mud and so on, see, in response to the interpolation, I describe in detail how we solve these problems. I would ask you to really read it to yourself. I'm guessing you haven't read the answer to the interpretation. It's very extensive, but please read it to yourself, because that's what we're responding to. It is crucial that we resolve this and have a solution that will be implemented in a very short time given that we have received a completely unprepared situation in this area. Mr Lepo spoke about the involvement of the then ministers, state secretaries in the management of companies. Once again, let me make it clear: Adriana Starina Kosem, who was a secretary of state, as with me today, was the President of the Supervisory Board of the Capital Society, who was an important owner of Terme Catež. Yeah, well, how come he can't get involved in business? Or a minister who is actually her direct superior? This was then the mode of management that changed in 2010 because we joined the OECD and we received recommendations and we made one buffer, which was then called the Capital Investment Management Agency. Thus, in 2010, the Capital Investment Management Act was adopted, which put governance on the table, and until then what I told you was valid. And once again, I sat in 2006 in the Control Board of the Slovenian Power Plants as Minister at the time. That was perfectly normal back then. In 2000, with the late Minister Bajuk, we sat in the first Bajuk government in the SID Board of Banks, and in the banks we sat in the supervisory council! The State Secretary at the Ministry or Director of the Finance Directorate Mr. Zunič sat on the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. And now you're talking, you're wondering, because you're comparing today's situation, today's arrangement for the then arrangement. It was simply such an arrangement; not to say that it is now illegal and is not in accordance with the principles or this ethical code of governance of public companies. Thank you so much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukič once again wanted the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u38	Look, reverend minister, one more time. First of all, we're not in a court of law where we now judge Bojan Petan in absentia. We're at an interpolation where we're assessing some things that aren't right. You've been denying something all along, and you've been making excuses about some of the glues. I was wondering if you said or not when you spoke to Petan. I heard your voice, and I heard his voice. Does that mean they didn't hire players or what? Are they? I quote: "We can make a deal. Listen to me, Bojan, one thing. If we make a deal, I won't fuck you because I haven't got one yet." That's one of your statements. Then you claimed [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait till I say it all the way. You'll be commenting. Then you claimed, on October 27, when we announced the interpolation, you stated, quote: “I never promised that he would ever be the owner of Kad’s share, because Slovenian takeover legislation must be respected.” End of story. But what does the video reveal? Again, your voice or perhaps actors, I don't know. I quote: “There is none. You will have this Kad's share one way or another and you will be able to call the Supervisory Board immediately and do whatever you want.” End of story. Next: “We’re already going to crack the judge’s balls ” Respected, it’s not even that much I think, it’s also the vulgarity of your words to understand who don’t belong to a minister, but I’m not going to moralize whether your words are vulgar or not. [[…]] [[…]] It's about you saying a sentence, which means you're putting pressure on the judge. To someone who belongs to the autonomous branch of power, the judicial branch of power. That's what this is about! For political pressure from the post of Minister of Economic Affairs, then to someone who is a judge in the autonomous branch of power. It is. The content is important, respected, of this sentence. Not now, how vulgar you are. You were vulgar in this conversation, not only in the case of these eggs, but also in the way you're going to fuck someone or not, and so on. In short, a very domestic vocabulary. Look at the referendum. Here's what I'm gonna say. In every normal democratic country, respected ministers, ministers or heads of government give way to much less. It would've been enough of a referendum. We wouldn't even have to have an affair of "stupid taxes" to understand each other. Too bad we've got so much going on, it's got a lot going on, isn't it? Mainly, the people, 680,000 people, at that time, expressed to you a human distrust, if you will. Or, to tell you that you'll understand more, you've been interpolated at the time, haven't you? And now you can say that the people are deceived and stupid as you want, and that they have no idea how well-intentioned your marriage was and how wrong we all are, because we're all obviously stupid, even with me, who I read this marriage to understand each other. So, Your Honor, that won't count either. Don't you think? I really want to know, explain to us what it means, "we're going to break the judge's balls." Don't apologize for these eggs being a vulgar word, you'd better tell us what it means. How is it possible for a minister who should be a man of integrity to even think about something like this, not just to talk to someone, to talk to some tycoon, where it is about taking over a state-owned enterprise, and so on, where it goes — it is obvious in your conversation — even to avoid paying taxes and so on? And now you're gonna be selling us some fairy tales and hanging out, but I'm telling you, let's forget the stupid taxes. Just remember the referendum. Any minister with a minimum of honor and dignity would step down immediately after such a result. Right away, right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The minister wants to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u40	Yeah, I'm in the middle of something else. First, about the water referendum. Look, I've already said it in the beginning, and I'm gonna have to say it again and I'm happy to do it again. This was not the first referendum in the history of Slovenia. These referenda have already been quite something, and this has not been the worst defeat at the referendum. These too have been many, and no minister has ever given up or in any way taken on this responsibility. And I'll give you an example. Dr. Rado Bohinc was Minister of the Interior in the government of Anton Ropa in 2003 and was the so-called Technical Law on Deleted, which he lost with about a 95 % majority. 95 percent of the people refused. Has Mr. Rado Bohinc resigned? Was he being intertwined? Then he was Dr. Ivan Svetlik in 2011. The three referendums fell in turn; and with a convincing majority. Did he give up, or did he take responsibility? No, he was rewarded as a rector, and now you're expecting double vats. You have one for your KUL colleagues and one for me. And one more thing, the Waters Act, which was manipulated to make the head ache, has supported 104 thousand electorates and voters. You, Mrs. Sukič, with your entire Levika are worth, and good 80,000 voters, in 2014, 2018, sorry. That is to say, you have received fewer votes than the political party received by this law. The vote is not against, the vote is in favour. Unfortunately, there are only two choices for voters in the referendum. And once again, no one has ever given up or taken over or anything for the decisions of this national assembly. I was the proponent, in fact the Government, the Ministry of the Environment was the proponent to the government and the National Assembly took a decision. And by the principle of the division of power, I cannot take responsibility, of course, for the doing of the second branch of power. As for the conversation with Bojan Petan, which you mentioned, yes, I then tried in every way as a representative of the state to prevent damage and damage to state property. I wanted to prevent, I wanted to prevent the harmful takeover of Terme Catež by companies under the auspices of Bojan Petan. This is the National Press of Slovenia, Work Sales and so on. Until then, a country with 35% ownership of the company under the auspices of Bojan Petan with 30% ownership was, in fact, quite equal owners. The option was also to participate in the management of this company among the owners. The alternative was that he made the hostile takeover he had made, and I then told him that the country would do everything possible to protect its interest to prevent damage. And this is where the infamous one came in, for even the courts could, with certain provisional orders, which they often do, prevent such a harmful act. And from here came that expression out. If that explains it. In fact, I wanted to turn him away from this harmful act at the time. That this is a harmful act is proving itself today, and I've already told you. The company is over-indebted, practically the state has lost with this company and its entire group, including the State Publications, about EUR 100 million plus. It doesn't even pay people a solid salary, let alone restore tourism infrastructure and take care of the development of the company. So the company is over-indebted, destroyed, on its knees, and it shows exactly what I wanted to do at the time. If this is my sin, then I fully accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Once again, she wants to speak to the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u42	Minister, come on. And you really think we're all stupid, literally, literally. Then why are you still in Spain with this thief Petan, why have you allowed him to just drain 1.5 million cubic metres of thermal water annually, six times more than before, thus greatly increasing the risk of draining underground water storage in the Brežice area, which is at the lowest level in history. Why? That's what environmentalists think of as environmental crime, and you and Petan, who you're hitting today, what a thief he is, and you're some kind of honest man. That's amazing. Who are you telling? Or am I so terribly stupid, because if I am, believe me, I'm gonna quit, literally, because that's amazing. Next. You're saying that your marriage has supported more voters than the left. I have to tell you that not half of the SDS voters supported your marriage if you're going out on this. One more thing, sir, I don't care which ministers didn't back down once after the referendums. Is that what we want in politics?Oh, my God! A member of the LMŠ party resigned because of the affair of sandwiches, a respected, poor sandwich, and the man resigned; and you dare to do so. Do you understand what you're saying? You're saying that if once one stole something, that you could steal everyone to infinity forward and that nothing would ever change. You say that we will never raise the level of political culture in Slovenia, the political standards, the standards that should apply to prime ministers and so on to Members. You're kidding. You're talking because he didn't give up, and I don't have to. What are you kidding me about? Let's take a little look across the border and see why the ministers and the prime ministers go there. Look at why Kurz stepped down. Now, seriously. Yes, Prime Minister, neighbouring Austria, not long ago, which he resigned. Why is that? For much less than what we're talking about here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u44	Yes, Mrs. Sukič, I will never follow your standards, not expect that. I will comply with the standards of operation of this coalition, this government and I believe they count the actions and much less empty bubbles. Of course, Minister Left has never been able to step down because you never had one. [[advertising from the hall]] I hope not. I also want to tell you about the Terme Catež water concession. I don't know if you didn't listen to me, you didn't read anything I said in response to the interpretation as well as in the introduction. For decades, the terme Catež has not had an orderly concession, and this has been due to the fact that it has been avoided in a variety of ways. Of course, any concession relationship also entails obligations. The obligations are to monitor the pumped thermal water with monitoring, both quantities and temperatures, to ensure that thermal water is used thermally, without being released half-heat into the watercourses, and, of course, a concession fee should be paid. The Terme Catež has been around for decades — mostly left governments — to avoid this and we have finally arranged for the award of the concession and the conclusion of the concession contract for the quantities of water that were used on the basis of the expert bases of the Geological Survey of Terme Catež until then. And no more. And these are amounts of water that don't compromise the aquifer. If you do not believe me, please see the publications published at the Geological Survey of Slovenia, where they have made a professional basis, which quantities of water pumped in the area of this thermal aquifer are still tolerable for the aquifer to remain in condition. And based on the fact that Terme Catež did not have measuring devices until then, we concluded on their consumption at the time. And for that, actually, for less, they got a concession. However, later they will have to carry out the prescribed monitoring and pay a concession fee, which will be four times higher than before. That is to say, we have arranged for decades an irregular situation, and now you're telling me that we've given them some additional rights. But you're going to have to back up your findings a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next panellist is Mr Edward Paulic. Get ready, Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, nice to meet you. I will try to support these statements regarding the Terme Catež concession. But in the beginning, perhaps another response to your opening presentation. You have somehow regretted sitting here today, and Mr Petan is at large, and we do not have the same criteria for all. But here we need to know the distinction between criminal and political responsibility. And you're sitting here for political responsibility. However, as far as I know, Mr Petan is in other procedures. As far as the Terme Catež concession is concerned, we all know that the biggest shareholder of the Terme Company is owned by Bojan Petan. And it is also a fact that you, Mr Minister, know each other with Mr Petan. In the beginning, I'm going to give some facts about the award of the concession. I have looked at these publicly available data, the publicly available regulations you have issued. You'll fix me if I'm wrong, but still. In 2016, Terme Catež was awarded a concession to pump 250,000 cubic metres of thermal water per year. As you have already said and also stated in your reply, between 2017 and 2019, several inspections were carried out, and several irregularities were identified, and I think that even one temporary ban on the exercise of one part of the activity was imposed. And Terme Catež was pumped between 700 and 800 thousand cubic metres of water during this period, almost three times more than they were allowed to do. 30. 6. 2020, said shortly after your government launched, Terme Catež was asked to amend the concession from 250 000 to 1.1 million cubic metres of water per year, which means a four-fold increase in pumping. It is not irrelevant that you went a month later, Mr Minister, to meet Mr Petan on the subject of this new concession, at least so it is evident from the publicly available data in the Erar application, which records lobbying contacts. And then in November 2020, the government confirmed the increase in the concession. Instead of the original 250 thousand cubic meters, 1.1 million cubic meters of thermal water could be used. This is publicly available data. Why is it so controversial that it's one of the sights of interpolation? Because you have passed the formal rules governing the award of concessions. The legal basis is given by Article 137 of the Water Act, which provides for the concession to be granted if the water management plan so permits. This plan is designed on the basis of expert analyses, refreshed every five to six years. And the current plan is in force by the end of 2021. And what does this current plan to which you, in your reply, Mr. Minister, refer? Article 8 of the Water Management Plan Regulation provides that in the field of the karst-coast pool, where Terme Catež belongs, concessions may be granted only if the trend of groundwater levels is no longer declining. So, there is a condition, the concession is granted if the trend of groundwater is not falling. According to publicly available data, there are several documents proving that groundwater levels are falling in this area. The first document to discuss this is a document entitled Quantitative state of groundwater in Slovenia, produced by Arso. And on page 85 of this report we can find this picture, which clearly shows that there are significant trends in the area of wells used by Terme Catež. It's a publicly accessible picture. Then we have this explanation, which you mentioned in the opening presentation, explained by the Geological Survey of Slovenia, this explanation from this year, which provides the technical basis for the condition of the geothermal aquifer of the karst-Breža region. I will only take some of the key findings of this report. The Geological Survey notes that, in accordance with the precautionary principle, the prohibition and restriction of thermal water use has been imposed on this aquifer. This is in line with the water management plan I mentioned earlier. The report mentions that the trend in groundwater levels over recent years has shown a steady state, which of course does not mean that groundwater levels are no longer falling. On the contrary, it follows from the report that the Geological Survey cannot and cannot reliably assess water levels. That's right. In several places, they're talking about data spreads, data insecures, data gaps. In short, everything suggests that a reliable assessment of the condition of this aquifer is impossible to provide. And I'm going to quote just one part of this report, and they're going to write it down, and you're also referring to it when you mentioned that now after the new one, the Terme Catež must have installed measuring instruments on these wells. This report writes: “By establishing monitoring at all wells at the awarded concession, data will be made available permanently and federally at the hourly measurement interval. This will allow their statistical processing and, "Mr. Minister, be careful, "making a reliable assessment of the situation." Which means that, on the basis of this report, Termam Catež concessions should not be granted. But there is another, third key document. I mentioned earlier that the basis for granting the concession is the water management plan, which is adopted every five to six years. I mentioned that the existing plan, currently in force until the end of 2021, does not allow concessions to be granted if the level falls. And you are now preparing a new water management plan, so you published a document at the Ministry of Water Management in the Danube and Adriatic waters, which is an expert basis for a new water management plan at the Ministry of August 2020. This document is prepared in cooperation with the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the Water Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia, the Geological Institute of Slovenia. On page 52 of this document, which you, Minister, or your ministry published, wrote: “The area of the Cateque Dolomite Geothermal aquifer in Krk Cave has already reduced the data gaps by establishing monitoring of thermal water concessionaires. Currently, there is a relatively favourable trend in groundwater levels by slowing down the level.« So, Minister, in your document, which you have published publicly, you have written down that groundwater levels are still declining; however, you have already granted an additional concession in 2020, which allows Termam Catež to increase pumping four times. Even if we take the case that this first concession would be admissible in 2020, which, of course, I have now shown to you that it is not; in 2021 you granted an additional concession for an additional 400,000 cubic metres of water. I now refer to publicly available data and regulations, i.e. a total of one million and a half cubic metres of water; and without any additional obligations that some reports mention, the obligation to return thermal water to the aquifer, I am talking about these so-called re-injection wells. In short, Mr Minister, I believe that by granting this concession you have violated the Water Management Plan Regulation. And at least what should be taken into account here, if you have not already taken these reports into account by the professional institutions I have mentioned, is to respect the precautionary principle. When you're in doubt, you decide to take advantage of the environment. And I believe that you have not taken this principle into account in granting the concession, so at least at this point I believe that your political responsibility has undoubtedly been established. Not to mention that you have laid down significantly more stringent conditions for other applicants for the award of the concession, even though their requirements were significantly lower than those of Terme Catež. I have read your reply, Mr Minister, in very detail and in response you refer to the fact that the Terme Catež concession was only for the legalisation of the existing situation. You said that again before, but now I don't think it makes any sense. The terme Catež had concessions to draw 250,000 cubic metres of water. According to the Geological Survey and also according to your data on the website, between 700 and 800 thousand cubic metres were used unjustifiably; you gave them two successive concessions with which they could draw a million and a half cubic metres. If your intention were to be honest, you would grant a concession to pump such amounts of water as Terme Catež was then pumped, it would be about 700,000 cubic metres. If, of course, we leave aside the fact that concessions should not be awarded at all. This is about the concession. If I'm going to buy Petrol's shares. I have to say, there's quite a few coincidences here. You also said in your reply that you were buying shares in March and May 2020. It is very true that you have become a minister in this government in March 2020. It is true that in March 2020, the government, of which you are also a member, decided to extend fuel price regulation by 6 months. You yourself stated this in your reply, which means that at the time you were buying shares, you were aware of the government's intentions regarding the regulation or deregulation of the fuel market; unlike less-educated investors who did not have and could not have this information. You accidentally took a loan of €120,000 in March 2020 and bought 415 Petrol shares in March and May. This suggests some indication that you had inside information that you just took advantage of. The key element of your defence, at least as a result of your response, is that, after the government deregulation, each citizen bought shares at about the same price as you bought in March and May. Why can't this argument hold up? You're not an ordinary citizen, you're a member of the government. And already in March, during the first purchase of shares, you decided on the regulation or deregulation of fuel prices. You said that yourself. The government extended the regulation by six months in March. If I calculated this correctly, you bought the stock at an average price of EUR 289 per share. You were eligible for a dividend of €22 gross or €16 net per share, minus the tax. Which means, if I make it easy, you bought this stock for about 270 euros. Following the government's announcement that prices will be deregulation, it was a few days in October, but not the whole October, Mr Minister, for a few days, the share price was really around 300 euros, a little more, but there is one significant difference. The ordinary citizen, who then, according to October, bought shares, was not entitled to the payment of dividends. Which means that an ordinary citizen would have paid almost 30 euros per month for a share more than you. But it doesn't matter at all. In fact, it is irrelevant what the share price was in October when the government deregulated the fuel market. It is about whether, as a minister and a member of the government, you knew more about the government's future moves than an ordinary citizen in March and whether you took advantage of this information. The following is also fair, and you will, Minister, confirm or reject. On 2 September 2020, your ministry is expected to receive material on the issue of fuel price deregulation in inter-resortment coordination. We read in the media that you or your ministry have given an opinion that opposes the construction of new petrol services. But it is precisely the possibility of building new petrol services, according to the AVK, that is to say the Competition Agency, a key condition that new suppliers can enter the fuel market at all and thus create more effective competition. And the fact is that your negative opinion is very much in favour of Petrol – where you have quite a few shares – and the Hungarian oil dealer MOL, who recently bought the company OMV Slovenia. Both companies have a market share of more than 70% on the Slovenian market. And if there is a duopol on any market, and I estimate that there is no special pressure in Slovenia to reduce the sales margins and there will be no. In view of everything, there are almost too many coincidences here that there would be at least no suspicion of the abuse of internal information you had as a member of the government. And this is just one of the pieces in the mosaic of determining your political responsibility. As far as the adoption of the novel Water Act is concerned. Slovenia is one of the few countries that has this right enshrined in the Constitution. And this does not only mean that everyone has the right to clean drinking water, it also means that this right must be enjoyed by the State in particular. The Signatories of Interpellation give you the responsibility to prepare an environmentally harmful Water Act, to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Aarhus Convention, to lay down the Environmental Protection Act and other principles of environmental management. If I give you a brief chronology, this novel of the Water Act will be adopted. You put the novel in a public debate of 20. Ten. 2020. In the event of such important changes which may have an impact on the water situation, public treatment should take a long time to identify the professional public and define this qualitatively. But you were in a hurry and the public hearing lasted 14 days. Then the law went to intersectoral coordination, where you added an extremely controversial article that would allow the construction of buildings using hazardous substances in water protection areas. And in January of this year, you submitted the novel to the National Assembly. Not only did you have an extremely fast public hearing, but you have also proposed a short-term consideration of the novel in the National Assembly and, of course, created additional time pressure to adopt this controversial novel. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow for reduced treatment but for less important or difficult changes. But the fact is, Mr Minister, we cannot compare the complexity of the changes with the number of articles that change in the law, but we need to look at these changes in substance. And these changes that you made to the National Assembly were still of some importance, for they contained a controversial provision on the construction of hazardous materials in water protection areas. If we look at the oral explanation given by the Secretary-General of the Government when he explained at the meeting of the College of the National Assembly the reasons why you are submitting the novel after a reduced procedure, we can see that this explanation was given in a few sentences. The Secretary spoke only about the amendment of the Water Fund and he did not touch on this disputed provision, which you added after the public hearing. Likewise in this description of the main solutions, this is a mandatory part of the bill when it is submitted to the procedure in the National Assembly, you do not mention the disputed article in a word. Minister, I think we should be aware that this amendment of the law is about any other important changes. It was about changes that had a root or root effect on water conditions and on our living environment, but you did propose a reduced procedure. In your response to the interpretation, you refer to the fact that this reduced procedure has been adopted by the National Assembly, which is true, but the fact is that the College of the President of the National Assembly on the proposal for a reduced procedure would not be able to decide if you did not propose it, but we all know what the coalition vote is in the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly. After this short procedure with the votes of the coalition was confirmed and before the novel was discussed on the parent committee, you added another very controversial content. You added the possibility of building public buildings on water and coastal land as defined by the Construction Law. It should be known that in the case of objects of public use, perhaps this word is a bit misleading, it is primarily private-owned objects. Among other things, we are talking about the construction of hotels, restaurants, parking lots, shopping centres and not only the construction of playgrounds and cycling routes, as you have explained on the committee this proposal. So you are one, let's say, a good solution, this is the release of the Water Fund, you added 2 extremely harmful provisions, and then at the expense of this good solution to the opposition you saw opposition to the law, but it's about the already well-known manoeuvres that you've done in the past when you've been investing in the PKP laws and elsewhere. And my opinion is, if your purpose were to be truly sincere, if you wanted to increase the means to rehabilitate watercourses, then you would simply do it in a way that would only change this article; and I am sure that no one in the opposition would object. In view of what I have listed, you have violated Articles 7 and 8 of the Aarhus Convention, which speaks of the need to allow public participation at a stage when all options are still open. And once the proposal is in the parliamentary procedure, this participation of the public is substantially reduced. And it would be good if, after such drastic changes to the novel as have taken place in this case, the amendment of the law should be reinstated in the additional opinion of the professional public. Then you played the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when you proposed the amendment of the law to be adopted after a reduced procedure, excluding the key controversial articles from the explanation of the proposal. Then you violated Article 4 of the Water Directive because you have not shown a public interest that would allow you to deteriorate water conditions due to the prevailing public interest. Therefore, the people at the referendum expressed their public interest very clearly. Then you violated the precautionary principle, in response to the interpolation, Mr Minister, which you yourself acknowledged when you wrote that the precautionary principle is a real slow-track policy, which in the context of the covida-19 pandemic and the short term this Government of the Republic of Slovenia could not fully follow. That's what you wrote in your reply. Mr Minister, the short term of this government, and even less of an excuse for a health epidemic, is not an excuse for what you wanted to do. And I don't know what the above has to do with allowing disputed constructions. Maybe you can explain this to me later. When this novel was on the committee and also later at the plenary session, we all in the opposition drew attention in one voice to the contention and harmfulness of the law. But you, Minister, were very passionate about these changes at the time. In addition, the government, as well as the practice of the new, as far as I know, has confirmed the amendments of the coalition, which means that it has agreed to do so. In the opposition, we have been used all this time to our warnings – warning the opposition mostly you do not listen, but I really do not understand why you do not listen to the professional public. If I say very plastic, everyone except the government and the coalition is either opposed to accepting this novel. She opposed the opposition, warned you about the Faculty of Construction, a key institution that educates experts in the field of leadership. You have been warned that these changes will have a negative impact on flood safety, the quality of water resources, not to mention everything. You have been warned by the Association of Civil Initiatives, which has very clearly and concretely written down which all laws – domestically, internationally – you are in violation. You, Mr. Minister, have been approached three times by the Ombudsman. And you didn't listen to him either. On the Ombudsman's website, we can find a record where you find a violation of article 34a of the Environmental Protection Act, article 44 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the basic purpose and purpose of the Aarhus Convention. And of course, the final warning gave you the people at the referendum. Your response to the referendum was, in my opinion, disrespectful to citizens and citizens, and particularly underestimating. I believe that your political responsibility is also proven in this point. But I'd still like to take some of your other actions. The fact is, throughout the ministry, you are showing the intensity of the exclusion of NGOs and civil society from virtually all processes concerning the environment. We could see this in PKP1, when under the pretense of intervention you substantially tightened the conditions of operation of NGOs. Same under the Nature Conservation Act. In the Construction Law, you wanted NGOs, say NGOs, to be excluded from the process of a foreign participant, which was later changed. However, you have established substantially higher fees for appeals procedures. But the fact is, high fees for NGOs that have no idea how many assets are a deterrent effect. Shortly after the term of office, we were able to read in the media, and you will say, Minister, whether it is true or not, you have dismissed the service for the environment system and the space that acted as a legal service. And then you entrusted the preparation of the Construction Law to an external law firm that is in obvious conflict of interest. And the same move, you made the same manoeuvre in drafting the Environmental Protection Act when you signed a legal aid agreement with an external society to amend the laws. I'm not even going to mention the value of this contract because it's very high. And with this, Minister, you have obviously violated the Resolution on Regulatory Activities adopted by this National Assembly. The fifth point of the resolution states: "Preparation or adoption of regulations is the main task of the state administration, namely ministries. Therefore, ministries must be staffed and technically trained to monitor and regulate the areas for which they are established. In doing so, they are certainly welcome to help the public, civil society or individual experts outside the administration, but they cannot and must not perform their tasks instead, as they are not adequately qualified for this work.” And that's exactly what you did. You have entrusted external lawyers or two companies with the preparation of legal proposals. I don't expect you to step down today, Mr. Secretary. Because if they had that purpose, they would have done it already. I have sincerely tried to be very professional and non-political in this debate. And I've given you a few facts, a few legal bases that point to the existence of your political responsibility. And, of course, it's no secret how I'm voting today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is given by Minister Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President. From the last end. We at the Ministry wanted to change certain arrangements in this mandate, in accordance with the Coalition Treaty, because this was necessary because there were major anomalies in practice. That's the way it is with the Act of Preservation. Everyone knows that the adoption of municipal spatial plans as well as the acquisition of building permits takes too long, that it is bureaucratic and that simplifications must be done here. Similarly, the Environmental Protection Act, where we have had 17 infringements of the European acquis, some already in the pre-trial procedure, has threatened us with penalties for some. It was necessary to act quickly and professionally. People who were part of the problem are not part of the solution. Many at the Ministry of Environment and Space, in particular in the field of waste, have not been able to solve these problems. Similarly, in building legislation and regulation of space, we have sought external expertise in order to make the procedures effective, consistent with the European legal order and also with investors and the environment, so that the procedures are effective, without risks to the environment. That's why we also hired external expertise. It's a practice, many ministries do it. And I am therefore proud that we are and that this National Assembly has adopted the Construction Law and the Law on the Regulation of Space, which are good regulations, have taken into account and addressed many problems so far. Nor would the Environmental Protection Act, which is before you, have been adopted in such a form if only those at the Ministry were to listen to the problem. Many have problems when the status of the waste ceases. They do not know the ambition of the elements of the circular economy, that sometimes waste should be converted by proper treatment into a product to make it work the whole world, the directives of the European Union go in this direction. And so, of course, we relied on external aid to have better legislation; and for nothing else. That was the basic motive. I believe that the legislation is very well prepared, and we have not violated any provisions of these guidelines or provisions that speak of the way in which the Government should prepare the acts to be adopted or forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly. As far as the Water Act is concerned. The Water Act contained only 7 articles, was on two sides and did not affect any system regulation in the field of water. It had 2 substantive provisions, that is, how, under which conditions and in which cases intervention is allowed on coastal or water land; and provide more money for the economic public water management service. Why a 14-day deadline and why some kind of rush at it? For the first time, since it was necessary to start soon with parts on the watercourses, this part is said to increase the resources of the Water Fund also for the maintenance of watercourse management, it was seasonally conditioned, works being done within certain deadlines of years also due to nature, environment and so on. That is why, of course, we have also set a 14-day deadline for this reason, and it is worth further underlining that there has been no systemic change; it has been a minor change in the law, since we have in fact exacerbated the conditions of interference with coastal and water lands. In other words, interventions are not allowed under this law. If it were a private use facility, if the facility had any effect on flood risk, if the facility had any effect on water condition, if the intervention was contrary to the water management plan previously quoted and some other restrictions. It is said, practically a very selective possibility of intervention. Of course, I am sorry that people have rejected this, but I respect this referendum will, just not to tell me that we did not respect article 34a of the Environmental Protection Act, which allows only a 14-day public publication. But how the law then changed in subsequent stages, especially in the National Assembly, is another issue. This is also, according to the regulations of the National Assembly, a public and transparent way in which the law of amendments is adopted and amended in the National Assembly. If not, it's probably more of a question for someone other than myself, what rules do you have for adopting regulations and amendments in the National Assembly? As far as Petrol is concerned, honourable Member, once again. It is probably not you who will judge whether I broke any rules when purchasing shares because we have the competent institutions in Slovenia to do so. These competent institutions have brought proceedings against me and have not found that anything would be wrong. That's not an abuse, but you're still talking about the suspicion of abuse. Don't say it's not biased. You deny the views and conclusions of the professional institutions that have not identified any abuse and have stopped all proceedings against me. Once again, as a member of the government, in fact, price regulation or deregulation was a procedure which was publicly known. Read the clips, including my Minister's colleague Zdravka Počvalska, who, in fact, took over the mandate in the government of SMC for deregulation and partly carried out it. Thank God, I think that's the only right thing to do, because only Slovenia had a price regulation for petroleum derivatives; it's right that we deregulated it. And this was generally known to be every six months on the table, March and September, this was generally known. If you are not aware of this, then there is probably a problem elsewhere, but I advise you – take a little interest, Google it a little and you will see many public announcements on the subject of deregulation and regulation. Not to say that it was not publicly known to everyone that it was always decided in March and September each year, as the regulation was extended for half a year. You can nod your head, but you don't know that clearly. Last March, we extended price regulation, and that matches my purchase. I didn't buy Petrol's shares back then. I was Petrol's shareholder before. It wasn't my decision to buy something then. No, I didn't exactly rent that kind of loan to buy the shares you mentioned. The sum was substantially, substantially, substantially lower, it was actually some kind of consumer credit. As far as the construction of additional petrol services is concerned, of course, the environmental ministry's position is such that each petrol service is at its own risk in the environment, even because it has embedded tanks; and I believe that these gas services in the Republic of Slovenia are sufficient, are very accessible to people, the network, I think, is comparable to others and I do not see the problem here. In the end, there's something else about this Termam Catež concession. I don't know how to tell you this, but it wasn't about a new concession, it was about legalizing the existing use of water, which was covered in paper, because it was pumping water, and no one knew how much. That was the problem, and Terme Catež should be shut down for this. They should be closed for this reason, and therefore there have been numerous inspections and orders. And then when we actually found, on the basis of the expert bases of the Geological Survey, how acceptable the situation for the thermal water pumping in Terme Catež, which does not worsen the condition, this number was published, that is 80 litres per second on this part of the aquifer; and for this there was also a concession, in fact a little less, due to the precautionary principle. So once again, it was not a new concession, and here is your original, but it was a legalization of the existing water use, which no government has arranged before me. The terme Catež has existed there for centuries. Not for centuries, but 100 years before the war there was a termite. Please, now that we have finally arranged this, that the concessionaire will have to monitor the quantities and temperatures of water when he has to pay to the country, but now a problem has arisen on your part and the obvious. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. I really don't have time to answer all this in these three minutes, or I've explained everything in detail in the research itself, but this concession Termam Catež, Mr Minister. They had a concession of 250,000 cubic metres, they pumped 700 thousand, you allowed them to pump a million and a half million with two concessions. And that's true, I have all the papers here, I can bring them to you. And there's something very important you've just mentioned in your last reply. You said that the expert institutes found that Terme Catež could draw 80 liters of this thermal water per hour. And that you gave them even a smaller flow of caution. I have here a document from 2020, a regulation, and already this first regulation allows them to pump 141.7 litres per second, Minister. Twice as many as allowed, and you just said you've made this flow even less possible. This is the first regulation, 2020. The second regulation further increased this allowed movement and I am afraid that you are very, or I will say that you assumed quite correctly when you said that the problem of the operation of the Terme Catež might even have to close them, I don't know, but you violated the water management plan. The trend of level after three reports in the karst-breath aquifer area is declining, that is a fact. And that's a manifest violation, proven, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is given by Minister Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u52	Please read the expert basis of the Geological Survey, which says that the amount of 80 litres per second or 2 million 522 thousand cubic metres per year is the quantity that is acceptable for maintaining the aquifer condition. And they got less than that in common. And it's about legalising the existing state of affairs and regulating concession relations. No one knew before we signed this and arranged how much water they draw; and we could push our heads into the sand and this situation would still be messy and in fact demand someone else to sort it out. We have not violated anything, honourable Member, believe me. The second thing I would have done here is, I had forgotten to answer Mrs Sukič earlier about the Construction Law and some corruption to my fellow Member Simonovic. In the previous construction law, it seems to me that this is Article 116 or 117 on the so-called Longer Existence Objects. These were buildings that were built before 2008. In the framework of the new construction law, we moved this year from 1998 to 2005. According to all public information on this construction, which has not affected even a minimum of any of our decisions at the Ministry, the facility has been there since 1997. And there's a legalization under the law that's already in force. And a new marriage has nothing to do with anything. And this is really one trick for me, for a Member, for legal professionals who have participated in the drafting of this law and who represent the Member. In fact, matters are politicized, malicious, even on a personal level, but they do not have any basis in fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I'll come by again, then, Minister, I won't be here again, but I have these official documents right here. I have read in great detail the report of the Geological Survey of Slovenia, in very detail. And once again, I claim that by granting additional concessions, you have exceeded the permitted thermal water flow for a second. Instead of giving them 80 liters, I can give you this regulation by the first regulation of 141 liters per second. Unfortunately, I can't find another regulation, I know the number is even bigger, but the fact is, the Geological Survey report says that the water trend in this area is declining. He's also talking about data being unreliable, data gaps. If I give you just one example of what this report is talking about, in 2021 three test wells were made to determine the trend of groundwater. On three wells, they found extremely different data, from 125 meters on one well to 140 on the other, and I think it was 139 on the third, but it's not important. The point is, the data is unreliable. And you yourself have said that now that the Termes have the Catež concession, they are obliged to install the measuring devices and we will finally know what the situation is. But here we are violating the precautionary principle, violating the water management plan. There's a lot of stuff going on, Minister. And this is where I'm gonna end up, because you'll probably have an answer like the last one. But I can give you those papers if you want. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u56	Dear Member, I do not have to give papers which have been formally accepted and accepted by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Environment and Space. But you forget that even there, the condition of the vortex was replaced by that of some who had stopped, that some had increased. These are all the arguments that the Geological Survey has taken into account in this. In doing so, it is very important that the expert bases made by the Geological Survey on the state of the aquifer have produced a new availability assessment based on an analysis of trends in expenditure and reductions and the interactions of wells in Catež and Dobova. For Terme Čatež, the Geological Institute of Slovenia has also prepared a report on the operational monitoring for the collection of water for both years and the concession granted is fully consistent with these professional bases and does not jeopardise the condition of the aquifer. However, monitoring should also be carried out in the future and appropriate measures to protect the aquifer are, of course, available if this happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Replica, Edward Paulich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u58	I, the Presidents, forgive you all and all Members, and it will be the last time. I have previously quoted in my debate one passage from this report, which you have mentioned now, and I will quote it again. “By establishing monitoring of thermal water concessionaires, the area of the Cateka Dolomite Geothermal aquifer in Krška boiler has already reduced the data gaps. Currently, there are relatively favourable trends in groundwater levels by slowing down the level.« This report, which we are both now referring to, speaks of a trend towards lowering water levels. While talking about better, more reliable data. This is a direct infringement of this Regulation or management plans. This is where I'm really gonna end up, and I'm not gonna burden you anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u60	I am grateful that you have read this, but how to explain professionally what you said, if the trend of falling water is decreasing and the situation is favourable. What does that mean? That the inflow to the aquifer is greater than the uptake, which means that the trend is improving. Now you are problematic about the trend of subtraction, which is smaller than the tide, because falling is slowly stopping. That's more than proof of what it is. And you can't stop, I see.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u61	Replica, Edward Paulich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u62	We won't make it to the end, Mr. Secretary. Slowing down the levels. That means, the level, the downward trend is that if this trend is slowing down, it means it's still falling, but it's slower. Right now, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, I won't be any more.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u64	Dear Minister, if it weren't for such a tragic dimension, it would be ridiculous already. Reducing the downward trend at the lowest level in history that should not be affected in this way. Are we really that stupid? Let us stop being so stupid, please. In Brežice, in the Brežice area, underground water storage is at the lowest level in history and environmentalists estimate that you have allowed this to now Terme Cátez can draw six times more water than before, says 1.5 million cubic metres of thermal water annually for environmental crime. And now you're talking here – yes, a bit has slowed down the trend of falling water levels, which is already too low, this level, at the lowest level in history. And now you're telling us that we're all stupid and everything's fine. That's one of my comments. I have to respond to your manipulation again when you walk us up and down here like we're really a little stupid. I'm really starting to feel like this. With regard to this foreign attorney's office, I'm sorry, Madam President, that you're in the game, but I'm just going to read what the media is writing because I'm not going to go with you anymore, but I'm going to quote, and then you're going to explain it to me. Wait till I tell you because you manipulated me a little bit earlier. They say: "Desus Ambassador Branko Simonovic will be able to legalise his black construction in Semedela nad Koprom if a new construction law is adopted." Which has already been adopted. As they reveal at 24ur.com, “the law was not written by officials at the Ministry of Environment and Space, but by Domna Neffat’s law firm, which also represents Simonovic.” This detail could explain why Simonovic's voice, although formally in opposition, has become decisive in maintaining most of the SDS, NSI and SMC coalition in the National Assembly. And then, of course, Mr Simonovich rejects the obvious, but look. Last year, RTV Slovenia reported, last year, that the Koper Administrative Unit rejected the role of Member Desus in legalising the farm site in Semedela. Rejected. You said you could have done it after the previous legislation, but she refused. In the process, he wanted to obtain permission to legalize the facility as an auxiliary facility in which it could be accommodated. Simonovic built a farm shop without permission, even staying in it, although he claimed otherwise in the proceedings before the administrative unit. In the rejection decision of the administrative unit, it was stated that in 2020, the Regionalobala.si website reported that the fact that the facility in question had been built and reconstructed several times since 1998 does not exist at the same level as in 1997. The purpose of the building was also agricultural, not residential, but today it is intended to stay. Simonovic then complained to the Ministry of Environment and Space about the decision. But the story of the messenger's black construction didn't end at this point. At 24ur.com, it was discovered that Andrej Vizjak, the competent minister for the environment and space, said you, soon after the beginning of the function of March 2020, dismissed the service for the environment system and the space that acted as the Ministry's legal service in charge of drafting legislation. And then you flew into Neffat's office, his law firm, 19 grand you gave to this office. And then we get to the new Construction Law, which now without a problem makes this legalization possible. Please, let's be precise. You can't serve us here as soon as you can. Yeah, I guess I couldn't. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u66	Dear Member, I have only told you what the previous law has regulated as regards longer-lasting objects and what the current law governs as regards longer-lasting objects. And with regard to longer-lasting objects, anyone could have legalized facilities from 1997 even under the previous law. And for this he did not have to wait for a new law and therefore has no effect on these facilities. The way someone legalized this, I don't go down, even if it was in the administrative unit, it's a story. If this was about a change of purpose or some other purposeful use or whatever, I was just talking about longer-lived objects. And nothing has changed for these because it is necessary to have the same evidence that, from the beginning until then, the purpose and the like has not changed, in short, the whole species. I ask you to read this article, and you will see how it is possible to legalise a building under this Article, and that, of course, the adoption of a new law has absolutely nothing to do with this particular case. That's one thing. The other thing is that you're talking about disbanding this certain law-making service. We have not done anything professionally to the Ministry in this area, but we have moved officials who have been working professionally in the drafting of legislation from a central unit in the Cabinet of Ministers to the Directorates where they are actually doing their substantive work. And they made it. The Construction Law and the Space Regulation Act were prepared in 98% within the Directorate and with experts. The company you are referring to has only participated in some of the details or related matters, more or less, in participating in this environmental part of the integral building permit; and it has nothing to do with the drafting of this law. And she could not get the symbolic fee she had received for the preparation of these two regulations. That has nothing to do with it. I'd like to stress it to you. And these are some of the teasing you're going to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u67	Mr. Nataša Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u68	Wait, what exactly did this company do for 19,000 euros? Nineteen thousand euros is a change for you. I think it's a very large number. Well, I've got a parliamentary salary, but I don't think it's a little bit of a figure. What exactly did they do and why is it that this company in all the law firms we have in Slovenia that makes sense for the company of Member Simonovic? Are these all the cases, or what? Really?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u69	Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u70	We choose legal associates according to their references and knowledge. And given what they can do for a certain amount of money. The signed contract with the solicitor's company was not nearly paid because it was not necessary because we did more work ourselves and significantly less. And it wasn't the number you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u71	Representative of the proposer, Nataš Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u72	Once again, Minister, give us a concrete answer to what this law firm has done that has never before dealt with construction legislation. That's clear, too. What did she do about this marriage? Tell me directly what she's done to get 19 grand or what she's got now, even if you've paid less. Tell me how much she got and what she did. Why this company that has never dealt with construction legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u73	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u74	We've been through this to the public. I don't know these numbers from my head. I'll get you in half an hour. At the very least, what's in this statement of yours is that this law firm didn't deal with construction legislation, because it was the opposite. This company is also very active in preparing or proposing changes, as well as in teaching and organising seminars on building legislation. This is a very active society in this area. But let's get you both the data.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u76	Minister, for the third time, I'm asking what they've done with this building law. What do you mean? Tell me exactly what. You still haven't said what. You just said they were dealing with building legislation, or the media says they weren't, but they were fine. Again, your word against what we read in the media, okay. Let's say they did. Tell me exactly why you should have outsourced when you have your own people at the Ministry. What have they done specifically, and what is it that your staff within the Ministry are unable to do within their salaries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u77	Mrs. Sukich, I told you before. I don't know, and within half an hour, I'm going to give you the answer to the question of what they were doing and what money they were doing. I don't know if you're not, you're not listening. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Only Bevk has the word. Get Miha Kordish ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Yesterday, for the first time in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, a meeting of the National Assembly was obstructed by a ruling coalition, together with a small part of the constructive opposition. This indicates the powerlessness of the current government outfit and the weakness of the government coalition in the National Assembly. From the point to the point, from the amendment to the amendment shakes, whether or not it will rip out the most prickly majority each time. It just didn't work out yesterday, so the government coalition in opposition maneuvers walked peacefully out of the hall. The world has turned to its head. The ruling coalition serves tools that have been reserved only for the opposition so far. There's something very rotten in this country if I say Hamlet. Let me say that alone and the Social Democrats would rather deal with substantive legislative projects than interpretations. However, the number of interpolations indicates that the current current suit is not in line with the challenges of today's extremely complex situation, facing a health crisis and the upcoming social and energy crisis; and that many ministers are being overly affected by a slippery political floor. I would also prefer to deal with projects in the field of environmental protection, spatial policy or the challenges of the climate crisis. As in previous mandates, in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space, I managed to implement a regulation on the prevention and control of light pollution, a change in the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia when we deleted the reservation of space for the construction of a mega-man and environmentally harmful hydroelectric power plant in Trebuša on the Idrijca River or when we succeeded in introducing a comprehensive 4th development axis in the area of modernisation of the state road network into the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia. Today, there is more than a 16-hour debate on the interpretation and work and the responsibilities of the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrea Vissiak. I can't afford it, but it's mostly his fault. Nor do I afford many employees in the National Assembly who will have to spend time with us until the mornings above. In response to the interpellation, Minister Vizjak asked what motive the holder had for the recording in order to obtain its publication. But such and similar affairs, where there has been a wiretap or publication of confidential conversations in four eyes, have been countless in Slovenia’s recent history. Let me list some of them: Sanader and Janša in the summer of 2004, Rob and Vodušek in June 2007 or the most infamous case in the so-called arbitration affair when Zagreb's Vecernji list published a conversation between Drennikov and Sekolec in 2015. Here are a number of cases that have ended in one way or another due to the mistakes and superficiality of the competent authorities: Zidar, Kangler, Kamennik, Šuštar, Lončarič, Jankovic, Balkan Warrior and could also be listed. However, the decision to resign Minister for me is not "stupid taxes" or "hard organs", but the result of the universal vote in the referendum on the amendment of the Water Act, where almost 700,000 voters and voters decided against the law plebiscite and thus voted in the most authentic manner not to trust Minister Viszak and the entire government, led by President Janez Janša. Minister Mag. Visjak today drew a parallel with the three-way referendum in 2011, when due to the fall of three laws, the competent minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, did not give up. This was a completely unfortunate comparison. The fact is that it was precisely because of this three-year referendum that the government of Borut Pahor resigned because it had lost the trust of coalition partners, also because of political calculus. As today, due to political accountability and shortsightedness, coalition partners and part of the constructive opposition support the minority government coalition. In 2011, there was also a pension reform in the referendum, which fell. However, the gesture of the then President of the Constitutional Court, Ernest Petrič, at the end of his term in November 2013 was significant, regretting his decision and the decision of the Constitutional Court not to prohibit the referendum on pension reform. Let me conclude with the words of my fellow Member, Soniboy Knezak, who said that I do not expect you to do what you should have done on the day of the Water Act referendum on 11 July this year. However, our and the eyes of the Slovenian public, as colleagues Knezak said, are opposed to Members and Members of the coalition parties, including New Slovenia, which is working hard, but has acknowledged that everything in our or your work has not been as it should have been. Finally, there is something else about the rules of procedure. I am only a third-declared debater, who has come to the floor in six hours, I have 65 more applications, of course there will probably be countless duels between the minister and the interpelling proponents. In this regard, I also propose an appropriate amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Get ready for Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, chairman. An affair of stupid taxes or weightlifting with influence in state companies, and who will cut off some piece of property in these state-owned companies, then targeting the hatching of eggs in the judicial branch of government is something that we are currently pursuing as an exclusive example of corruption in today's session. But in fact it is a fairly consistent and fair drawing, an example of how the capitalist state works – business as a verbal link of the capitalist country under the tactics of the service policy, coupled with individual concentration of capital. Of course, Minister Vizjak is quick to argue how he protected state property on the issue of Terme Catež, which is quite difficult to believe with regard to the documents that came out today, is that capitalist Petan offered a binding offer of €41 million to take over these concrete Terme Catež. Moreover, this was not the case in some social political vacuum, which was under the first government of Janez Janša, who took the formation of a national bourgeoisie for her chronic project. By speeding up the privatisation of state assets in the form of takwon takeovers, when managers secured their loans with the shares of the target company, it allowed for the cheap money that Slovenia gained access to through the introduction of the euro currency. Well, and what happened under Janez Janša's first government is overheating the economy. Conscientiously and with the support of the government, this economy has become over-indebted and, last but not least, transformed into a burden on all citizens and citizens in the form of a tax hole because the country has little nationalisation of the debts created by these tycoons. And this tacunaisation, as the project is known, was therefore a national bourgeoisie project to concentrate ownership of production assets in that country in the hands of a narrow minority of so-called economic captains, who should then control the bulk of the economy. The idea for this whole operation of the formation of national bourgeoisie, known as tycunization, is the division of power. A handful of tycoons gain virtually all leverage over the operation of the economy in exchange for the fact that a party to the SDS as a political esteblishment can acquire a country. And then, this was the idea of the then-Janša government, both groups, the Taiwanese-economic-SDS-political-supporting-and-counselling-to-be. And what we call corruption today is the normal way of operating a capitalist economy and a country as a service of concentrated capital. I think Minister Visjak should lose his position for his actions. I think that for participation in a criminal association known as the third government of Janez Janša, you should also be responsible. However, we must be aware that, as long as we are ruled by a capitalist economy, a market with an infinite imperative of accumulation, there will always be a disproportionate social power being poured into the hands of individual capitalists. Then they can easily access the individual minister, the individual ministry, including the suitcases containing such and different services, in a million euros and beyond. And we can interpret all the ministers in the government of Janez Janša, we can interpret all the ministers in any future government, because they will be exposed to this kind of pressure from the private sector known as lobbying. Not surprisingly, Washington practically runs Wall Street and a group of corporations that don't pay taxes, but Brussels has 70 thousand lobbyists. Until we address the issue of the root, with which Minister Vizjak is also operating, this is that the scope of the public must be reduced as much as possible so that they can earn, at the expense of the private in the privileged handful of capitalists, a key lever of corruption will persist and move on. The alternative proposed by the Socialists on this topic is, of course, labour management in the economy. If companies are in the hands and under the co-administration of those who create them, I am talking about large companies, corporations and so on, then it is much harder for a single person at the top of these companies to abuse their disproportionate social power in order to influence public forms of power, such as ministries, ministers, the National Assembly and so on. Even if the lies of Minister Visiak about how he was merely defending state property were taken seriously, this is still very problematic. After all, who has elected Mr Petan to influence the lives of thousands and thousands of citizens and citizens, in order to intercede with companies on which the lives of certain working families depend. That's what we have to ask here. As long as the capitalists of Petani are here, then there will always be ministers of Vision. And the cycle of capital accumulation will go on, as the story continued in the case of Terme Catež, when virtually overnight the Ministry under Minister Visiak has stepped up its appetites by increasing the quantity of thermal water from 250,000 cubic metres to 1.5 million cubic metres per year. Why? Not because this would be of any social benefit, but the water level is already at a historical low level. But only so that people at the Terme Catež summit can further strengthen their position. Thus, Minister Vizjak does not oppose the harmful trends of influence on public authority, which lies in the concentration of capital, but it is a process that promotes it itself, in which it is joyfully involved and which in its extreme forms strikes the public in a way that we know as corruption. And, of course, I will support today's interpretation of the Minister of Vision. We need serious people, responsible people, in ministerial positions, who will understand their role as the defence of the common good, the defence of the environment, the defence of public interest, not as an opportunity to get greased with fines from the capital tables.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Gradually, Moica the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Chairman. Please warn my colleague Kordish, who said the government of Janez Janša is a criminal association. That's what it sounded like, and that's unacceptable. That entrepreneurs can be just as offended today when they hear that they are capital. By the way, they contribute to allowing him to say what he says, or else it seems to me — and others can judge for themselves — nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your proposal. I really urge you, fellow Members and fellow Members, to respect Article 8 of the Code of Ethics, which says that we must be respectful, patient, non-discriminatory and not offensive. And I am indeed reminding everyone, including some of the previous ones who have discussed before Mr Kordish, whom I think they have violated. Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you, Chairman. I propose that you reject the preliminary motion because I really do not think it is in place for a variety of reasons. First of all, I wasn't talking about any general entrepreneurs or anything. I have been very specific about Mr Petan, who is just a typical example of a predatory capitalist – in black and white. Even such a case as Minister Vizjak says, not that I believe him, but he says he had to defend state property against his hunters and his appetites.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u86	Dear Member, I have identified myself with regard to the procedural proposal made by Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, which refers to everything. Procedurally, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u87	Mr President, I suggest you follow the rules of procedure. What Mojca Škrnjar was doing was not very procedural. In the middle, she threw up a little bit, involved a little mini-discussion. Let's stick to it and have the same standards for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Madam Members, I am asking you to read Article 8 of this Code, and that is what I am talking about. That's what I was talking about. Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to highlight some of the key answers to this unfounded interpretation, which was actually based on the illegal hearings of a private conversation and which in fact exposes all the misery of the Taiwanese intervention of one of the Slovenian influences of Bojan Petan, who, by the way, has his roots in the LDS or in the left political option. He was also president of LDS in Brežica. He was, of course, also privileged on these political roots later, throughout the LDS governments. And so we looked forward to 2006 and 2007, when he wanted to take over Terme Catež, and he succeeded. As Minister of Economy of the time, I wanted to take a covert picture of my intervention to prevent the harmful takeover of Terme Catež, which took place in several steps. I would like to enlighten them once again to see how this happened at the time and how there was a significant damage to state property in the end. As early as 2006, there was a transfer or sale of shares of Maxime d.d., which were owned by Terme Catež in 10%, from the so-called State Camp to the Factor Bank, now we all know – a Taiwanese bank; and this share later landed in the hands of Bojan Petan. This is said to be the case, the state managers who were paid from the country sold the state's private share in a non-transparent manner and thus allowed Petan to acquire a controlling stake in the company and to start a harmful takeover. He made the acquisition in a way that he bought the money from Terme Catež, just what the Member said was criminal and illegal, that with money Terme Catež bought the shares of Term Catež from subsidiaries – Marine Portorož and Tourism Company Portorož. That is why he spent EUR 30 million of his company, which, while still in good condition, had 12 to 13 million annual EBITDA, which is a free cash flow; that is, he pressured the financial fate of this company for decades to come. As a result, the debt of this company increased and the relationship between the debt of the company and the EBITDA or the net cash flow deteriorated so that the company is no longer in a position to settle its liabilities. Thus, at the time of the establishment of the bad bank, together with the State publication, this company landed at a bad bank and the state was injured by about €39 million, as it was transferred for €80 million of claims to Terme Čatež and the DZS Group, which could then be followed by one buyer, who is not known, this is the famous fund, which was then purchased after €40 million, which means that the country was already damaged by €39 million in the transfer of these claims which Terme Catež, the DZS Group, was no longer able to settle. That the measure was even greater followed by a takeover in 2008. In view of the purchase of these shares and the withdrawal of these shares, the State Publishing Company, as the owner of Terme Catež, together with the company Delo, had to publish the acquisition. They didn't publish the takeover for the money, as usual. You have to give a bank guarantee on the takeover offer to buy transparent everything that's to be offered in the takeover, and you pay for it. No, they offered to take over the worthless bonds of the company Delo for sale, which are not yet paid today, not today. At the time, the acquisition was EUR 310 per share. And one of the shareholders will decide to take such a stand that instead of a company that was still valid at the time; at the time, we did not know what fate would be, but I suspected it would happen, and hoped it would not, but it did. In 2008, this company was still relatively fine and no one accepted such a takeover offer that it would acquire the company's worthless bonds for shares of a relatively solid company. And of course, this was accepted only by the satellites of Terme Catež, so to speak, you under the wing which are still; and thus the takeover was completed. In order not to put an end to the matter, the Commission has also investigated the suspicious purchases of Dela bonds and the DZS by the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund for the supervision of public finances of this National Assembly. This was also the subject of criminal proceedings and it is more obvious that the then Director of Žnidaršič Planinc, who was then Director or Director of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of NEK, had, of course, to be in criminal proceedings for all of this. At the end of the day, it comes today – that's what Mr Kordish said, so I called – one paper that I don't know, nobody knows who shot him, I don't know. But it makes absolutely no sense, and I'll tell you why. By the way, this paper has nothing to do with Visjak, it is not mentioned, it was not sent by Visjak, it is not given to Visjak, it is not mentioned by Visijak, but it was sent by the State Publications allegedly to the Capital Society of the Republic of Slovenia in November 2007 with an offer that the State Publications is prepared to purchase the shares of Terme Catež for a good 40 million, 41.4 million. Look, it's pure nonsense, and I'll tell you why. Slovenia's public record of transport in 2007 amounted to EUR 50 million. The state publication had an EIB of €3 million in 2007 and would be purchasing assets of €40 million. At the same time, it already had debts or loans of EUR 100 million. If anyone were serious, they probably didn't take it seriously in Kadu, because it's crazy; because if this, then the takeover should also be announced and the same DHS should also buy out all the other small shareholders at that price. [[…]] This is said to be about 50% of the capital not controlled by the DZS, which means that the DZS should have around EUR 200 million at its disposal. A company with 100 million Euros of credit with 50 million Euros of income and 40 million Euros of employees' salaries. If you take this seriously and take such stupid, sick records on 24ur.com and do not know where else – Visjak damaged 35 million This offer is fake, it is ridiculous and actually has nothing to do with reality. [[…]] And it appeared, amazingly, on the day of the interpellation from these media, who were still beating on me and on the government from all the canons. Respectfully, what is the epilogue of this story or of these hearings? The epilogue is that at the time I tried to dissuade Bojan Petan from this damaging, stupid move to buy the shares of Terme Catež with money Terme Catež. This has proved fatal today when the company is on its knees, when it has very poor financial figures and results, and when it is actually a fully-valued state property. In this business, the country lost about €40 million of ownership in the Termes of Catež itself, because today its – today the country still owns – share is worth almost zero euros. The state was injured because it helped to remedy the DZS's poor claims of €39 million. The State is injured because it has not received one of the dividends from this investment in 15 years, in fact, the investment is completely devalued. And what's for the surface? Mr. Petan said that taxes should be paid to the state. Al Capone didn't go to jail because he killed people, but because he didn't pay taxes. Mr Petan, who sat in the supervisory board of Marine Portorož in 2008, the annual report of Marine Portorož for 2008 would suggest that Marina Portorož would have to pay a capital gain and a tax amount of around EUR 3 million, similar to that of the Tourism Company Portorož – EUR 2 million due to the capital gains made in Termaž Termam Catež. Mr. Petan didn't pay that tax. He didn't pay, nobody was responsible, and nobody's answering today. It is said that Al Capone paid taxes, but Mr. Petan did not pay taxes. And now I have to defend myself here when I tried to turn this tycoon away from this job. And you're giving me corruption! What kind of corruption? What am I supposed to get out of this? I fought for the interests of the state. If this is corruption, of course I accept it. If I fought to prevent damage to state property, which unfortunately proved to be the case, I'm proving it through the response to interpolation. And Mr Petan is in criminal proceedings because of these transactions. See the fragment, the house investigations were in 2014; today in 2021, 7 years after that, the competent authorities were able to start the trial. This has been reported, from the media, January or February at the beginning of this year, some proceedings have been initiated in the Court of Justice in Cyprus. [[…]] Criminal proceedings against Petan are also ongoing in Bosnia because he also had some suspicious jobs there. And nothing – the gentleman still sits in the leading position, receives an excellent high salary, three to four times the size of you Members or I Minister, and laughs at us. And through the media, which in the ownership structure, such as Dnevnik, the Sunday Diary, and the media of friends within Martin Gosdowka speaks and spreads the truth across Slovenia, so-called truth with such data as this today's publication on Uncensored. By the way, I'm not going to repeat what I've already said about this portal, its ownership, and the conflict of interests of Primorman, who heats up his chair and writes nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no bad conscience in what I did 14 years ago. I only have a bad conscience for this hard-core beige rumor, which was inappropriate for cities, which I have apologized for several times. No, and I never told anyone that paying taxes is stupid and that I would deter him from paying taxes. I have always – and I underline in this reply – argued in an argument that it is foolish to take over and harm the company, to take over the company with the money of the same company, what has happened and what we now have the evident consequences. In response to the interpolation, I also discuss in detail the reasons for the Water Act and the referendum on the Water Act. I am convinced that many of the measures carried out by the Ministry in this mandate in terms of new investments in water pipelines and waste water treatment systems, as well as in the new water protection regulations that protect water resources, have been launched throughout Slovenia, including in Slovenia, to provide drinking water. I have done a great deal more, with my fellow workers at the ministry of course, for constitutional rights and the right to healthy drinking water, than this is to be attributed to the fallen Water Act, which in fact has nothing to do with it. That was abused because it was one of those mainstreams back then. It's amazing, the sociologists are going to study this, the effect of this roller coaster is a bunch of social networks. And in the end, those who believed that marriage was good didn't want to come forward, because it would have been too much of a fall for them. I heard from a lot of people later, then. When we speak of violations of the principles and provisions of the Aarhus Convention as well as of the Environmental Protection Act on public participation, we have not based on one single argument on where we violated article 34a of the Law on the Protection of the Environment in the Waters Act. The public debate on this law was for 14 days, a law which essentially had only two substantive provisions. One was debirocratisation of interference with coastal and water lands under the same conditions; nothing changed in the conditions of intervention. Seizures to coastal and water lands were not allowed, and even after the amendment of the law they would not be allowed — for interventions that would in any way impair flood or erosion security, which would in any way worsen the good condition of the waters, which would in any way be contrary to the water management plan or with particular use of water. It was only such projects that met these conditions, which the profession must determine. And these are very few in the past period, in fact, on the fingers of one hand I could count them, but I think that in this mandate we have released one such one to the Government after the existing regulation. So it wasn't any interference with healthy drinking water. This has been misused for some kind of privatisation to disable access and so on. It is quite funny that the Social Democrats are telling me and asking me to resign because of the falling referendum, and their ministers have never done so in the past, and their laws fell by a majority at the referendum. Once again, the law of Dr. Council of Bohinca, the Minister of the Interior, the so-called technical law on deleted persons, fell by a majority of 95%. 95% of people rejected this law. Has the minister been intertwined? Has he resigned? Now the Social Democrats are calling on me to be sufficient reason for my dismissal or my resignation. Their minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, lost three referendums in a row. Did he give up? No, he was awarded in one year, in three months. He was rewarded for becoming rector of the University of Ljubljana; he lost 85-80% of the referendum on the so-called small work, a referendum on job prevention and employment on the black and unfortunate pension reform he had prepared. These were actually three referendums with about 75% rejection. Has Mr. Ivan Svetlik resigned? Is that the kind of circus you started at the time? Dear Members and Members, particularly from the SD, I would expect you to have the same vats for the same things, not doubles. And here you have double vats. You expect me to do something, and you never expected your minister to do so, even though the ministers have had worse embarrassment when we are talking about the referendums and the outcome of these referendums. By the way, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, who commented – you also often refer to my comments at the referendum – obviously people are not mature for reforms, they are not mature. That's what he was saying. You can go to Google and see it all. I just want to say, let's have the same vat in this temple of democracy for these things. Even with regard to the award of the Termam Catež concession. Now I went to the Geological Survey website and took another look at the professional backgrounds. In the past, there has been an expert assessment of how much we can draw from this aquifer, and I can list them. But I would advise everyone to look at them. Up to two to three times the size of today, so this recommended number of the Geological Survey is 80 liters per second, or good 2.5 million cubic meters per year, determined by a measure of precaution. And Terme Catež did not get any higher concessions than they had before, and they have a concession that does not threaten the aquifer. In contrast to all of this, they now have a final concessional relationship to monitor the quantities of water pumped, to monitor the temperature of the water, to take care of the thermal use of the water and, therefore, not to pollute thermally the watercourses with too much hot water that have been flushed into streams and rivers for years. Here you will indeed find it very difficult to base your findings on any deviation from the rules of the game regarding the award of concessions. I would also like to touch further on what seems to me to be important when you decide or decide to release me then below. I think we still need to look a little bit at the achievements of this government or ministry in this mandate, and I would actually count 17 such points. The first point is that, since March 2020, we have confirmed more than 50 projects under the Agreement for the Development of Regions for Investments in Improving Water Supply, Waste Water Disposal and Cleanup Systems and providing flood safety totalling €400 million. Most of these projects are already under way and will practically all have to be completed by 2023. Significant progress. By March 2020, not one project has been approved, respected, in your so-called KUL Sharčev government, and not one has been able to confirm; now we have succeeded 50 in a year and a half. Then we have water protection regulations, which are extremely important regulations for the protection of drinking water sources. We confirmed five regulations during this period of one year, with only one water protection regulation being adopted from 2017 to 2019, while at the same time 20 of them are in preparation. We have substantially increased the funds to maintain the watercourses. Until the arrival of this government, it has been designed annually to maintain watercourses between 12 million and 14 million, and we have increased this figure to 50 million, 49 million this year and in the next two years that much. And we will eliminate the delays in the state of the watercourses that have occurred decades before this government's appearance. After sixteen years, the Sava energy concession contract is signed at the Central Sava section, which provides an opportunity to build additional carbon-free resources, renewables in electricity production, which is particularly important in the light of the green agreement. In the area of the environment, the adoption of a new environmental law allows for comprehensive regulation, waste management, and we will also take into account suggestions regarding the introduction of the bailout system. The circular economy measures are being introduced, which means that waste or more waste can also become a product under a specific procedure. In order to amend the Regulation on environmental interventions, we have reduced the caseload in relation to previous procedures and the environmental impact assessment by 30%, thus reducing red tape and without affecting the environment in any way. We have adopted a resolution on the long-term carbon strategy by 2050 with the aim of making Slovenia net carbon neutral until this year, and we have devoted significantly more resources to the rehabilitation of the beaches. The projects are implemented in 78 municipalities, with 154 beaches, worth 25.5 million. In the area of housing construction, remember, a respected coalition and opposition, in five years, until 2019, 340 public rental apartments were built. By adopting the Housing Law, we or we will provide an additional 2 000 360 additional rental apartments from 2020 to 2023. A few thousand more apartments to be built by municipal housing funds need to be added. It is very real that by 2025 we will have an additional 5,000 public rental apartments in the Republic of Slovenia. In office before, as I said, a five-year-old, 340. With regard to spatial planning and construction, we have adopted and approved in Parliament the Law on the regulation of premises and the Law on the Construction of Buildings, which will significantly relieve and speed up the procedures for the preparation of spatial implementing acts and the acquisition of building permits. An intervention law has also been adopted to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments, by which we issued more than 30 building permits for key state projects and accelerated development in that country. I'd only touch two or three more points. One is also an international activity. As part of the Slovenian Presidency, an agreement was reached between the European Council and the European Parliament on the amendment of the Aarhus Convention, aimed at ensuring access to information on public participation in decision-making and access to legal protection in environmental matters. This worked for the Slovenian Presidency. I would also like to mention the agreed negotiating points within the framework of the European Presidency. Europe's negotiating points that we could negotiate at this international climate conference in Glasgow on the objectives and measures for the future. We have also seen the European Commission's public praise, in particular its Vice-President Timmermans, that Europe has practically for the first time had a single negotiating basis and that we have been able to negotiate in these global negotiations. Because we were not able to reconcile at the level of seven-twenty at any point in time. And two other things when you talk so much about everything being wrong at the Ministry. This year we obtained the ISO 9001 certificate. Two important decentralisation measures have also been implemented. The headquarters of the Directorate for Water from Ljubljana to Celje and the headquarters of the Agency for Radioactive Wastes from Ljubljana to Krk have been moved. I gave you the facts, the things that happened, the things that are acts. I'm a man, excuse me, a man of action. Perhaps the robustness of expressing work problems and I still have them today because of this, but I would be very pleased to see those who create, do much more in the Republic of Slovenia; and much less those who produce beautiful flowers, which never, ever, ever receive, flourish, and from which there is nothing, except bad will, when those who possess them realize that they have been guilty of faith. I am today in favour of the words of 14 years ago when I wanted to turn Tycoon Petan away from the harmful acquisition and damage of state property in 2007. I didn't make it. The results are on the table. The numbers are on the table. Just as a doctor can read your medical condition from the tests he makes, any economist can understand the health status of the DZS group from the data published publicly and available in the company’s annual reports. Anyone who looks at this will see that it's a disaster, the whole group. And that the Lord, who is still in control, has done great harm to this country and has been greasyly rewarded for it. Look at the online posts made by research journalists. Some are talking about 500,000 euros a year's salary, some even approaching a million. It employs all its family members, through various boards of subsidiaries and so on. That the hat is still full, these same people are selling the truth – to you, to us and to the Slovenian public – through their so-called own media. The Bojan Petan Empire also includes the Diary and some other media. But to his colleagues a la Martina Gospoda also controls the radio sphere Journal 24, Uncensored, which today muds me as much as it can, makes stupid impressions that I can simply reject, I am one already today. And this is just the work of those who want to maintain the privileges that I am going to give them with these acts of my own. Ladies and gentlemen, let's let them count the actions; of course, words are important, but much less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Replica, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr. Vizjak, you're telling me that we're doing a circus around a lost referendum on the Waters Act and why we didn't do the same circus around Minister Svetlik when he lost his referendum on small work and some other things. But Mr. Vizjak, for the first time, the Left was not even in the National Assembly at the time. Secondly, members of the Left have in many cases worked in activist organisations on the ground, including those who fought against the Small Work Act. We went to the referendum and surrounded “against” the implementation of the Small Work Act and also demanded the resignation of Minister Svetlik. As far as we're concerned in Levica, we have exactly the same vats for everyone. But I do not understand how you then see the evacuation of then Minister Svetlik to the University of Ljubljana; you have evacuated to state energy after your ministry. And you are still acting, as it turns out, as a de facto lobbyist of this energy, some purely partial interests within this energy. You see, Mr Vizjak, with former Minister Svetlik, you obviously have more than one thing in common. And if I continue, why are we so involved in an affair of stupid taxes, even though it's a topic from 14 years ago? Since the same logic as it was shown during the first Janša government, it is also evident in the third Janša government, but only in the second field. I do not understand how we are all now guilty of capitalist Petan, Mr Vizjak says – the tycoon Petan, but if it was the first Janša government that created the tycoons in the first place. You, Mr Vizjak, have done Toběžovo, you are responsible for Kordez, for Shroth, for Zidar and you, Mr Vizjak, are also responsible for Mr Petan. All of these people would not have been if it had not been in the way we know them in the public today if the first Yanšev government had not written legislation in such a way that the managers could have taken ownership of the companies by securing their cheap loans with the shares of the acquiring companies. And more than that, not only is this the collective responsibility of the first Janša government that made the tycoons; the laws that have changed and written in this area were your laws, Mr Vizjak, in the field of economy. You were then the Minister of Economy, and this was the second wave of privatisation, how to channel as much of our common industrial wealth into private hands as possible. Today, when much of the economy is already privatised, when much of the economy is already in stock; you are doing exactly the same, except that the common good that you put in private pockets, in the field of water protection, in the field of thermal water protection, construction legislation and so on. Cut short into nature and the environment. Why? Just to make money in a privileged handful.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much. First of all, the representative of the proposaler, Nataš Sukič, shall have the floor. And behind her, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u93	The minister may have a head start, too. I don't care. But I can respond in that spirit. Dear Minister, you have already stated more than an argument today if the former ministers did not resign when they lost the referendums, I do not need to resign either. Excuse me, Minister, are you a clone of the previous ministers?Oh, my God! Here we talk about the issue of integrity, which is a term that applies to all ministers of this world, not only in Slovenia, everywhere. From this address, because I don't know why you are even comparing yourself with former ministers, if they have acted renouncingly, there is no need for you to do the same; it is about what standards are being set in politics. We in Levica want higher standards than we want to say – they used to do it, and so can we, they didn't give up, so can we. Forgive me, this is not an argument for me. [[…]] And, as Miha said, the Left was not yet in Parliament, if it were, believe me, that it would require the resignation of the then ministers, just as today we claim yours. The belief that the government has an obligation to follow at least minimum ethical and integrity standards is not my arbitral opinion or the ideas of a random citizen or a citizen, but is based on the Ethics Code of Officials in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ministries, respected. There's a lot of ground in this code. Why should a minister, in this case you or anyone else, step aside immediately, even before interpolation if, as an official in the performance of the function and public performance, he does not contribute to strengthening the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, nor does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the authority in which he performs the function, which is all required by this code because he does not enjoy enough confidence in the public, let's say. This is a sufficient reason and the referendum said that you do not enjoy confidence, it was a plebiscite decision, respected, it was a large number of citizens and citizens who denied you this trust plebiscite. And the ethical principles of the functioning of politicians must be the norm, respected, not eloquent – sometimes they are not, so neither will we. And this is what I've been telling you for the third time today, please stop using this as an argument, because this is not an argument. If you have integrity, you have integrity. It doesn't matter whether Bohinc had it or Svetlik didn't have it. You are Mr Andrej Vizjak, you are not Svetlik and you are not Bohinc. I hope so. But if you're their clone in that sense, then it's all in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The word is given by Minister Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u95	Yeah, just for a little while. Of course, I have seen this duality of the SD, by the way, Matjaž Han as the leader of the parliamentary group spoke recently, I think he said this week about the media that I have already experienced interpretation with the outcome of the referendum. Of course, he forgot how many times his ministers had been interpelling with the outcome of the referendum; and he used double vats for my case and for his ministers because they were all SD ministers. As for the repetition of this, I think you too need to ask yourself a few questions, Members, or ministers are responsible for the proposals adopted in this national assembly. We have a division of power, we have adopted decisions by the National Assembly and Members can make any proposal, a stupid proposal that we produce, let's say it was not, in this case it was not, in this case a good proposal, which I am still substantively behind, and I am also giving it a long and broad explanation in response to what happens to this proposal. This is your duty, so you are the legislative branch of power. As for Mr. Kordez and his employment. I am proud to be employed in Slovenian energy, because this is also my profession – Master of Electrical Engineering. Slovenian energy is facing severe challenges so that we will not be in the dark tomorrow, because our consumption is increasing, we need to restructure it into green, carbon-free. And it will take a lot of effort and work and I am proud that, if God gives happiness, I will be able to return to Slovenian energy after carrying out this function. But I didn't become rector of the biggest Slovenian university. Getting a job as a head of one service in a medium-sized company or becoming a rector is out of the question, at least as far as my comparisons or my vision are concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Bandelli has the floor. Get Robert Polnar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Finally, after six hours, we got the rest of the word. Mainly, Minister Visjak, I would only remind you that today you are at the interpretation here, not Bojan Petan. Whatever he left long and whatever he did, if he knew criminally, as you say, as you described it widely, it's none of our business and it's not even a matter of this interpretation, I think by myself here. Let Furs and other law enforcement agencies deal with what we now have to say, what happened and what didn't happen. In your response to the interpolation, you have cited a bunch of things that I think have nothing to do with what we're dealing with today. But it was a good thing that you quoted tycoon acquisitions. This was interesting to me, here I thank you, Minister Vizjak, for once again confirming that the biggest acquisitions, the tycoon takeovers of Boskot Shrota and Marine Portorož's all that you mentioned along with them were happening right during the first right-wing government of Janez Janša. That's when it happened. Let us also give a clear picture, not just wrapped information to the extent of what is worth it. Now let's go to point one. Personally, let's be clear, Minister, absolutely not to think otherwise, I have absolutely nothing against you. Far from being personal, which is that there will be no mistake. But I'm also sure I'm sure that you're not the real director of all these shows here, either, in fact, for what's going on today, when this interpolation is happening. I'm sure there are other people in the background, more important, who hold you in their hands. I'm almost sure. What we've been seeing lately is being produced and, above all, the coalition, the affair after the affair, weekly, even now two per week, so we've already forgotten those affairs that were last week. You're talking about your good purpose, you're not guilty of anything in fact, everything it is. Here I doubt that you are doing everything so innocently by protecting three times more expensive, incomprehensible Suhorac project. You know it doesn't drink water if we're talking about water. The minister's going out. I don't know if it's right for the Minister to go out when he's in interpeel, I don't know, but that's the way it is. So is respect for us Members, but good. Minister, I can't even touch the point of stupid taxes because it was just a drop over the edge, it was nothing else, it was just a drop over the edge. I'll tell you something, Minister. I literally laughed when I heard the different stages of your statements. Different daily stages that were taking place in the face of these stupid taxes. It was interesting. I said I was laughing, but I think citizens should practically cry at what's going on, what they see. At first you categorically denied, categorically, the first moment you were interviewed, you said - no, I never said that. Then you said she was some kind of glue. And then you kept your mouth shut. Two days later, you said it was a video, maybe it was a video, maybe it was a war. From categorical denial was a war – perhaps the recording is real. In the end, you said that because I didn't mean anything by it, because I wanted to do good to the country, I wanted to protect the country. In the end, what happened? And in the end, you apologized for what you said. If we give together all these five stages that you've put through, how man will believe you now. You are a good narrator, you are extremely good at convincing people, you are probably also an expert in your field – and I think you are – and that is also why I appreciate you in terms of expertise. But if we're looking at the whole course of your statements, it's clear that from the beginning you've been deceiving the public, lying, I don't know, say it the way you want, because starting with one phrase and ending with another to apologize, it means that you know for yourself that it is. But even if she is a sticky woman, what a bond she has, if she is a sticky woman; for she is made out of the sentences which you have spoken. You said you mentioned them, not here. So whether you want it or not, the striker is literally real. And not to be denied by those who did so, nor by those who examined it. And I'd like to know who these experts are who examined. Probably your experts, your expert teams, the kind of services that are now being put up by the SDS. We know that. I would almost just because of what you mentioned here, if you loved Slovenia and the citizens, I would do myself one question of conscience and take responsibility and give up. From ethical behavior. But we know you won't. None, but neither will you. You are aware of the message you have given to the citizens. This is most important of all, that you are aware of what the citizens thought. 98% of citizens pay taxes here, pay taxes fairly, regularly, everything. And then when he hears from a government minister that taxes are stupid and that it's stupid to pay them, yes, and a man takes a step back and says, "Well, what are we doing in this country, but it's only right that we're even here if that person says that. You should've walked away from this by yourself. You said you were protecting the interests of the state. What kind of interest? Telling others it's stupid to pay taxes?Oh, my God! I don't think there's any interest in the state here. You spoke practically in that sense. You even said taxes were stupid and you're throwing money away, that was what your statement said. And that was your message. We hear later, you've already shown that document five times today in your hands, which you always say is what it is. You know, the media, the media up or the media down, you're always saying that those media are fake and all that is. You have 44 media under your wing, God help what they write. And that's really fake news. But we've gotten used to it by ignoring these things. But you must know something that people on every news coming out, something is true, if not another, and they believe. People are a lot of times, especially on one political side, I am sure – more on the right-hand side, listening even to your Nova24TV, who believe everything you say on that TV, absolutely everything, and people who are really naive and believe, are saying that the other side believes something. And as you say, the truth is what it is, it can be that the truth is also what they have published. Because it's not a simple matter. If it is this document and what they offered you. I think that 350 euros were offered per share, 350 per share, that's about 41 million for redemption, you literally damaged for 36 million countries because you didn't buy that job. Yes, they've come to see you. You know what's most eccentric? That business was coming to work in your offices back then, these people were coming to the government offices. Today is more modern. Today they come directly to the SDS Group to replace directors and to do business, directly, they have here a leader of the parliamentary group, who will be and who will not be the new boss, who will drive the business forward. And I'm not going to say it's a mafia state, but let's just say we're close enough to make a quick deal. You understand. I didn't say, yesterday the Pigeon said it very well, and it was nice, and it also spelled out exactly what was going on. Only if you are. Your most interesting statement was here, and what I've seen from those I say is what I read. [[…]] If you deny this thing here, you deny it, we read people; and we read these truths probably. That you told Mr. Petan not to complain that he should not press charges, because otherwise you will be suing in court. And a judge who wouldn't listen to you wouldn't listen to you, you'd break his balls. That's the argument of the broken eggs, that was the argument. We've only heard "the judge's balls are broken". Why did this expression come about? That's what it says in there. You will be able to demente, and I also hope that you will demente, say yours, but we are here at the interpretation that we want and require certain answers from you. You've said the same thing three and a half hours ago. We've heard it five times. You probably have one more hour and you'll say the exact same thing twice in half an hour because you think it's going to go that way. You know, for a judge to break his balls, that's bad. Those are your words, you don't have to deny it here because you hear it in there, unless you've made such a sound that it's not really you. I don't believe it. You know what the worst part is? Since you didn't say it empty, you said it with some conviction. And even worse, isn't it strange when you're on the right, on the hard right side, if you say so, you've been convincing for 30 years that the whole judiciary is red, foreign, because you're always saying this, it's obvious that with that expression you know exactly that it hasn't been so since 2006 and 2007. Why is it going here? Because if you have so much power that you can influence the court, it means that all your statements that have been made so far are, in my opinion, little to think about, what is true and what is not true. I let this argument stand, you've already answered before, but now I'm interested in something else. You said you were here, you're only defending yourself, given what happened 14 years ago. Far from it, Minister. It's full of things that you've done now at this time, which are also important. You may dement them, but you will see that it is not true, but there are such things that remain in the minds of the citizens as to what is going on here. There's some sort of a retreat, there's some kind of information coming out, there's something else here. I was ripped because I needed two lights to go a mile away – your media. Your media ripped me up and came home to me. The information that is public, I also read it, not in your newspaper, but in another newspaper, which I think is also credible, quite strong. You bought 120 thousand Euros of Petrol stock. You know, I'm an entrepreneur, I know what's going on. One rule is that there are rules — professional and trained investors — that teach you that you can practically buy so many shares that if you lose, you may not have some personal bankruptcy. And there is one formula that is about as much as one can invest in shares. Because you invest in shares if you're not a professional who works on the stock exchange and you're an intermediary and stuff from other capital. If you have your capital, about 50% of your liquid personal capital, about, that's the formula. So if you've invested 120 thousand euros, we think you've had almost a quarter of a million euros of your liquid; because I don't care about that, that's your business. People can ask themselves where that money came from. That's the first thing we ask ourselves. The other thing that's more important, if you've made a loan for it, and then you're a speculator, then you've speculated on the loan, knowing what's going to happen, because then a few days later the shares went up. And you've already earned 30,000 euros on this – every time, every time. There may also be a conflict of interest here. This is a matter for the KPK, too. So you are at this point in time when you bought the shares, and our stock market, which is so small and where it's so moving everything together quickly, where two operations change by 2%, 3% immediately swinging up and down. You've given one sign to investors and they've been wondering – wait a minute, if this guy who's on the government is buying this stock for that kind of money, it means something's going to happen here. Look at the fraction, accidentally one week then goes up, hard up the stock value. I don't care about the source of the property, that's your business, because you probably reported all this KPK. I just want to remind you that we have already had one case of EUR 400,000 of assets that yours, which has not yet been explained by today, but I don't care, is not my problem. [[…]] Now we're going to the Water Act. This law allowed for the private interest of certain interested parties here. That's it. You said the marriage was fine, it wasn't right what it was. This is not true because Slovenia would not jump into the air if everything was okay. You've practically ignored all the written principles. That's it. Both international legal acts and domestic laws, consciously, Minister, consciously. I'm not gonna say you didn't say anything, that he never knew anything about anything, because that's why all this happened. You have practically violated the Constitution because the Ombudsman has also found that to be true. You have violated the Constitution. For all the things I'm saying here, you're here. Not just for those 14 years ago. Do you realize that? Because you only spoke from Petan. I don't care about Petan. If he's made a mistake, and in most cases he's persecuted by those who are paid for it, that's not why we're here. [[Incomprehensible]] I'm not interested in Petan at all. Now it's clear, Minister, for that Water Act of yours, it was a total disaster. Pure fiasco. Even there, a simple minister would say - I leave because they don't believe in me, they see what it is; and I would go. It's the third time I've had to step down if there's any truth here. I'm going to finish with the waste packaging, because this is where the tonage problem started, and this is where this packaging opens up and all this stuff that it is. There has been a strong increase in the amount of waste from the cash register, if we say so in our own language, that the people watching us understand. Because we're talking about this waste pack and stuff, but a lot of people don't even know what it is. More of this packaging appeared than what had been cashed. It was only your fault, Minister, that it was your fault because you didn't issue permits at a certain time. And because you didn't issue permits, they also piled up a bunch of things and everything that needed to be done. And now you wanted to solve this thing quickly. And what did you want fast? To date, many companies have been working on this and there has been competition, which is healthy competition. And if there's a lot of companies that work in competition, they say, it's right. It's not like you did at the fuel plant. What did you do with the fuel? You have opened the market, the market and the three suppliers in Slovenia have agreed on the cartel and now we have 1 euro and half oil, 50% more than two years ago. 50% more because you opened the market. We had a cartel deal. And not to say that it's only a 5% margin, there are other new prices in taxes that can be played in taxes. She did Austria, she did Italy, they did in France, in Spain, only Slovenia can't because it's good because you've put so much money out that you need other money inside. Who? All in the pockets of the citizens. That's all you know, okay. Now you're talking about these wastes, if I mention it like that, with one move you'd solve the situation and give a monopoly to Slopak. That's a fact. Accidental director of Slopak is Boštian Aver, SDS, by chance. He's SDS too. And give him a monopoly, Slopak. He doesn't have his own transportation, he doesn't have any trucks, he doesn't have anything; but he's important, he's got to get it. You understand. Don't talk to me about it. I sold until 10 years ago, I know everything about the municipal world in Slovenia, the minister, everything. More than you. And I see exactly what the competitors were, what companies were doing, why they were working. Why you made an investment of 120 million CERODs in Ljubljana – a non-profit, which does not work, because the capacity is not large enough, it would be better to make it smaller, but you know why it was done there too. We're not gonna talk about this. And we know for ourselves that in waste, there are the biggest mafia deals. That's world-renowned. Italy is doing this every day in Mafia business. Here again you want to put the SDS hand on waste and on what needs to be done. You laugh, but I tell you what it is. Yeah, you see, I see it. [[advertising from the hall]] I think that's it, you know. Now I'm gonna finish up and talk a little bit more of support to stay a few more minutes. You've already written in the coalition that the ministers don't shake hands, and that's what we've seen -- all of them so far. So, whatever you can do, the criminal acts that we found out what they were, the accusations, the alleged things, the KPK charges, integrity with the lowest level, without ethics, morality, inhumane and regimeal behaviour on the streets, because this is happening, we will deal with this on Monday, which is, of course, a humiliating educational excellence – I will not speak here, and about the children, everything was fine, it was all right, they all went by, without any problems, as if there was nothing. One had to resign because of one sentence, and one of them had lawsuits, criminal matters, and I don't know what all of them were – and holding onto the chair, you know, and what it is. We have understood precisely earlier Mrs Ivo Dimic, who spoke about this – our party's support is no longer, that is simply said. X will be pressed here, you understand. And that's the second one, and that's all they're gonna do, because that's what Tonin said, and you're gonna wash your hands of Pilate – NSI, you're gonna wash your Pilates. And the caravan then normally, the caravan goes on, there are white boys on the posters that show how they are, they've got power in their head and everything. Now I only hope for the judgmental thinking of others who are not in the coalition, I will never understand the SNS, but I don't care. Now we also have some Members who have become disconnected, and I haven't even understood the status he is yet. SMC – if it exists, does it not exist if it is specific if the una has gone to the New Land is in the SMC?Oh, my God! I mean, a man doesn't understand anything anymore. Do you understand? This is no longer understood by anyone, nor does he know what she is going to vote, what she is going to vote on, what she is going to vote on. Mainly, I'll finish now, President. We in the Sab party precisely because of these cases, which are not 14 years ago, but they are all new, which are here, all six Members will confirm the interpretation, so far as you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go. And I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u99	I would like to answer the honourable Member a few questions. I like to debate with you here, too bad I only have so little time, or I would announce it more, I've announced the maximum time, because it's very interesting, what I hear. When you've linked the handling of the waste packaging to Slopak or any government decision, my decision and so on. I would ask you – in general treatment, there will also be a law on environmental and waste protection, even a chapter – to read in detail how it is intended – the producer's extended responsibility. All those who place products on the market and cause waste after the end of life or because of packaging will be organisationally and financially responsible for establishing a waste management system. Not the government, not the Ministry, not the Visac. The packaging manufacturers will need to establish one organisation to manage waste. And from where do you think the Visac will determine this and that this will be the Slopak. I mean, it's just fairy tales, and you really have to have the imagination to come up with stuff like that. The Ministry can't and won't do that. This must be done by those who are responsible, and these are those who place waste on the market. I hope that we will end this story today, because such tampering is really without a minimum basis. The second thing is, Your Honor, is my property. It is probably negligible compared to yours, but I have earned it and report it to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, in accordance with Slovenian legislation, they have insight into my assets, they have insight into the change of assets and I am aware of my responsibilities, including to me, my future and to my family, how to handle and buy shares or to be credited. But I've been doing this job for about 30 years, so it's not since yesterday that I had Petrol's shares long before I became a minister, actually I got them by replacing ownership certificates, then I became a Petrol shareholder. As for the accumulation of garbage and the imputation of unissued environmental permits; this is where the problem arose. Only half of the waste from public service providers’ warehouses was collected at the time environmental permits were issued. And that was essentially a problem because they didn't want to pick up what had accumulated there. We are fully addressing this problem in the Environmental Protection Act, and I would be very pleased that it would also be adopted within the mandate of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Replica, Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u101	Vice President, I would have procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u102	Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u103	I'd just like to ask your colleague Bandell to warn you. Interpellation started at 10 a.m. Earlier, the minister left the hall for two minutes, of course his colleague Bandelli used it — for all those accompanying the meeting of the National Assembly. Even our ministers, no matter what government they're in, they're just people. And perhaps after six hours of sitting and answering to Members and Members of Parliament, there is also a human need [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u104	My colleague, please limit yourself to the holding of the sitting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u105	Please warn your colleague Bandelli not to abuse it. The State Secretary of the Ministry is sitting through the hall, and even at the moment the Minister went out in two minutes, he wrote down the things Mr Bandelli said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u106	My colleague's underpants, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u107	I apologize and thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u108	You don't have to apologize, but don't do this. We continue the debate. The word is Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Today's interpolation aims to demonstrate the engagement of its applicants with two diverse phenomena and challenges in Slovenian society – denunciation and demagogy. The public is known to be many among the Slovenians, who are kindhearted and enthusiastic people who love to help their neighbor. If necessary, the whole world would be turned upside down just to do something good to a relative or a relative. And without any compensation, no cash, no material. This play has been in front of me ever since the 14-year-old church appeared in public. The video on which the then Minister for Economy and the current Minister for the Environment and Space expounds dissatisfaction is totally inappropriate to his position. Like any other church, this one smells. In the world of zoology, it is known who deals with the church — vultures. Can things from the animal world be applied to human relations, to human things? That's, you see, colleagues and colleagues, a big question. One of the most enlightened minds in human history Voltaire would point out on such a matter – Here you have given me a substance to think about. It is reasonable to assume that someone whose motive is pure honesty and justice put the recording in public. He waited 14 years. He combined the tapes in between. The process was neither fast nor simple, probably not cheap either, but our philanthrope was not sadly worked out. With all his heart and soul, he went to work only to make a noble, selfless and selfless denunciation of total filth so that he would scold the current Minister for Environment and Space. If Dante's inferno exists, then hell, then in his eighth circle and in the ninth corner of that eighth circle, there's definitely a slightly larger room. It's a room that Satan's unusually fond of. In this room, Satan feels at home, among his own. In this room, Satan does not have to pretend to be more sophisticated than he really is. On the door of this room is the inscription and it says on this inscription – Slovenian contemporaries and spreaders. That is about all that can be said about this hopeless sadness. As far as I could tell, the minister even apologized for some of his eloquent nonsense. It's embarrassing that our people don't know what to do with an apology. They do not appreciate the moral values and beauty of the apology, do not appreciate the hope that this act holds within them, and do not appreciate the promise that things will be better in the future. Any time anyone apologizes, we Slovenians frown, and we shake hands. The apology angers us almost even more than the reason for the apology being made. Leave it alone – many would call out maliciously if Willy Brandt fell to his knees in front of them. And that's what's most engaged, which is arrogant and shortsighted. Not only do Slovenians not like to accept apologies, but we do apologize very often. In general, we may even be the only completely sinless nation. All fairies and righteous men. None of us ever did anything shameful, but if we did, it had to do it because it was for the greater good of some kind, for the happier tomorrow of our children. Thus, all day long I could list certain weak ones who are integrity, integrity, righteousness, and virtue throughout their lives. Thus, the first part of interpolation is propaganda, denunciation propaganda, the propaganda of ostracism, reporting with a view to harming. It is about raising three qualities, raising silence, secrecy and insolence. In this connection we can also recall, for example, the then candidate for the Constitutional Court Judge – Svetlič. The protagonist of humility, who tried to prevent his election, was, not without pride, publicly boasting that he had saved the denunciation for a time when he would be able to use it effectively. And with us, it was accepted as a top virtue, instead of telling him to take a good hit and go to hell. The phenomenon of denunciation is certainly interesting, and it is not, historically speaking, something new. For example, with the cult of Paul Trofimovík Morozov, Soviet totalitarianism raised denunciation to the level of moral virtue. Pavel Morozov was a 13 - year - old Soviet pioneer who instilled in his father NKVD because his father opposed the agricultural collection. Father ended up in a concentration camp, of course, and little Morozov was later executed by his relatives. During the period of perestroika, it was found that the whole story was made up, but during the worst period of Stalin’s terror, and in the mid - 1930 ’ s until the beginning of World War II, this story still played its part and purpose. A few million people have lost their heads because of this. There is no news, ladies and gentlemen, that totalitarian regimes and their repressive apparatus are relying on denunciation, oscillation, to apply for damage. In both the Soviet Union and the Third Reich, denunciation has reached such a situation that it has caused serious problems and practical problems both to the NKVD and to the Gestapo. It has become impossible to distinguish false and overly demanding reports from those of minimum operational value. Since then, times have changed radically, but today in Slovenia, we are still talking about classical denunciation in parliamentary democracy in 2021. Today, there is no need for secret police, it is enough for denunciation to be sent to one of the revolvers' media and the Brecht water bikes to start their playful game. Of course, there is a moral dilemma here, why, for example, the denunciation of family members would be more terrifying than the denunciation of themselves, than the denunciation of anyone. If we agree to a different moral evaluation of the denunciation of family members in relation to the denunciation of someone else, this only strengthens the culture of innuendo, and in this case the family assumes the role of the guardian of false morality. Denunciation is so in Slovenia, obviously, not yet, but the station, even has a good perspective to become something completely normal and everyday; something to which it comes from opportunism or cowardice. But it only gets scary when we become the subject of her accusation. But we have to make something clear. Denunciation as the ultimate social virtue has only two predictable pathways – non-return and disappearance. Another constitutional element of interpolation is demagogy, false promises or lies to gain people's trust and political power, thus a lie in politics. I am talking about the Water Act in this regard. The Water Act was introduced and amended by only one article, which referred to attacks on water and coastal land. In addition, two paragraphs have been set out to discuss the construction of simple buildings and the construction of public buildings. This was significant, but it did not point out what was included in the law or in this article 37, and it spoke of the water consensus that the investor must obtain from the State authority, from the Water Directorate. There has never been any mention of those six limiting factors that the potential investor must obtain from the State authority from the Water Directorate. This is said to be unconsentable if its action makes water worse or prevents the provision of public services or restricts the existing specific use of water, or that its action is contrary to the water management objectives. There has never been any reference to the provision of the law that any intervention must be subject to the measures necessary in the water consensus to offset the impact of the intended intervention on the achievement of the water management objectives. It was only about how the State Authority of the Waters Directorate would issue water consent to anyone who would come in and have money, as if the State officials at the Waters Directorate were a single amorphous crowd of people, who could be overpowered by anyone who had money, as they wanted. And this was said by people who will take over the Ministry of Environment and Space in a very short time and work with these people will be their coworkers. And here, of course, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about something called a lie in politics. Not even the basic one was mentioned, who is the one who has an interference in the provision of drinking water in Slovenia. Fraud, fraud, deliberate deception, and naked lies — we have known this since the beginning of history as legitimate means of achieving political goals. Trueness was never damaged by political virtues. But lies in politics have always been seen as a means of protection. Those who reflect on these facts may wonder how little attention has been paid to lies in our political opinion. On the one hand, from the point of view of the essence of action, on the other hand, according to our ability to deny facts in thought and action. This active, even aggressive, lying ability is markedly different from our passive susceptibility to confusion, illusions, memory errors and anything that can be attributed to the failure of senses and thought organs. Acting is actually the work of politics. When we talk about lying, in particular about lying to those who act, we should not forget that lying to politics is not by accident, because of human sinfulness, so moral resentment will not be achieved to disappear. Conscientious lying has to do with the possible state of things. It is because of this possibility that fraud is so simple and eerie to a certain extent. With reason, there is never a conflict, for things could actually be the same as a liar claims. Lies seem to be often clearer and more attractive than reality, for a liar has a great advantage because he knows in advance what the audience would like to hear. It tailors its image to become acceptable to the public, and carefully makes sure that it is convincing enough, and the reality has an unpleasant quality to face with the unexpected, with what we have not been prepared for. And the reality in the case of the Water Act is that, colleagues and colleagues, the supply of drinking water is the original competence of local government to supply drinking water, which is extremely quality in Slovenia, municipalities exercise that drinking water is owned by municipalities, that distribution infrastructure is owned by companies that are either 100 % or the dominant majority of municipalities. And when we talk about drinking water supply, we need to know something. It's about technology. It's the pipelines. It's about the water supply. It's about the pumps. It's a decommissioning. It's about the chlorinated cells. And all of this is in the hands of the congregations. All of this is being restored and built up by congregations. So talking about anyone defending drinking water provokes only one question – Who, then? Who was he defending drinking water from? In front of the congregation? Or before your engagement? Or before being burdened with lies from social networks that provoke nothing but irrational hatred for everything? To the political system, to the medical science, now I see, to the media, to anything. And you see, that's what's unacceptable. I'm not naive. And I know that in every municipality of Slovenia there are monks and freaks who would be prepared for a good commission, let's say at least the distribution of drinking water into a private concession. But something completely different is how powerful these people have the political power to make such a decision. It's something completely different, whether we have a mayor in this country or a mayor or a municipal council willing to accept something like that. We don't! That's why it's about defending drinking water, asshole. Under normal circumstances, a liar would not be able to make such a reality known because there is no substitute for it, but we do not have normal circumstances. Whether the tissue of a liar's unreal remains so large, never, and even if you could help yourself with a computer, it won't be enough to cover this tissue with the reality of the reality. And the reality of the matter in this case is that the provision of drinking water is under the original jurisdiction of the congregations. Now imagine, colleagues and colleagues, a hypothetical situation. That we transfer the original competence of the local self-government to the hands of our normalizers. Normalizers who are at the same time apologists of savagery and who are also advocates of silence, secrecy and hypocrisy. Do any of you think that in such a case, we would still have the quality of our drinking water supply today? If anyone thinks so, think, but I tell him something else — think again. Although a liar can get lucky with any number of individual untruths, he will soon experience and soon realize that a lie does not work if you lie on principle. This could, however, be one of the teachings that we can learn from today’s interpretation and from the frightening power of confidence in its proponents in the power of lies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still in a complicated social, epidemiological and economic situation. In the confusion of this rolling and changing health and economic crisis, it is not only the theoretical consistency of its clarification that is lost, but also the clarity and credibility of the action and the search for a solution that is resilient. We are increasingly turning around in a vicious circle, and today's interpolation is proof of this, so it stands out as an imperative to stop the competition in this new Slovenian stupidarian symbolism. We're all against everything, and nobody's up for it anymore. Everyone would save themselves at the expense of others; at the same time, we are or are confused by the misunderstanding of changing interests and preferences and do not know whether what they want is even real. However, the central problem remains the political balance of economic contradictions and the political sustainability of economic exits from the crisis. The real public interest in all this confusion is that Slovenia has, irrespective of the composition of the current government and regardless of the political inclination of the government at all times, the political capacity to identify and consolidate public interest. In other words, it is said that political decision makers are working in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukich, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u111	Mr President, I have two procedural proposals. The first is that, in line with your recent practice, a colleague who spoke about Morozov and Dante’s inferno should also be interrupted. Then he took a good part of the time to insult people and spoke only of life, only of the interpretation not which he, by the way, renamed denunciation and so on. I'm asking you to put him in the same place as the rest of us. My second procedural proposal, however, was that, as 680,000 citizens and citizens publicly complained, they should have been told, that they were cretinists who wrote, liars who were talking about silence, secrecy, hypocrisy, and he interpreted his version of the Water Act here because he is obviously the owner of the universal truth, and all the rest of us are assholes who are spreading cretinism and lies; so to apologize to 680,000 citizens and citizens for this outrageous attack on what they said at the referendum. And you can't abuse a meeting of the National Assembly for interpretation and not denunciation, respected, to insult citizens and citizens, to rise above them as a great all-knowing great holder of the only saving truth. But everyone else is everything, just not some intelligent people who understand what it says in some marriage. And then here he sells his truth in a really discarded way. I demand, as he publicly attacked all these people, that he apologize publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Look, the seventh hour of debate is on. The configurations for this debate were provided by those who led the meeting before me. I think that only one warning has been given, as regards the position of the Group of Members, with the Slovenian National Party. You've been talking to everyone about everything, not the points of interpolation. According to his colleague Polnar, he also defined certain things from his knowledge of literature. But the fact is that this interpellation was built, as it seemed, on the structure. That's what they say on some deliberate story 14 years ago. He used to say things that were related, I don't know, to obsolescence and so on, but it just defined the problem. [[Incomprehensible]] I don't see this kind of trouble in this part. As far as I'm concerned, you'll be handling this elsewhere. This is not a matter of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He's got Rudy Bear on trial first if he wants a procedural one. You want a word as a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u113	No, Mr Vice President, as a motioner, I will wait for the Minister to return because I have some questions for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u114	Okay. He's got Natasha Suklich on trial. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u115	Mr President, once again, I would like to make a procedural suggestion that you are accurate, if you are interpreting this. First of all, keep the same vats as you do every day when you hold a meeting. This is where Mr. Polnar spoke of everything else, just not the interpretation. And this interpolation, your honor, you say it's built on a structure, this interpolation has four points. One of them is, say, a referendum. And Mr Polnar was also very much focused on the referendum, and 680,000 people were referred to as all living, from cretinism, liars, celibacy, scoundrels, hypocrites, I don't know; in short, we are all, in our own words, butts that we don't understand this law. And, of course, he gave us his version here and the understanding of the law in a very inappropriate way for a member of the National Assembly. So I demand that he apologize to the public again for what he has said. And you, please don't interpret it as if this interpolation is built on a structure because it is composed of four points. And there's only one talking about stupid taxes that you call a construct, but we're not in court. We're in the National Assembly, so you don't know if it's a construct, like I can't know it 100%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u116	My colleague, I'll say it again. It will not excuse and will not require anyone in this National Assembly, because this is not the subject of the Rules of Procedure. That's the thing about you. As for the emphasis that Polnar said, it is based on denunciation, on demagogy and on lies in politics. I think I've got these three key points; and each of these things came to one of the chapters. How he defines the question at the referendum or explains the Water Act, which was at the referendum, is his business. He said, I think, the essence of the law, but he said how it was sold to the public. And here I don't see a particular problem, I'm just telling you honestly. Robert Polnar, replica. He doesn't want replicas. Procedurally, Mr. Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only ask that Member of the Left not abuse procedural procedures for substantive discussions and for attacks and challenges [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u118	Colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u119	to the Messengers, because you can't answer her with a replica or anything. [[…]] Second, it benefits and wastes precious time that we all have at our disposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u120	Comrade Doblekar [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u121	With these machinations of yours. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u122	The procedural proposal is addressed to me, not to a fellow debater. I also warn you that you do not abuse procedural proposals or violate the rules of procedure. It's Marijan Pojbič. And she'll get Tina Hefferle's word after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to say, and I have to stand up for Mr Pollnar, because today he has made some things very clear here and he has said. The problem may be that one of the Members and Members sitting in this national assembly does not understand it in the way he said it. And that, unfortunately, can't be helped. Mr Polnar, I agree with you in the part where you made it very clear – lying to a lie means, thirty times the lie becomes the truth. And the fact is, and it's definitely the truth that this interpolation is built on insinuations, on lies and on twisted truths and so on. I'm sure this interpellation doesn't have any basis for Minister Vizjak being interpeeled today. Maybe I'll start with that and say that this interpolation and this editing of this video is meant to try to prevent those who control from the background the environment and space from any changes to the good of the people in this area. Look, the last 10 years or more in this area have practically done nothing. We stopped right there. There were problems, there were fires, I don't know what happened at the time, but nothing happened. And to attach to what I have just said, among other things, it is very important when it fell or when the former Prime Minister, Marjan Sarec, resigned, to say the following in his resignation statement: I cannot satisfy people with this government, I cannot justify people's high expectations, and so on and so forth. Among other things, he said: “The main problem was that everyone wanted to look under the sun for their own space, that the boat was constantly shaking.” And then Luke the Moon said this, quote: “This coalition no longer made any sense, it was only dealing with each other’s grinding and human resources accumulation. Something came up, and it didn't work out. After the resignation of Marjan Šarc, it must be a bitter realization that it was not possible to implement politics with this coalition. This coalition has collapsed on its own." Alenka Bratušek said: “There are areas where we have not actually done much or almost nothing. We want Slovenia to have a stable, stable government that can work as a team as soon as possible. This is what we have done with this government,” that is, the government led by Marjan Šarec, “sadly missed us.” And look how interesting it is. Here comes the government of Janez Janša, the Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrej Vizjak and they're getting serious. I'm serious. They are serious about the key dilemmas and problems facing the Slovenian people. And then what happens next? Of course, when important changes, important and positive solutions, have begun to be adopted in the field of the environment and space, it begins to think – the background uncles and their team and the media community, leftist – how to put an end to this matter now. Of course, then they begin to think — listen to what they would find for me to stop the Minister of Vision from leading the solutions that are still important for the future of this country. And, of course, then someone who was involved here when this recording took place, because this is a tape of four recordings, he remembered – E, and now we can make one of these different conversations, which we will try to put through the media and press on Minister Viszak to stop him in our solutions, which he proposes for a better and better future for our country, our society. And according to my assessment, after what Minister Vizjak said today, what he wrote, and today at least ten times he repeated here, he said clearly enough what his goal was and what his goal was when he decided to talk to Petan. And this goal was to protect state property. And despite his efforts, he failed to do so, because it is evident that Petan then destroyed the case with his team and with these uncles from behind; and today, practically this company, Terme Catež, which I am talking about, practically destroyed and damaged the country, I do not know how much, almost 100 million euros. And he's still sitting on the principal's chair. And then if you put all this together, it becomes clear to you why it happened at that time, three or four months before the elections, Minister Visiak, and that this matter came into the media, into the socialist-communist, I will say, the media. Unfortunately, I have to say this because it's true. Because it is amazing what the media scene is like in our society and who it is who is doing it, what it does to defend elites and pressure all those who work to change Slovenia and bring Slovenia back to the Slovenes, but not to a narrow criminal society, so that this narrow criminal society does not have Slovenia in control, as it has in all socialist governments. This government is the one that started the changes. And the Ministry of Environment and Space is extremely active. Then I'll tell you why everything has done in this short time. And let me focus a little bit more on the Water Act. Where Mr Polnar made a very clear statement, he did not offend any one who voted against the law, nor did the one who voted for the law say only the truth. And now I'm going to read two things, namely the reasons, the goals of the new Water Act. The proposal for the Law on Water contained two key substantive solutions, which were not crucial and relevant from a systemic and substantive point of view of environmental protection or water protection, and represent an administrative burden by transferring the powers of decision-making from the government level to the professional or administrative level, while maintaining strict water protection conditions; and the possibility of increasing funds for the implementation of the economic public water management service through the Water Facility. Now let someone sitting in this House tell me what's wrong with that. And to continue, then, of course, there will be the adoption of a law and actors who have decided to hold a referendum, but they have addressed the referendum with complete deception and lies. And look at the phrases they used. To allow the law to privatise water resources in Slovenia. To prevent access to the shores, rivers and seas. To destroy drinking water resources. To witness the widespread and unsupervised building of watercourses and the like. Now you tell me. People who don't have time to sit in Parliament and listen to or sit in front of TVs and listen to an expert discussion about what this law has solved at professional level, and then by lying through your entire media scene, you start to convince them that the law will make it possible to privatise water resources in Slovenia. And it's not in this House, but it's not in Slovenia, which I would say – but it can't be, and that's not a speech, and I'm absolutely against it here. Absolutely, just one thing. So it's a complete manipulation of people. The structures you brought in this referendum. But the people who voted in this referendum have nothing to do with it and have absolutely nothing to do with it. They were completely deceived, and lying to a lie became the truth. And that's what I think shouldn't have happened, because the Water Act was good and was meant for people. By no means did he have anything to do with allowing the law to privatise water resources in Slovenia. This is total madness. We also have water as a good entry in the Slovenian Constitution. Today, as Mr Polnar has said, who is the one who manages the waters that they are local communities. And then today you are trying to force the Minister in every way to resign because he fought to prevent the destruction of state property. And today it was very clear, there have been several referendums, but apparently some vats apply to this government and to the Slovenian Democratic Party and all other vats apply to SD and all other parties, including the KUL coalitions. See how many referendums he lost, as has already been said today, Dr. Ivan Svetlik. And he also said, today it was said that he was then appointed Rector of the University of Ljubljana. And so is Rada Bohinc. None of them gave up. None of them. And no one then attacked anyone, even though that's legitimate. Every interpolation is legitimate. However, if we are talking about vats, these vats should be treated equally in all matters. That I will not be too long for the end of what seems most important to me, and that is what the Ministry of Environment and Space has done and what it plans to do by the end of this term. I think that the Minister has already spoken about this today, but I think my colleague Bojan Podkoršek has also presented these achievements in the position of the Group of Members and what is in the Coalition Treaty and so on. From this we can see, I will now tell you why there are so many pressures on the Minister of Vision after the resignation. Because he works and the Ministry works and solves problems. Of course, in the last ten years, there has been virtually no movement in this area, but if anyone has already done so, they have suspended him, whether he has had to resign, whether the government has fallen or whatever. And again at this point is this experiment. Clearly, these dark forces dealing with waste and so forth are so powerful that they try to overthrow every minister and every government. But I'll tell you, these government coalitions and these governments in such a vile way, you will never overthrow them with lies. I guarantee you, no. Now, though, things that this ministry has done in this short period of time or will do. Since March 2020, the Ministry of the Environment and Space has approved more than 90 smaller and larger investments, projects totalling EUR 400 million for water supply, sewage systems and flood safety under the Agreement for the Development of the Regions. Protecting water resources is a prerequisite for providing clean drinking water. In this mandate, Minister Vizjak and the ILO has accelerated the preparation and adoption of regulations, with 5 adopted by the Council from March 2020 to November this year, with more than 20 in preparation. The situation on the watercourses has deteriorated in the past due to unrealised recovery programmes and since now €10 million per year. This has started to remove damage to facilities caused by water catch in the last 10 years. Low water supply due to poor maintenance in recent decades. In this mandate, we have increased funds to maintain watercourses of more than EUR 25 million per year. This year, 2021 is the first regular maintenance programme of more than €28 million. After 16 years of negotiation, Minister Visiak was able to reach a concession contract for the production of electricity in Central Savi, thereby reducing the use of environmentally friendly ODS, greenhouse gas emissions, flood safety and so on. The Ministry of the Environment and Space has accelerated the implementation of the Integrated Territorial Investment Mechanisms (CTN). From 2020 to today, 20 projects signed contracts, decisions issued on support or approved in the application for co-financing were approved. The total value of operations is €69 million. The Ministry of Environment and Space carried out the rehabilitation of 154 beaches or facilities in 78 municipalities worth €25.5 million. This has improved the safety of people. As part of the de-de-barcation measures, deregulation has been carried out in the field of environmental impact assessment, reducing the case by 30% without damaging the environment. The closure of landfills and rehabilitations are actively carried out. In accordance with the coalition commitment, an inventory of potentially contaminated areas, approximately 550, was carried out in Slovenia and an application was made. In the field of climate change and biological security, two changes to the coalition commitments in climate change management have been made. The Climate Change Fund spending programme for the period 2021-2023 and the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia were adopted. In line with the coalition commitment, the Ministry of Environment and Space renewed housing legislation and provided at least 5,000 additional public rental apartments by 2026. In accordance with the coalition commitments, the Ministry of the Environment and Space has prepared the Law on Spatial Planning and the Construction Law. The law brings easier, faster, cheaper and more digitised solutions to citizens. More than 30 building permits and more than 120 spatial documents have so far been issued under the Law on the Elimination of Obstacles in the Implementation of Important Investments for the Starting of the Economy with the aim of more efficient procedures for obtaining a building permit. The Pomeranian Spatial Plan of Slovenia has been adopted for the first time in our country since its independence, with strategically planned and sustainable development of activities and uses at sea. Dear colleagues, you now understand why you're trying to tempt the Minister of Mags. The visionary is disabled. Just because he's working, because he's proved with his work that things can change. Mr Vizjak convinced me today and I will vote against the interpretation because he has my complete trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much. First, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Natasa Sukič. I ask for attention and respect – both me who conduct the session and those who discuss it. Natasha Sukich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have witnessed many times this interpretation, not even talking about interpretation, but obviously this is a promo video for all that the Minister of Good Has done or will do good. [[…]] And we're here talking about what he's done to the issue. Interpellation is not to promote good things, but Ambassador Pojbič has been so fiery that I will be voting against interpretation if he has any other contribution. In short, Minister Vizjak says today that in the case of Petan [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u126	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u127	Minister Vizjak defended himself today, among other things – he said several times – that in the case of Petan he fought for the protection of public interest. But look, respectable and respected, what is the chief sin of the Minister of Vision? The visionary's past sin is that he did not stand up for it, but actively participated in the creation of tycoons – that is, Mr Petan is a tycoon – that they then ate up large pieces of the state economy or that they were tycunizing public companies. Who created the tycoons or how tycoonization occurred? Yes, the first Janša government has adopted legislation that has made this possible. And Minister Vizjak, who is now Minister of the Environment, was then Minister of Economy. So he was part of that crew. His present sin is now being committed during this period, but is what? This same logic perpetuates the same logic, namely the Water Act is such a case, although today you are trying to prove to us in every way that we do not understand that this same logic of private profits at the expense of the public good is now moving from the economy, which is already fully privatized, almost no longer in public ownership, to the field of environment and water. And the case was just this water law, and I hope the minister heard me say what I'm saying right now, because that's an important point, yes. There were 680 thousand people here who saw that there could be walls along the waters, privatisations, and so on. Don't joke. 680 thousand people aren't so ignorant that I don't say stupid enough to understand some sense of law. Even if it's nice when my friend Pojbič quoted us a little earlier as saying how things were going. I'm saying, we're in a situation where we want to prove today at the interpolation that 680,000 people were obviously manipulated, misled, clueless, all civil society, non-governmental environmental organisations are, I don't know, corrupt or, I don't know, evil or whatever, misinterpreted and so on. Now it's too bad that Pojbič's colleague isn't here to tell me where some communist-socialist medium is, to subscribe to him, because I would really like to be the subscriber of such a caitng. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposaler Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, now we've been listening for a while now that interpolation is a single lie and a single construct. But it's going to take a little more effort, colleagues and colleagues, to defend the minister. This is certainly no excuse, but this is not a denial of the facts recorded in this interpretation. But it's true that it's slowly becoming a construct of this famous statement about stupid taxes. Because we have heard so many versions now, and since the beginning of the day, it is not clear anymore. After Minister Vizjak once said that it was an authentic statement, that it was an authentic recording, and today, if I understood it correctly, he speaks a little differently. From what he said, you would conclude — and you will, Minister, correct me if I did, but maybe I misunderstood — that it was not said in the same conversation: you will pay taxes, damage, that is stupid. From this I would conclude that this may have been even at three different events. You once said - you'll pay taxes and somewhere else - too bad and then there - it's stupid. And you're substantiating this by some ton master, some ton master figured it out. Some tonic master, who reportedly even heard somewhere between these three words of bird singing, was chewing glasses. That's not how it works. You know, proof of authenticity isn't left to some tone master who has, I don't know, a little better equipment. This can and can only be judged by a judicially authorised expert. And a court-appointed expert, and you may have heard that a number of times, has confirmed the authenticity of this video. Minister, I would therefore now ask you to tell us once again whether this dictatorship or this verbal relationship has ever been pronounced or whether this has been brought together by several events. Not a single word, I hope. If it wasn't authentic, why would the President of the Government go to check on the tax payments? The Prime Minister of the Government, after you said it was authentic, went to check on how he was paying taxes, and he found that your statement did not result in a drop in taxes. Who do you believe now? And there's something else I'm interested in about this, and now I'm going to skip to your fight to preserve the public interest in Terme Catež. You're kind of trying to tell us that interpellation was caused by the operation of Tycoon Petan. I don't know where you get this, because this interpolation, the trigger for this interpolation, you know it has more points, it's not just Terme Catež. The trigger was just a tycoon, pyda-mixing of you and this tycoon Petan. Tycoon, palsy-mixing. This does not give rise to any kind of struggle to preserve national interest. Where is the result of the struggle to preserve national interest? That's what I'm interested in. Because if you fought like that, you fought so badly. But you fought so hard, of course, that you made a deal under the table. There was a terrible fight outside against the tycoons on all fronts, but you two were making deals, negotiating under the table, but Petan brought you around. You said somewhere, if that's your statement – that you haven't said anything yet, I'll say in the notes, "fucked." But it's obvious that Petan is the village! It's obvious you're here because then, suddenly, this moaning that Terme Catež had dug a 100-million-dollar hole or a 100-million-dollar property damage? Then why did you allow it? Why did you allow the state to be stranded in the Terme Catež? Someone has to be responsible for the fact that the owner is stuck there and we have thus lost nearly 40 million if the value is now nothing. Whether it's $5 million, I don't know how much this stake is worth right now. You say nothing, I've read that about five million. In those days, however, we could have gotten out of this by selling this property for more than 40 million. This is the fight for the state's interest. And today you're saying that Terme Catež is an incredibly bad society. That's what I believe. I believe so. On the other hand, you set the example of Terme Olimia, who prosper, are a growing society, a thriving society. But in 2007, if you hadn’t done so, you wouldn’t have been able to talk about Terme Olimia like that — including talking to Petan about Olympia and joining Terme Olimia to Terme Catež. Today you would probably have two bad associations, as you said — if you said so, you would say. And the second is when you buy Olimio. “We can help here, we can discuss now, Bojan, how we will do. They can be here, they can be there, at the church." And then you locked something in there, and I'm not gonna say it out loud. This was, therefore, this struggle for state interest, from which we came to lose nearly 40 million. That's how you, Minister, made a deal, and that's the result. So it was your meddling with the tycoon Petan that was absolutely harmful and not showing itself as a great fighter all of a sudden, if the result is completely different, but in the whole process you've been involved all along. As for the referendum on the Water Act, on which so many false ideas were again sown by the minister's advocates, it is still necessary to react. We all know exactly why people were at the referendum against this law, so don't be fooled. If there and there someone wrote foolishly that water resources would be privatized, and who knows what else, it was written foolishly because some advocate also said great nonsense about this law and the resultant referendum. But you know, it was just that people didn't trust, they didn't trust this ruling politician. What's in the back, that was the question. What's in the back? And what was behind whom was this fear? Before politics. Because if you write down that the security guard is that there will never be a shore outside the populated area, the Water Directorate, in a situation where this authority has managed virtually all systems and subsystems in this country, you will never convince me that the policy on this Water Directorate cannot affect and that a wide range of water permits can also come due to political pressure. It was the main fear of people to vote against it. That's why you, the minister, at the time correctly found out — that night or at the polling station — that the vote against the government would be against the vote. And that's what really happened. Because of the complete mistrust of people in this government, this ruling policy, that's why it happened. So that we may not tire of him who was deceived for a long time; no one was misled. No one was misled. The 100,000 mentioned by the minister who was in favour of trusting this government. But then there were about 700,000 of them that she didn't. And that's the whole truth of this referendum. Looking for ministers back, I don't know how long ago, why they didn't resign because of the referendum – I don't know why. I don't know why nobody asked them to do this either, but there are few referendums in the history of this country where the Minister would lose so badly because the Minister would actually be without support even in his own kind. He himself tried hard to convince people that he did not have any real support. This too was seen far away, and in the end it was the result of what it was. Even with regard to the treatment of waste packaging. You, Minister, can already claim that Slopak will have nothing to do with this. I don't know if there are any more of these companies here, whether all these companies, the minister, the garbage mafia or any of these companies are not within this group called the garbage mafia. Well, he can't hear me now. Is Slopak part of this garbage mafia or not part of it? In view of the fact that Slopak is controlled by the SDS party and that, interestingly, it was only Slopak in coordination at the Ministry of the Environment with regard to the new law, if the information is correct. He'll tell the minister, but maybe he's not. I asked you this: are all these companies a group called the garbage mob, or is any of them exempt from this? You're also saying that they're all from the left political field, which I wrote down. There is also an Austrian company. Is that left too? You'll explain. I don't know if it's in the left political field. That's what I meant if you could explain further.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by Minister Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u131	Relatively short, from the end. As regards the opposition to the environmental protection regulation in the Waste Protection Act, only some economic operators, not all, have actively lobbyed. Some have also addressed you, you know this well, I also know and the Members know who has lobbyed and wanted to talk, and you will only be able to figure out which half of whom is who. I didn't spot the poles or anything, I just said that there were lobbyist pressures and that I understand that a lot of people fit to be powered from multiple sources for the same thing. As far as glue is concerned. I don't know, honourable Member, I believe you can read and you've listened, I've explained this three times, and you're still acting like I haven't said anything, and I'm going to say it again. And for the last time. Or maybe not. Three contributions were posted on this topic only on one medium, only on 24UR TONIGHT POP TV at 22:00 p.m. and a few minutes. The first publication was on 18 October of this year at 22:00 and 10 minutes and this was a glue. October 18th, first post, glue. This was also proved by a ton expert, Mr Krapsa, who was the same TV, after I doubted authenticity, sent this contribution, and POP TV did not want to announce that it was a glue, but it was published by Siol, who also received this opinion by the Tonian expert. No expert analysis has ruled that out. So, video, published 18. 10 a.m. to 24 hours a night, she's glued to four videos that can't tell us what we were talking about, because she can talk to a tape of different – what would you say? – you achieve a completely different purpose than you actually did in a spontaneous conversation. For reasons of correctness, I asked the POP TV journalist to publish the entire video, the watch and something else. No, they didn't. They never wanted to publish what we were actually talking to the gentleman, but they wanted to manipulate you and the audience, or the audience, or the audience, and the viewers. Two other contributions were then published on the same subject on 3 November and 8 November. 3. 11. was published a slightly longer contribution to the conversation, which I said was not a glue, and that does not mean that the conversation with 18. 11 is not a glue. Do we understand each other? And then they published eight. 11. Four shorter contributions, which were not a glue, but were manipulated because they were interim forecasts. I don't know whether I explained it or not. I hope I did. Because it's more than clear. Stupid taxes, so-called affair comes from glue. Because she doesn't show up later and those famous eggs came up that I apologized for. I'll tell you again, Mr. Petan and I didn't make any deals. I wanted to convince him not to make an enemy takeover, a harmful takeover of the Terme Catež. True, you are right, I failed to convince him because he was assisted by his colleagues from the New Ljubljana Bank, then by the state banks, Mr Kramar and Matthew Narat, because they sold him shares under the table in an untransparent way. Nobody's asking anyone in this state bank today. They sold him a key stake that was formerly owned by the state. He was then sold and landed at the so-called Taikun Factor Bank and later Erste Bank and in 2009 in the DZS Group. That was a crime back then. Dear Mr. Medved, I have here video clips from 2007: “The Termes of Catež are a crime, so says Minister Andrej Vizjak, who is furious at the attempts of property change in this society.” 23. Seven. 2007 Look. [[shows the object]] How much is that? At that time, I also reacted with pressure to control institutions, even to other stakeholders who could prevent it, but did not prevent it. And today, Terme Catež is where they are. Unfortunately. I hope I made myself quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Proposer Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We're not exactly together about this glue. So, from different periods, from different places, there was a glued “tax you will pay”, “damage”, “this is stupid”? That's all I care about. So this wasn't in one conversation, but is it glued together from multiple conversations? What do you mean, "I understand"? As far as identification is concerned, you're saying that you didn't find out about this garbage mob, which half of it is, which half they belong to. Yes, here you said a few hours ago: “These companies belong in the left political sex.” That's what you said. Of course I wrote it down and we'll be able to take a look. So you figured it out. So you figured it out. In what way does that actually work out, I don't know. You know that with many years of experience, how to place the company in one or the other. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Tina Hefferle has the word, and she will be discussed by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Dear Minister! I will begin with your opening statement, or with your introduction, which you had in the morning. One statement made me very impressed in a negative sense, if I may put it that way, shows your duality, as far as your value system is concerned. You said, I already have a magnetogram here, that it is quite amazing, quite amazing, that some court proceedings have already begun, you have talked about Mr Petan, "and nothing has happened to these people, on the contrary, they are still doing their work, or they are rewarded with executive posts in societies where the owner is also a country." Mr Minister, I may even agree with you here, it is quite amazing that people who are in judicial criminal proceedings do not get hurt, but let me remind you that you are part of a government that supports this kind of behaviour. In fact, one of your ministerial colleagues is also in court for a crime of tax evasion and forgeries, and nothing happens to him, and he still holds a very high position in the state, the ministerial city. In short, I wanted to point out to your duality with this introductory work of yours when it comes to some of the valuable criteria that you've been advocating all day. To be honest, I don't believe in coincidence, and I don't think it's a coincidence that, even if 14 years ago, as Minister, you offered to someone in exchange for something, whatever else, some cooperative composition of the supervisory board was replacing the company director and I don't know what else. It's not a coincidence, it's simply that you've been caught in direct violations of regulatory legislation. And it is not that we, the interpellations' proponents, are citing or comparing with the current corporate governance legislation and the previous one, but you just want to present today how ignorant we are that we do not know the difference between the present company law and the previous one that was in force at the time. That's what you wanted to show. No, it is that you, as a member of the Supervisory Council, did not have any legal basis to trade with the composition of the Supervisory Board, to trade shares just like that, with the shares of companies owned by the State, and also which were not, just so at an off-record meeting in the middle of a place in secret. You've been saying all day you've been saying that your purpose was to protect state property. As a minister, if your intention were truly sincere and well-intentioned, we would be doing it in the Ministry's offices, not in a bar in a corner, by the way. As it is said, this meddling, as my colleague Rudy mentioned earlier, is nothing more than unjustifiably that you have been dealing with something that you should not, in fact, trade even after the then legislation governing corporate governance. It is no coincidence for me, too, that you have used very inappropriate terminology in your efforts to preserve state property. Of course, I am talking about what you unequivocally admitted – that you said you were going to shoot some judge's balls. It is not a coincidence, it is a direct violation of a constitutional provision which provides that they are judges or that the judiciary in its work is independent and independent and bound solely and solely by the Constitution and laws. You have made this statement – even if you apologized for it 14 years ago, it does not excuse the fact, you say yourself that you are a man of action – you have actually demonstrated the intentions of your actions, which is that, if necessary, you will influence one way or another in deciding judges in some of the commercial matters that you have discussed with Mr Petan. In short, this statement, once again, even though you already apologized for it today, you know, an apology for such a statement of a man's position as you do at the time and as you do today, is not really an excuse. Because that means that if we agree to bow down under some excuse of the Minister for the extremely unacceptable, perverted act, then you can tell all the citizens today who are going to exceed speed, I don't know, but in the village, the cops will stop them, they want to go down, let's apologize, because okay, because if you apologize, it's okay. Mr. Secretary, it's not okay. Such a statement suggests that you are impressed, that you clearly share an opinion on your client's judicial system, your president, who always says when he does not like any court decision that we have in our country a criminal case that says that we have judges in the Constitutional Court who are politically oriented and are not professional. In short, your statement is another mosaic of your perception, which you seem to share with your SDS client and with the Prime Minister of the Judiciary. Certainly, as has already been said, there is no coincidence that this hearing has happened. I don't personally care why he got out after 14 years. From this position, where I am now a Member and a representative of the people and a representative of the legislative branch of power, and from this position, where we now identify your political responsibility, I am not even interested in whether the hearing is legal or not, this will be determined by the court when it is possible to determine your criminal responsibility. When we talk about political responsibility, however, things are very clear. It's black on white that you're on this tape. It is not true, as you have just replied to your colleague Rudy, that POP TV, as owner or owner of these recordings, has never declared itself authentic or according to your opinion about the glue. On their website, under an article that had already talked about all these recordings, it was very clear that “the forensic investigation into all the conversations between Visiak and Petan, which we published, has taken place for more than 14 days due to the thoroughness and use of the most credible software tools to verify the authenticity of the recordings and sounds”. They also write: “At the Institute of Forensics and Information Technology, IKAR Lab 3 has investigated the interview files – it is a professional forensic tool to analyze the voice signals used in 350 forensic laboratories around the world, in more than 40 countries, and are designed to verify the authenticity of audio recordings. After an independent investigation, they are convinced that none of the audio files under consideration,” none of the audio files under consideration, “has not been substantially modified.” All I'm saying is, what are publicly available data, and since you said earlier that POP TV didn't define itself to the obvious that it was a glue, I just read you what they published. But you can create your own opinion. After all, I hope that the citizens will follow us and judge for themselves who they believe. With regard to the recordings of your actions or spoken words, however, perhaps the vast majority of the people we are aware of may find that it is in fact an immoral, unhygienic act, even though it is just a speech, even that is the conduct, Mr. Minister. Words also reflect man and man’s actions when they are expressed. Because that's an act, too. By not putting too much into words, you put a lot into action — because it is practically the same thing. In short, it is unacceptable and perverse that a person forged a minister of any economic operator, even if indirectly, encourages him to avoid paying the tax in such a way or other way. That's unacceptable. If I ask myself rhetorically: how can you, as a minister, defend the interests of the State, if you are trying or advising, or at least indirectly, I do not know, do you agree or do you agree that this same country is being financially damaged? It doesn't work together. This is a direct violation, if you want to formally, your oaths, which you started and took ministerial office, where before the National Assembly, which gives you a mandate, you will swear to work for the well-being of Slovenia. That's what you're breaking your oath with. If I say just a little bit about intermezza or for interesting reasons, the Slovenian Penal Code is also known by the institute of instigation. Article 37 of the Penal Code stipulates that one who intentionally commits another to commit a crime – we know that tax evasion is a criminal offence, not least we have one minister of your government, Mr. Vizjak, who is charged with such suspicions, with a crime of tax evasion – punishes as if he committed it himself. So, your conduct, Mr. Minister, even if you say words, even if verbally speaking, in my opinion, is at least politically controversial, if perhaps not even criminally disputed. But it will be judged by other authorities, today I will not define myself as merely interesting for those who listen to us, and I also suggest that there is such a crime in Slovenian criminal law. It's not a coincidence for me, either, that in March and May, if I'm not mistaken, you bought Petrol's shares. Of course, in your introductory address, somehow with sadness in your voice you wanted to blow up a little bit when you said that you really didn't think you were going to live in a country where someone would be convicted because they were buying shares in the open market. Mr Minister, at the same time you forget your position, which you already had, this is the ministerial position in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and you forget that at the time, at the time of your purchase of shares, you have already discussed in the Government whether to deregulation the market. Undoubtedly or very obviously, it is not to say that it was a coincidence that you went to get a huge loan for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at the time, 120 000 euros a large loan for you to go buy [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's what you yourself said that you went for a $120,000 loan to buy shares. It could have been a coincidence if you hadn't been burdened by a similar past. In 2012, you were treated the same way — you say you are a man of action — you met with the same action when buying Telekom shares. It must have been a coincidence that the day after you bought the shares, those dividends rose enormously. In short, in my opinion, this is not about coincidence, but about the obvious modus operandi of Minister Visiak. When you add up one plus one, the real situation in 2012, the situation in the case of Petrol's shares, the vast majority of people accompanying these media stories agree that it is at least an indica, if not for anything else, that you had some internal information that you abused. Let me also remind you here that the Penal Code also defines the crime of abuse of internal information in Article 238. I can even read it to you, if you like, as follows: “Who can have a significant impact on the price of securities or derivatives,” and further, is quite a few texts, “to acquire information about his position or his employment, and to use it by buying or selling securities,” and so on, “can be punished by imprisonment for up to three years.” This is a defined offence of misuse of internal information, Article 238 of the Penal Code. As it is said, I will not be defined here as your criminal responsibility, because the interpretation is not intended to do so, today we find your political responsibility, for which standards are significantly lower, for the existence of political responsibility than for the existence of criminal responsibility. If nothing else, here is your political responsibility, given that we are talking about political responsibility, also about some morality, about ethics, about the hygiene of the Minister's actions, undisputedly established for me. You've proven that you can listen not only to your conscience, but obviously to internal information. As far as the allegations are concerned, you have already talked a lot about this today, Mr Minister, about taking over Catež or about your share trading and so on. In your reply to the interpolation, you wrote: “If the takeover offer were fair and we would offer money and not securities for the stock, the state would probably accept the takeover offer, sell its share and withdraw from the property of Terme Catež.” I quoted that from your response to the interpolation. Today, case or case, I don't know, he's leaking a document that shows that this purchase offer has been made. You commented on that today. Given that this paper that came to the public puts you on the lie if we look at this quoted sentence from your response to the interpretation, we can conclude that there never was an offer, but it was. Today you have commented on this; you have turned it around, of course, because you had to, you have commented that how can a company with 40 million annual traffic invest an investment worth 50 million euros. That's what you said. That's not a serious offer for you, and that's not serious, that's unacceptable. Mr Minister, the purchase or offer was made before they bought 100,000 of their own shares worth 31.2 million euros. Prior to the purchase of their own shares, the state was offered a purchase of €41 million. In short, there is a difference of €10 million. And we both know that the scope of the company's turnover is not the only criterion for whether or not the company gets credit on the bank, as you have previously speculated that it would not get credit for that investment anyway. I don't know, the factors in getting credit from the company are, say, an assessment of the investment, and the impact of the investment on the company's expected return, which the bank is working on the basis of a business plan, and so on. In short, your speculation today, when you're familiar with or when we're all familiar with this offer that you've been keeping secret to this day, I would point out once again that even in response to the interpretation, you wrote that if any takeover offer were fair, where you would offer a cash purchase or a cash purchase, you would probably sell your share then. In short, you get involved in this story, you get involved. If I still support this position of yours that a company that has 40 million traffic can't invest 50 million so that it doesn't work together. Dear Minister, your government has made a million-dollar deal with Majbert Pharma, and this company is a year earlier in a business year away from having a million traffic. So your arguments really don't hold up and, as it were, you've been confusing yourself all day about these readings. As we say today, it is a matter of identifying political responsibility and not any other. So that the personal characteristics of the minister or the objective responsibility of the minister – you say that there is no written name on this document by Minister Vizjak, your name. You, as Minister, are also objectively politically responsible, not just subjectively. You also have moral responsibility. All these criteria can and should represent the weight of your political responsibility today. It is undeniable that we have proved to you that if any of the above, you are formally carrying at least the moral controversy of your actions. In some mature democracies, this should be a sufficient reason to give up. Today we have also heard some examples of derogations abroad, where politicians do not just lean on their chairs because they are there, but they can say mea culpa and prove their innocence, possibly innocence, without sitting on the office chair. Just for a little while, with regard to the water law. Earlier in one of the debates, I think we heard more rhetorical questions about what people at the referendum defended, pure drinking water and so on. At the referendum, people defended our environment and drinking water before building and carrying out potentially dangerous activities in water protection areas and building on the coastal and coastal zones. Anyone who thinks it's his duty to decide on the right to build in the hands of local communities is seriously wrong. Local communities have nothing to do with building permits, they have nothing to do with building and carrying out potentially hazardous activities in water protection areas and building on the coastal and coastal zones. Thus, of course, there is evidence regarding the adoption process or the preparation of the legal text of the Water Law. If you looked strictly legalistic, as you do, Mr Minister, you might even agree, yes, public treatment was carried out, those 14 days were unlocked, and the matter is formally, formalistically, strictly formalistically satisfied. But adding substantively important, content-controversial articles to the post-festum festival, after a public hearing is what your legalistic view puts in the light of violations of a number of normative bases – the Aarhus Convention, the Law on Environmental Protection and so on, I will not repeat myself, my colleagues have already talked about this. As it is said, if your practice were used, each law could be drafted in a very formal way, put into public debate or public hearing, completed within 14 days, and then post-festum in the legislative process, where we know that public participation can be very limited, added controversial articles that would substantially alter the content of the law. This was your modus operandi also with, say, the Construction Law, in at least one part that touched the Water Act. Today, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, we should not forget that we are deciding on political responsibility. Not about criminal or indemnity or any other responsibility of Minister Visiak, but about political. People also know, without concern, that they are aware that a abstention vote today means a vote for the Minister of Vision. Because we need 46 votes for the success of the interpolation, which means that in the position of the parliamentary groups you can still play such a huge role in the work of the minister, his personality, the inappropriateness of his conduct, if you will abstain, you will give your vote to the minister. This means that you support such practices, means that you support such policies, and in fact those words of reprisal and condemnation from your views of the sent groups will mean nothing at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you very much. He asked the Minister of Mag for a word. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Chairman. Yes, only this would be lacking in Parliament's decision on compensation and criminal liability, no. I don't know why you mentioned this, Your Honor, because this is not your business. But let me inform you that there is not a single charge or investigative action that I would know has been instituted against me in no proceedings. So as far as that's concerned, I'm clean. At least I don't know about that. That's one thing. Another thing that's very important. You've been hinting at the shares, and I don't know where else, you've used the impossible data to hire 120,000 euros of credit – banks don't give me that much credit. Neither one of you will be given 120,000 euros in credit, unless you're mortgaged, I don't know what. My income doesn't allow it, even my assets don't, but I'm not crazy about putting anything in the flag for such a loan, especially for the purchase of shares. So it's pure misinformation, pure fiction. On my assets, I report my credits to the Commission for the prevention of corruption as well as to all of you. It doesn't even occur to me to explain it to you or to the media. That's one thing. The other thing is, wrongly, honourable Member, you have read that writing on one side to be a takeover offer. That's not a take-up offer. This paper [[shows the object]] is a letter from the National Publications of Slovenia to the capital company for the purchase of the shares of Terme Catež from the capital company. If this was a take-up offer, it should have been previously approved by the Securities Markets Agency and, of course, the tenderer of this take-over bid should provide the appropriate guarantees in order to actually buy this share. That offer was probably not believed in, and no one who can count to five believes it. Why not? Because DZS had EUR 52 million and EUR 40 million in 2007 for this offer. The winnings were $3 million. So an entity with 3 million profits would buy a share of the capital company for 40 million. But that's not all. At the time, the capital company had only 20% of the property of Terme Catež. If this deal were to come to fruition, then the DHS should announce a takeover bid, because it would increase the share and it should publish a takeover offer and should buy another 50 %, which is another 150 million euros. So the DZS would have to pay 200 million Euros with 3 million Euros of profits to take over Terme Catež – if this were a serious intention! Your Honor, if you believe this, I don't. This is about this – I will give you a plastic comparison that people will be better able to imagine – as if the recipient of the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia, which is already in charge of 10,000 euros, by the way, at the time the DZS was already in charge of 100 million euros, short-term and long-term loans had so much, went to the bank and asked for 30,000 euro loans to buy a car. So anyone who has a minimum wage, and that salary will be immediately without paying off, I don't know how much time. Each minimum wage holder has, if he has, a space of about 100, 200 euros, the remaining costs and cannot afford them. I hope you believe that this was a paper, one of Boyana Petan's maneuvers, which was innumerable to the wind and the country around it. And with such unrealistic offers that are unrealistic, now comes this going medium again to plan and wants to confuse you, or those who can count to five, probably not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The replica, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u139	Mr. Secretary, if you don't want to understand me or if you don't understand me, you'd say you don't want to understand me. Yes, of course, thank God that no compensation and criminal responsibility are identified in the National Assembly, that is exactly what I wanted to stress. Don't turn my words maliciously. You're very skilled at this, I must admit. I said that today we are deciding on your political responsibility and because political responsibility is significantly lower than standards, at least they should be, as they are for criminal responsibility. I think your political responsibility has been established. On the basis of all the facts we have been giving you since 10 a.m. today, political responsibility has been established. Because in the performance of the ministerial function it is moral indisputability, ethical indisputability, the appropriateness of the personality as where you, on all three items, fall. As for the takeover bids. Believe me, I know the procedures, but the fact is that the offer to buy 118 thousand 262 shares of Terme Catež, d.d., was offered with a cash purchase, and in your reply to the interpellation, you plead that if you did get [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] A takeover offer, yes, because we both know how to make a takeover offer. You speculated today. I don't know if you're a visionary, but you speculated that the company wouldn't get credit. I've already told you, under what conditions the banks are lending, and your assessment today is irrelevant to me. Since, for the first time, you are not a banking expert, and for the second time, you failed to take into account in your assessment whether this company would receive credit or not, all the relevant parameters that are important for the bank to decide whether or not to give credit to someone. I can list them again, but I believe you know them: the assessment of the investment, the impact of the investment on the company's income, the expected return and so on. So don't get carried away. I have to tell you, you're skilfully bending out of a hat that you've wrapped yourself in. But I sincerely resent your introductory words when you tell me about compensation and criminal liability. That is exactly what I wanted to stress, Mr Minister – that today your political responsibility is being assessed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u141	It's true, Your Honor. Today it is recognised, not that it has already come to light, as you originally started. What my political responsibility will be, you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament will decide. So you give only certain arguments, and my political responsibility has not yet been established – because you initially stated that I am politically responsible. That's one thing. Second thing. You're right. When deciding whether to grant a loan for an investment to someone, a series of economic effects shall be identified. And now you tell me what the economic impact would be if banks gave credit to the State for increasing the share of the investment that it already had for an additional 20%. You have to be a crazy, really crazy banker, and I'm not a banker, but I have a healthy farmer's mind, which means a lot more because bankers have made many mistakes in this country, so we paid dearly and saved the holes. I would never, respectfully, ever give credit to anyone for such a strange business of a company that cannot afford its own income to pay annuity or to pay off the liabilities of the leased loan. This offer was not a take-up offer, it was a purely fake offer, which everyone gladly threw away in the trash because it was not serious.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The replica has Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u143	Just for a little while. Because again, Mr. Secretary, you're wrong. I did not say If you listened carefully, in each of my statements at the point of my discussion I made it very clear that in my opinion your political responsibility has been established. [[…]] Of course, I understand that at the end of the day or even tomorrow morning we will decide by pressing the button on your political responsibility. And believe me, I'm going to press for interpolation. As for the economic effects, the acquisition of credit and so on. All I did was point out, and I'm gonna do it again, that you guys are speculating. In your defense today, when this document came to the public this morning, you turned your tactics and said how you could go to a company with a 40 million-dollar investment, worth 50 million. Before this document was made public, however, you claimed that there was no money supply at all, but that it was only and only some worthless offers of worthless papers. I wanted to stress this in my debate and please be so correct that you are not turning my words maliciously into the facts I am talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, get ready to land Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. In the beginning, I'm going to say that I can count not only to five, but also to about 50 billion, and then I'd probably get tired of maybe being wrong. Second, I would say that both Andrej from Styria and Franz Trcek cannot make anonymous calls to the radio show because they will recognize you and me by voice. In short, Andrej Vizjak, August 6, 1964, Brežice, Slovenia, aged 57. A man of action, a stockholder, which is nothing to be disputed about. Minister Vizjak, you're not just some minister, you're not the minister of some scribbling SMC, and then the eighths of a large SMC have to find someone and bring in some disputed Dikaucic. You are not some digitisation minister who doesn't know until yesterday that it's from their quota, and then it's from their quota. You are essentially Karl Erjavec SDS – Minister for any ministry, Minister for any government of Janša. And now I don't have a problem with the minister going out, and he has to get on the water, according to his household. Let us first touch on a matter that is absolutely not disputed. Before I touch it, I'm going to say that today I met not some tonic technician, but someone who's a forensic who signs it, and he also explained that the videos are authentic. If the minister were in there, if Franz Beznik was in there, we'd know what we're talking about. You know, even the lights work on certain frequencies, and such programs analyze it, and then you can see if it clears up or doesn't clean up. About the glue. You know, I'm getting ready for a meeting to die, by the way. This is where I tear myself apart. Half the sentence may or may not be published. Then each one of us could feel that whatever we're talking about here, she's a glue. Then I might as well be limping when you took my immunity from me and Jelinčič sued me, yeah, that's the glue, wait, it's going, it's over. And then you were in the coalition of the SDS and the Left. I don't blame you. It's more about you than it is about Frank the Duck. Let's go to a matter that is absolutely undeniable. The Minister apologized for the claim “third eggs”. He said it himself. He admitted it. 125th Article of the Constitution, independence of judges. Article 3 of the Constitution, division of power. Article 2 of the Constitution, the rule of law. Article 1 of the Constitution — What is it? The Democratic Republic. Article 110 of the Constitution corresponds to the National Assembly as Minister. 114. Article 114 of the Constitution knows what its tasks are. His task as minister in any three ministries was not to "kill one egg" as it would have been in some cookbook in Croatia, but only the third eggs of the third branch of power. That's why this guy's supposed to back out, dot. That's why. To look at this man here, I have a literally broken child at home, and I should be on sick leave, it's literally someone shitting on Slovenia, shitting on Slovenia's constitutionality, shitting on the rule of law, shit on the Republic of Slovenia. That's enough! Even if there wasn't a story with Petan, even if there wasn't a story with stupid taxes. Second. I waved in 2007, a real minister. The minister was then a minister, right, 2004-2008? What were you doing three years earlier to get the DZS to where it came from? What we today call the Taiwanese wave of Slovenian privatisation, which was possible because the minister and the then Yanšev government held a document in the drawer, a bill that should have prevented it. Fuller had an orator on strengthening public interest – how did you then strengthen your public interest? It's not the minister's job to beat something up in the media these days on Twitter. The task of the minister and of any government is to make this impossible through the relevant legislation, which was written down, which was kept in the drawer and we have falsified the tycoon wave of privatisation. And then we know, banks, and so on and so on, and the other Janša government, and the calling of the troika and the non-bullying statements of the then President of the Government that lowered our ratings and higher interest rates and so on and so on and so forth. These are facts, this is unfortunately our history, hopeless regret, I would say Orator Polnar. Third story, stupid taxes. That's the Minister's statement. When this video came out, did it surprise me? Of course I'm not. This is it, this is Slovenian politics. Maybe on the left-hand side we'd find someone kind of smug, but it's a vivendi mode. Is Janez Janša any different on Twitter? Even those of you who stay in front of the microphone a little nice, you run off there. Uh, assault on women, isn't it? When he was then reticent that the head of the SMC Group should be limping, where were you at that time the great SDS feminists? I don't know. Maybe my colleague Ferrian criticized Janez Jansha on Twitter. I'm not on Twitter, I don't know. Stupid taxes. You know, I went to see the CV of Andre the Visionary. Come on, some childhood goes to Brežica Gymnasium, probably a gentleman in the military, goes to electrofax to study and Litostro, and a young researcher at Joseph Stefan's Institute. Then, if I skip a bit, and the mayor of three governments is the head of the parliamentary group, he's now eight years or how many advisors in the electricity industry. If Mr Vizjak did not ask himself about it at the high school or during his studies – it is better to live hormonally then at 50, which we both are – at least when he was a young researcher, he should start asking questions, a letter, wait, where did these pennies come from for my salary, and then all the careers. Or: where does money come from when I go to the bank to hire a loan to buy shares based on internal information? You won't believe it from us stupid taxpayers. Where does he pay, I don't know, to someone who's been living his whole life since the old regime, and then from the ZSMS he's been elected, your great boss John Janez Janša, where does he get paid? From us stupid taxpayers. And then the minister here wants to make a very unfortunate case so that we can all understand it, based on someone who has a minimum wage. Well, please, that's disgusting. We who have 3 hammers net or what – I don't have – let's let the omice understand, explain it on a minimum wage. But that's you, you know. This is most pronounced by the Member who fought with the former Minister for Fish, who recently said that she and Aleksandra Pivec would go down to the people so that the people would not have to go to the National Assembly. Yeah, that's the opiate of power. Where are you staying, dear God, on some high ground? I don't know what the blue blood is. And of course, they get me with my pants down, everybody else is guilty, just not me. You know, it's some infantile child at the age of two. It's in those lower groups of VVZs that we have to turn socialisation, crack eggs, you'd say. And that's it. And that's what you're going to support, patriots? Bravo. Enjoy as long as you can. It could be a long and wide diagnosing, as we white people say, but I won't. The blind will be blind, blind, deaf, deaf, and deaf. All the way to the end. Fuller was talking about denunciation. The fact that these videos exist, which, by the way, has not been recorded by Petan – if you want to tell who they are, you should close the session – you have known in the SDS for more than 10 years. People there very close to Janez Janša told us in the off of the recording talks that you let him out now, that you will not explode in your face too early before the elections. Enjoy as long as you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Primoz Siter has the word to prepare Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon or good evening, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I would simply rely on a few words that the Minister had already said in his opening statement earlier this morning. First of all, it must be understood that today we are going to interpellate Minister Viszak, not to interpellem Mr Petan or other ministers or former ministers or governments, although they would probably have earned some kind of interpretation or other slap. But today we have the Minister of Vision. The list of reasons why we have interpolation on the table today is a long one, and I'm gonna walk on it myself. But first of all, we need to understand the broadest picture of the political environment and why Minister Visjak works in a way that works. The basic dimension of understanding the state's organisation in capitalism is that the state is in the service of capital or that the a priori is the spoil of capital, that it is the normal mode of the capitalist regime's operation. Public funds and public goods, what communities should always and equally be available, are intended in capitalism to flow into private pockets or into private influences. This is the first dimension of understanding society and political culture in which we are, in which Janez Janša may be the most plastic person. So corruption, meddling, lobbying, business from public to private is normal, capitalism is something that must not be foreign to us or that should not be new to us, or something that we cannot be surprised at. So even if anyone opposes it, look, we'll just crush his balls, there's nothing surprising, not even in the vocabulary and other communication of this government. Colleagues and colleagues, in fact, we should systematically interpret capitalism today, not just Mr Visiak. However, Minister Vizjak and his work are one of the most brutal plastic examples of everything that is wrong with current politics. The general conclusion of civil society and the parliamentary opposition, if you want, is that in this edition the ILO is intertwined with corruption, is intertwined with mixing, with domestically said business rifling, lobbying. This institution, which should be the first defender, the first defensive front, if you want, in protecting the environment, is essentially here in the sales and sales business. Super Minister Vizjak would probably be dealing with the sale at the head of any ministry where he would sit. If he were a health minister, perhaps today we would have three quarters of all health care privatised if he were in agriculture, maybe the state forests would not have any more or anything and so on. I will not be too theoretical to say that the current Ministry of the Environment and Space under the tactics of Minister Viszak is now particularly in one such Gordy intertwine with capital, where capital is at the top and the ministry or the state and the public well below. I will explain on one case, a case I do not think I have yet seen in the debate. Construction of a hydro power plant in the middle of Savi. The thing that has experienced its acceleration since Minister Vizjak has been the head of the Ministry. Large concrete business, to the detriment of the environment, to the detriment of the health of residents and residents in the immediate vicinity. In this matter, be careful, we have basically two key problems. One problem is that the matter is environmentally and naturally controversial, which was pointed out by the long list of environmentalists, naturalists, civil society, the professional public and, of course, the ministry in the traditional manner of the government of Janez Janša did not establish any dialogue with them, just one such communication slap, be quiet, you care about that one fish that will die. Despite the fact that experts have, of course, warned about what such an intervention means for the ecosystem to be wider, not just in the cemented stream. But here we have another problem in this goal, rightly said to him, the business of Minister Visiak, who is called the hydropower plant in the middle of Savi – a corrupt procedure. Now I'm going to try to be as lay as possible. In the ordinary procedure, stakeholders, local communities, the country, environmentalists, the public concerned, the professional public and so on shall be gathered together and, if any such intervention is planned in the environment, collected, collected all heads and formed something called a spatial plan. So the plan is how to put this thing in space now. If it has such negative environmental consequences, it is all the more important. If the public here is so concerned, it's all the more important. And then things are formed, the profession is signed under it, and then there's a business or concession contract to build and so on and so forth. It's in some normal circumstances, a scenario like that. When Minister Vizjak sits at the head of the Ministry of the Environment and the matter turns around, but the contract is signed first, he takes care of business first, and then he starts talking to local communities, and the public at large may be lucky to know what's going on. Plus, when he takes care of business first, and then for the environment, health and consent of people, the public also learns that this contract was made in a very frivolous way, that the state pays the penalty, if it goes with the plan, with the resulting arrangement of something wrong, that the concessionaire can give up if it is delayed if it goes to the detriment of his business, and so on and so on. In short, it's all wrong. And Minister Vizjak is signed under this contract, signed under all this action. Of course, the Administrative Court jumped into the air, of course, the State Auditor jumped into the air, of course, natural security organizations jumped into the air. Fortunately, the public has been informed of this. We sent the Court of Auditors, through the Commission for the supervision of public finances a few days ago, to revise this business, this business for friends, this concrete business for friends. Because we do not want the story of Teš 6 to be repeated in the mid-Savi, as well as in Zasavje, which was first evaluated, I think, at 20 million, it ended at 1.4 billion euros. We don't want another project like this, but Minister Vizjak sent it on the air, sent it into reality, exactly that kind of project. The supremacy has already paid a lot of environmental taxes in the past, it does not deserve another such case, and the Republic of Slovenia does not deserve such handling with environmentally controversial projects as this one another copy-paste action Taš 6. This, colleagues and colleagues, is one of the cases of domestically-soldiering businesses that Minister Vizjak has afforded in his short term. I regret to note that, as Minister Vijak does, in the form of state-owned and public funds, in the form of public finances, which are basically ours and for our public good, in the same way handles the environment, which is also ours and here for our public good, for public use and the quality of our stay, so to speak, our greatest good that we have and that we manage. This greatest good, of course, is freely sold to its friends in some legally unsupported concession contracts. This is the primary school of corruption, only that Minister Vizjak here is a professor. Which, of course, is worth a conviction, absolutely worth interpolating, speeding up some other bars. The ultimate solution that we have been defending in Levica all the time is of course of a systemic nature. In Levica, we propose that the referendum institute call off the official, if there is no trust, becomes a reality, there is no reason for a function if there is no trust. How many people trust the character and work of Minister Visiak, I think the most plastic has shown the summer referendum on the Water Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, it's Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I mentioned earlier in my debate the achievements of the Ministry and the Minister. Of course, I also mentioned the project of hydroelectric power plants in Central Sava. I do not know whether the Member before me has forgotten that his colleague, Luka Mesec, in 2014, has asked the question of the Member with very special requests for this project to be launched as soon as possible in the Central Sava. So Levica supports this project, supported it, and apparently still supports it. He wanted to ask himself this question, or after he received the answer later — I’ll just quote. Luka Mesec: »In fact, for a short time. With regard to hydropower plants in Central Savi, I am interested in when these projects could be launched or when they could be completed and when we can expect the first jobs there.” So the great concern of Left for the early construction of hydroelectric power plants in the middle of Savi, so you would suggest that you talk to each other and somehow coordinate, before you speak each other in your own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I have a duty to draw your attention to Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater, as far as this debate relates to his debate. What Mr Siter said did not refer to your debate. I know we've been here for hours, but let's follow the rules of procedure we have. And that goes for you, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Monica has the word [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] How? There's no replica on the replica, there's gonna be a time-sharing, you'll have a chance. Monica Gregorčič has the floor to prepare Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Good evening, everyone! The interpretation that we are dealing with all day and all late in the night, perhaps even by the early morning of the next day, is the eighth in a row by the same candidates, the so-called KUL coalition. I'd like to ask you if you still have hope. Otherwise, it is really nice that hope dies last, but sometimes it is necessary to pour pure wine, face reality, and admit that this is more Sisyphus’s work than it is. Initially, I would like to highlight the legal framework of the Institute of Interpellation. It is indeed an institution of opposition governed by Article 118 of the Constitution, which says that at least 10 Members can initiate interpretation in the National Assembly of the work of the government or of the individual minister. It is also governed by Article 250 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First paragraph, I quote: "At least ten Members may submit an interpretation of the work of the government or of an individual minister, in which a clear and reasoned question must be raised which is the subject of interpretation. Interpellation shall be signed by all Members who have submitted it.” The positive interpretation of legal standards, of course, suggests that it is an interpretation of the work of the Minister of Current Government, of the current minister, of his ongoing activities, and not of the role and observations relating to his work in, I don't know, the past, the previous ones, or how many mandates back. Why am I warning you this? Because the interpretation that we are considering today consists of four points of reading. The first point is to make it clear to the Minister that the Minister is acting unlawfully and untransparently to the detriment of the State. The explanation of this point, which relates to 90% of his position as Minister of Economy in the 2004-2008 mandate, is quite a few mandates back, I think four or five mandates back. That's why I think it's irrelevant that we talk about this today. Of course, you needed to find a second, third and fourth points after that, which both refer to the Minister's findings regarding the failure of the amendment of the Water Act, which was tested at the referendum. Human will has shown that it has not passed this test and has failed. And now you've just somehow concluded that because of this, the minister should just go away on his own, but if you're not trying to remove him with this interpolation and prevent him from doing any further work. I am certainly asking you here, as the Minister has already explained to you, list, how many ministers have already resigned because they lost the referendum because of a failed marriage. If we go back to the first reading. Nevertheless, illegal, untransparent conduct under the 2004-2008 mandate. Specifically. The day came illegal recordings of talks between Minister Visiak and Mr Petan in the so-called matter of management acquisition or internal redemption of the property of Terme Catež. What did these videos really show? Today, the Minister had the opportunity and explained that it was almost criminal governance of state property by parastata, by the background structures, some mode of operation of the creation or strengthening the role of transition tycoons with internal repurchase, with disputed business practices represented by financing by the acquisition company. Above all, we have heard today that this has not yet resulted in the payment of the tax, as provided for in the rules and corporate law. And even by avoiding the payment of water concessions. On top of all this, of course, all of this is now being used by some media manipulation to present the matter in a different light, and in fact it is about maintaining the status quo. Here, several times later, it was pointed out that this debate today shows that Mr Petan is also on the interpellation. But Mr Petan is a collateral damage to the fact that these images of mutual conversation with Mr Vissiak have even come out to the public, and that was, of course, the ability to predict in advance. That is why it may have been waiting so long for these recordings to be made public. The result of all this insinuates that it's an affair of stupid taxes. The Minister made it clear today and explained that this affair was not at all about the design and the glue on the first release of the first clip. What is more sad, however, is that today Terme Catež is a company that is more or less living, or that they are not the gazelle of Slovenian tourism than it could have been if there had not been some inadequate internal exhaustion and ownership in a way that certainly has not contributed to the greater competitiveness of this company. Next, the interpretation is clear to the Minister of the disputed adoption or the proposal for a new Water Act. It is clear that he was not sufficiently environmentalally aware that he excluded the professional public, the dialogue and that he was taking decisions to the detriment of the environment, not only in the matter of the amendment of the Water Act, but also in the area of construction legislation, but also in the field of waste management, which is currently in place during this recent period, as there is a re-regulation in preparation. Of course, the readings are, in fact, paradoxical. The Minister only wants to make order in this area. Of course, it is those who want to maintain the status quo in order to retain some of the privileges acquired in the times of some other ministers or other governments. This is the game that basically plays in the background, including through the help and access to certain media speakers, which are capital-related. In the foreground, there is a show for people, and playing on their emotions, including some really fake eco-bio propaganda, and in the background, of course, it is the real game, the game of interests and the euro. I would just like to shed some light on one of the things that really impressed my memory today. The point is that the LMŠ proposalr or I think that the LMŠ position has been exposed to the expectation that someone entering politics will operate over one mandate. I thought it was a joke. In fact, the perception in this direction by the party, which is for the first time in Parliament at the national level, to a minister who has been active in politics for four, five, I think six mandates is a bit bizarre. So I recommend a little more self-criticism when next time you'll be addressing these findings. You have even allowed yourself, about LMŠ I am talking about today to write a very meaningful tweet: “When you go into politics, you need to have a clear clearance of what is public and what is private. Above all, you must have a clear view of the public interest.” I couldn't agree more with the writing. However, I recommend that you address such advice also to those who are predestined to become a new face in the Slovenian political space. This will be more in your survival interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Again, one and the same. No minister had previously resigned if he lost his referendum — all the time the same bitch today. Then some relativization of the videos, czech, the problem is the illegality of the videos, my people, the problem is not content. That's amazing. But, Your Honor, look, we're on our way. The Minister is the same person he was 14 years ago. I'm guessing he's the same person or something. We're talking about the integrity of a policy. Integrity. Integrity is the key when you occupy a high position in politics, even when you occupy a ministerial office or the post of prime minister, right? Even when you occupy the seat of a Member, but this is some kind of rank, the Minister must be a man of integrity. Hearings, if you tell them a hundred times that they are illegal, clearly show that it was some kind of negotiation, how to take over a state company, how to avoid paying "stupid taxes" and how to “stretch eggs” to judges. Pika. That's what we heard on our own ears. Whatever you say, mounted up or down, the minister's voice says so. I recognized the minister's voice. Unless they found such a good actor. I'm telling you. But the minister didn't deny it. He didn't say he didn't speak. Something got out and he apologized for those eggs and so on. So it was the minister. Well, a man with the integrity of such things doesn't say, that kind of business doesn't go that way, 14 years ago, 30 years ago or today. Today it's the same Mr. Andrej Vizjak. Today, he runs a different ministry than then, and unfortunately, all the other elements of interpretation show this, he acts like he's still an economic minister. Now you're going to say what I'm saying here when I'm talking about integrity. It's in the code of ethics for officials, respected. I didn't make that up. It's not my imagination. This is some standard in some advanced, advanced democracies. If we look around other countries, ministers, even ministerial presidents, give up for much smaller things. They're just giving up. The fact that once the ministers did not resign when they received plebiscite interpretation at the referendum is none of my business today or your business or the matter of this minister. It is sad that this happened at the time, and if we were in Parliament at the time, we would also insist that that minister or minister resigns. Pika. If the hearings are illegal now – see, this referendum is enough. This referendum is a plebiscite decision, 680,000 people have given no confidence to the minister. This means that when the Minister loses the confidence of the people, it no longer contributes to the reputation of the Government or to the reputation of the state, and this is already the basis for him to lose some integrity and leave the position of someone who will raise and repair that reputation. Pika. Simple! I don't know if we want to raise political standards and political culture in this country, or if we want to say all the time what was once, once, and then another 100 years, 200 years, 500 years. So we wouldn't move anywhere, because once Joseph did this, Pepe can do the same thing today, can't he? That's not how it works, Your Honor. It doesn't matter what Bohinc used to do, but I don't know who you mentioned today. It's important what Minister Vizjak is doing today. Today. And interpolation in most of the elements is based on today's time. These hearings came along just showing, proving this mode of action, which is to be partly understood in ongoing projects. Now there is a Member of the Dblekar, who is saying something to some oral question of the month of 2014 Luke Mesca. Porta Mesec did not set up an initiative, but asked the oral question of what is happening to these hydropower plants. That is why we will not now question what Luka Mesec asked as a new Member in 2014, but I think we need to address the irregularities that are taking place today with these hydropower plants, as my colleague Siter pointed out in his debate, as pointed out by the Administrative Court and the State Auditor. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, he warns, these are the ongoing projects with which you boast. Everything stinks! Without public participation, the contract shall first be signed at the expense of public funds, the reverse order of the procedure as it should be carried out shall be carried out. It's like signing a contract before spatial plans, and then you start blackmailing: if we don't, we're gonna pay the pens if we don't, and then you push, you push on all those people you didn't ask before, and you should ask them first, and then you should go ahead. [[…]] It is called a perfectly broken order, a ruined procedure and it is illegal, respected and respected. The State Auditor points out this, the Administrative Court points out. What's more than corruption? And you're messing around here, and you're blaspheming and telling us that we're making up ourselves, and that this interpolation is a structure, and everything is a structure, and everything is a structure, and everything is a structure, and you're pure and innocent and angels themselves. Really, that's been a bit of a tasteless, repulsive thing. Don't be shy. If you will support that such a minister will continue to be the minister who gives a picture of all of you, then at least be quiet and do not be ashamed of such truly repulsive things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Replica, Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the proposer did not understand me well or did not hear the opening part of my debate. I don't think it was even in the hall. I have highlighted and cited the business and constitutional provisions precisely because the findings of this interpolation are mostly based on the events of 14 years ago, while the interpolation, I think, is an institute to verify or manifest irregularities to the current minister. After all, the current minister is ahead of us now. You want to relieve him of his role as Minister of the Environment, not as Minister of the Economy of this period 14 years ago. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Very dangerous is your rhetoric when you say it doesn't matter whether the videos are illegal or not, that all that matters is content. You know what? Of all the political representatives, such rhetoric is such that they are aroused by the fundamental demands of the rule of law, which is full of mouths, which is frightening. I'm really afraid you actually want to interpret democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Now we have two candidates. The first one is Rudy Bear, and later it's you. He used to raise his hand. Here you go, Mr. Rudy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much. But I understood SMC's point of view, but it's true that she doesn't understand the interpretation. And it would be good before you share the lefties around you, how the interpolation is written, but I've set the business there to read it at all. To read it. That would be a start. I know you can't read this, but it's a sample. You know, we're not talking about a 14-year-old period, except this famous video was the trigger. Everything else is about the current work of this government. To the current work of this government. However, the sample is transmitted from the first government of Janez Janš. This is a very laboratory case of how this government works then in the next short term and, of course, in this short but, of course, so much stronger. If you take a closer look, you'll see what the meaning of this interpolation really is. When you advise the LMŠ, I think you have advised that we should teach those who are now taking part in politics about what is public interest and the importance of public interest – we are not going to teach those who are now taking part in politics, but we are certainly here because even if we are only one mandate as before, it is obvious that "those who are here for the first time are practically only in one term, nor do you have the right to report to a minister since he has already been three times a minister, now it is the third time". [[…]] So we don't even have a right?Oh, my God! We got her, you know. And that's what we're talking about. We are talking about the harmful functioning of the Minister for the Environment. We have also justified this several times today. Then you will advise new faces on how to behave as regards public interest. Not long ago, when you were yourself a new face — who then advised you?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The second representative of the proposer, Natasa Sukić, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u159	Your Honor, I see you really don't understand what integrity means. Because if you have Minister Dikaucic in the government, who is alone in criminal proceedings, and you don't find that controversial, he says, you think his integrity is top, then it's logical that you still have no idea today that these videos indicate whether the minister has any integrity or not. “Unlawful recordings”, “we are not a court” – I do not know if these recordings are legal, illegal, but I know what they are saying. And it is our duty to come from a content that burdens the minister and shows that man does not have the right integrity to do so. After all, that's what your coalition colleagues from NSI said today. So that you may flip the video a little bit, and listen to their attitude today so that you do not resort to us today. Otherwise, the question is, Minister, because it's already that late. Do you have the documents yet? You said you'd have them in half an hour to finally tell me exactly what Simonovic's law firm was doing. How much exactly did this cost and why did you keep this activity out of line with this company? Why didn't you just leave it to the Ministry employees? I think you have a huge machine, people are on the payroll, and taxpayers actually shouldn't have to stand for anything else, but you did go into this action. I want to know the answer to all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word is given by Minister Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u161	It is true, Your Honor, that I owe you this answer. We paid Neffat for its services EUR 7 000 600 for legal support in connection with the preparation of amendments to the ILO work area. In doing so, they have made a legal review of certain legal acts, legal assistance in the preparation of solutions and legal opinions on provisions and emerging legislation in the field of ILO.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Representative of the proposer, Nataš Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u163	What specific solutions, Minister? That's what I want to know. There is an opinion in the public that these solutions around the legalisation of black construction were part of these solutions, and please tell us in more concrete terms. And once again, why didn't your associates do it at the ILO? I take it you have capable men there, don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u164	There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u165	As part of the preparation of the regulations, we want to integrate the broadest knowledge, in addition to the expertise we have at the ILO, including external colleagues for specific areas, and in this particular case, the lawyer company has not participated.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Mr Leon Merjasec has the floor to prepare Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Today's interpolation, as well as all the previous ones in this mandate, is a continuation of the political struggle. We don't have anything to play around here. But it's against this government that works well and works for people. With regard to the Law on Waters and the Minister's direct responsibility, I can say that the references to the referendum on water have deceived people by simply saying that the proposed law is pure drinking water, which is not true. Which one of us is not for clean, drinking, unprivatized water? The proposed law dealt with the administrative burden or termination of existing longer-term procedures, while at the same time decommissioning the parties financially and time-consuming, i.e. water land interventions and coastal land interventions. The proposed law would provide an opportunity to increase funds for the implementation of the economic public service to manage water through the Water Fund. These financial means sought to reduce the damage, financial pressure on citizens, real estate, infrastructure, agricultural land generated by the so far unsustainable management of watercourses and increasing weather conditions. The proposed law also provided a condition to ensure that no source of drinking water should be affected. This would protect all sources of drinking water, as it has so far been, in the case of the proposed law. The Minister himself stated in his statement that the people's resources expressed in the referendum respected, but still assessed that the novel Water Act had fallen good and useful for the protection of coastal and water lands, in particular tourism, which I agree with. Therefore, the Minister's findings on the threat of drinking water are unfounded and misused for political purposes. The Ministers of Interpellation also find that the Minister of Economy is not true, as the Minister of the Environment in his work proves to be protecting the environment, promoting development for the present and future generations, enabling them to live healthy and quality lives with new jobs, new production and service facilities, green transitions to energy, digitisation, better infrastructure, flood protection, new systems of drainage and waste water treatment, new water and many other investments, which have an important message for investors who want to invest in environmentally acceptable projects in the field of environment, transport infrastructure, energy, health and other important areas. In order to be resolved, the signatories also rely on the 14 - year - old illegal hearings that have come to the public only now. I'm really surprised, and I'm wondering why these hearings weren't used when he was Minister of Economy. Such acts, spoken words, raise questions for me. For example, with regard to the statement made by our fellow Member, Violeta Tomić, who recently stated that covid is treated with ivermectin when she is ill. This is an animal medicine to be obtained on veterinary prescription. We can ask ourselves how she got it, where she got it, and who gave it to her. Let's not ask ourselves about shopping on the black market and other questions. With this statement, I can conclude that it urges citizens to be treated past the profession, which is very dangerous not to say the word spoken many times today – stupid. It might be good to address this issue at least on the Health and Agriculture Committees. Colleagues and colleagues, each of us has already said something that was appropriate in the said case, a few years later, and in other circumstances completely wrong and used to undermine the reputation of all of us. I don't think that's acceptable. That is why, Mr Minister, I can only say thank you for the work you will be doing so far and for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u169	Dear President, I ask that when you see someone moving away from the topic of interpretation and abuse of this Chamber in such an insulting and unseemly way, this assembly, this interpretation for some sort of calculation on a purely x level, stop it, as Mr Tanko stops it. Every time we say something else about a millimeter, even if it's in the context. And that went across every border, so I'm really asking you to run this session the way you have to run it. Really, 'cause this is way too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you for your procedural proposal. As soon as the debate opened before me, they left a broad debate. Let me tell you that if anyone is moving away from the agenda, you are, my dear colleague, you are, and I have already warned you about this today. To get me involved, you're wrong. Let's move on. Lidija Dijak Mirnik has the word [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Siter, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u171	Dear Vice President, here we go. Today we are talking about the interpretation of Mr Visionak. His work is controversial. His work and his mandate are intertwined with corruption, intertwined with allowing his friends to do business by concreteling nature. That's the problem we have on the table today. I have been following this whole debate since 10 a.m., there has been no departure from the debate, so to speak. I think that we Members have so far been relatively disciplined in speaking up to one in defense, the other in criticism of Minister Viszak, which is a perfectly normal practice at such meetings of the National Assembly. What we've seen here is a total material shift and a personal discredit of a man who isn't even here. Perhaps the colleague disagrees with the Member, and perhaps the rest of us do not agree with the Member, but he has no opportunity to defend himself and has no opportunity to give his opinion, and this has nothing to do with the machinations that are intertwined with the work of Minister Visiak. So, Mr Vice-President, you are on stage, you are the one who can remind Members and Members of Parliament in what way to signify their debate that they will be substantively on the point. So please don't be there at the table for decoration, but be the chairman of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u172	Dear Mr Siter, when I was in charge two hours ago, if you've listened to everything, I asked you, all Members, let's stick to the content. And I want us to stick to that. But it has to apply to everyone, not to one. I do not want to share any, but I appeal to everything, as I said before, that we also respect Article 8 of the Code of Ethics and that we respect our rules of procedure. Let's stick to the content and stick to it. However, since the debate has, of course, been very wide since 10 a.m. in the morning, I am somehow putting you all together to try to stick to the content. It would be very unfair of me if my predecessors had allowed a broad debate that I was restricting it now. And I'm not gonna do that. I appeal to you to stick to the rules of procedure. Natasha Sukich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u173	Your Honor, this was not a broad debate, it was an insult to a non-member of the National Assembly, and this Member is today not subject to interpretation, and this insult has absolutely no connection either in the wider, widest possible debate on this interpretation. No, no connections. I therefore ask you to give this Member a warning on a procedural basis. That would be the rules of procedure. You just don't do that. And I, when you told me that I was going wide — not a bit. Today, I've absolutely kept my mouth shut all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u174	I'm not going to follow your procedural proposal. But I recommend you listen to the magnetogram if you forget what you said. I suggest we move on. Lidija Dijak Mirnik has a word to prepare Jura Ferjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greeting or good evening, Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We've been here since 10:00 in the morning, listening to the debate. A lot of things have been said, but there are still some things that need to be said, namely, this debate will last for 17 hours. Every time the government changes in the Republic of Slovenia, we rightly expect voters to follow at least some basic ethical, democratic principles in order to respect Slovenian legal order and the Constitution. This is what we have done in the government led by Mr Marjan Sarec. But today we have a slightly different picture. With some arguments, I will try to prove and demonstrate the functioning or model of this government, which works for people. For all those viewers who are watching us, let me just repeat who is making up this coalition and who are the supporters of this coalition and this government that works for people. These are SDS, NSI, SMC with the support of Desus, SNS and minorities. What exactly does this government do? It shamelessly demolishes the rule of law and democratic foundations, destroys the stability of public finances and credits our grandchildren with the poofs it has made. It also violates human rights and terrorizes the nation today with such, tomorrow otherwise decrees, which are still illegal at the top of everything, and this is what the Constitutional Court says every day, even today. It subjugates the public media – we've seen what, we're watching RTV. With the pressure on the third - egg trial, with perjury – this way pressure on the third branch of power. It destroys and despises civil society and NGOs. It carries out harmful foreign policy. Lower standards of communication, insults people, insults cops, insults journalists that the trumpets that produce a new lie every day are not what I'm talking about. And for a peak on the i, this government team has taken samples of the operation of the tycoons, against whom it has been fighting for 30 years – this is, of course, just a performance for the public, actually talking to them, talking on yachts and golf courses. And this is the difference between the LMSH and these parties operating in this coalition and, of course, their loyal supporters. We are aware of our responsibilities in the LMŠ. We are also aware of the responsibilities to succeeding generations, and we are also aware of the responsibilities to the environment and our goods, which must also remain for the craftsmen. Therefore, in the LMŠ, my opposition colleagues and I have proposed to interpellate against the harmful functioning of the environmental minister and, therefore, all day today, to discuss the untransparent functioning of the minister to the detriment of the state, the alias of the affair of the stupid tax, including the Petrol shares, including the Water Act, also the impoverishable attitude towards the outcome of the referendum. That just confirms the pattern I was talking about. Even more horrifying today was listening to coalition partners and their views. In presenting the position of NSI – Christian Democrats today, I felt as if we were interpreting a gentleman named Bojan Petan. As far as I know, he's not the Minister of the Environment in this government, I don't even know if he's ever been. Probably not. However, Mr Vizjak, Minister for the Environment in this Government, has sworn to act in accordance with Article 104 of the Constitution. He swore he'd do it. But apparently he forgot that oath very quickly. In some ways, however, I understand how he is trying to explain to people here today, why he is actually saying one thing and he is doing another. They have read his prosthetic terms and ended with a sentence, and I quote: “Minister Vizjak no longer enjoys our support.” “Minister Vizjak enjoys more of our support.” A man would cry, how abandoned, and that was a Christian thing to say. And what did they do? Nothing. Nothing and once again a happy nothing. Do you know what it's called? Hypocrisy. And I'm going to quote you and Fran on what hypocrisy means. This is “the knowledge or the speaking of someone who appears to be honest, good, even though it is not true”, the end of the line. Because they will defend their chairs and cooperate in this government to its bitter end and explain that they will not destroy governments because they save lives. By the way, over 5,000,500 people died at the time they were saving lives with those slightly worse golfs or what they were told, with those rest masks from the secret paper. At the same time, of course, in the Christian Democrats, they will hope that voters will forget this misbehaviour and duplicity. In the meantime, they'll be tweeting how the opposition is to blame for everything anyway. When the representative of NSI in her position said so epicly that the Minister no longer enjoys their support, we were all listening to it, or perhaps a large majority of us understood that he was telling us that the Minister had to leave. However, I am afraid that we have misunderstood this a little bit because obviously they have adapted their Christian values in NS. You know, that — let us adjust Christian values if necessary. We don't blind ourselves in LMŠ to support interpolation in NS. We believe that they will abstain because this is exactly the same as if they were voting against it. This is probably not what they hope for because they have already received that message from the President of the Government, which means if they vote against and violate the coalition treaty. I understand that in principle. The Coalition Treaty simply stated that they would not support the interpretations. But then you say it clearly and loudly, but you're not doing one thing, you're saying one thing, but you're doing another. Since we are talking about Christian Democrats, I would like to quote the first letter to the Corinthians from the Scriptures. I quote: “All things are lawful,” but not all benefits! “All things are lawful to me”, but I will not be in charge of any matter!” I am allowed everything, but it does not benefit — this sentence actually sums up all of Paul’s morals. It is no longer a matter of knowing what is permitted and what is forbidden, but of determining what promotes or harms the growth of a new person. First in writing to the Corinthians. I believe that in NSa – Christian Democrats, everyone knows this because they tell us all the time. What exactly did she have to do? This is something that values relationships as a result of understanding good and bad, even from the point of view of the bearer, for example, Christian morality. Unfortunately, however, these minimum Christian morals are obviously not in this government and not in these coalition partners because they speak one but work another. And they actually prove that almost every day. Of course, they hope that people will forget this before the elections. Because in the meantime, of course, they will blame everything for their actions. Of course, we are first in the opposition because we are so ugly and destroy this government, and it is how it fights for life. Then the next is, you know, civil society, journalists, even journalists on independent media, and they're the biggest magpies. Everyone's a scoundrel, everyone else is guilty, everyone else is guilty, just this government and this coalition is nothing. I would not like to comment on all that the minister had done at the referendum when he suffered such a defeat as he had experienced and, in fact, the entire coalition was talking to him, because I think he almost had it, and because I think he's underestimating people. Even what we are hearing today from the coalition Members here, that we were all misled and that we all misunderstood and that we are all not saying stupid because we do not understand and we did not understand everything that happened in the referendum, that seems to me, you know, very much underestimation of people. History has already shown that if a person underestimates humans, he will be avenged in the future. So I suggest you stop underestimating people. And just for closure. Today we will decide on the political responsibility of Minister Andrej Visiak. It's about political responsibility. Because Minister Andrej Vizjak is a politician and on behalf of the policy he performs this task in one way or another. In LMŠ, we think he's doing it badly. That is why, of course, we will vote in favour of interpolation in the LMŠ and we will vote in favour of the political responsibility of the policy. Because when a politician takes political responsibility, he shows how great he is and shows that he is willing to admit his mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrjan" and Jože Lenart is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u177	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear High Council, Minister of Environment and Space! Today, we have heard something that has somehow entered our memory by this hour, even though there has been a few hours of debate behind us. On the part of her colleague, Natasa Sukič, we have heard something like this: that we are not here today to listen to what the Minister has accomplished during his term of office. On the one hand, nothing surprising, for in KUL, in Levica you are not used to talking about your results and achievements, because you do not have them. Today, too, we are here to say what the Minister has done during this time and to further highlight this and further highlight it. Given that your only programme is interpolation, of course the minister can take this opportunity to say what he did in his time of ministry, and that is quite a bit. Of course, this is not unusual, because not only today, but also in recent months, a year and a half, we have listened to only demolition and opposition by the KUL, and at this time the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the leadership of Janez Janša, the ministers and ministers of this government, as well as members of the coalition, we work, walk on the ground and solve the real problems of people. If we look at the last few years, you in Levica have not been so long ago even a supercoalyst party, but you have no concrete achievements, concrete results to be commended for. That government has them, and that's why we're going to talk about them today. It's no wonder, because the money went back then to study how to do something, how to do something, how to do something, and we're giving money, 10 million euros to manage watercourses. You have given this money for studies, probably especially to those who have favored you, to those who have then, at this time in the opposition, seriously attacked the current government and collapsed where the collapse was made. This Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Environment and Space, has approved over 50 smaller and larger investment projects totalling around EUR 400 million, for water supply, sewage systems, flood security, notably from the DDR, i.e. agreement for the development of the regions. Those who have dealt with local policy in one way or another, you probably know this matter and know how important it is for local development. The EUR 107 million in the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which contributes significantly to water supply projects and the removal and treatment of waste water, must also be highlighted. The preparation and adoption of regulations have also been substantially accelerated under Minister Visiak. If we look at the period from March 2020 to today, up to November 2021, five regulations have been adopted and more than 20 have been adopted in preparation. You probably also agree that the protection of water resources is one of the preconditions for providing clean drinking water. Sanitation of the watercourses. You know, in this area too, you have fallen asleep in the past. Just as you fell asleep in investing in nursing homes, as you fell asleep in investments in Slovenian health, Slovenian education, Slovenian kindergartens, primary school, so you fell asleep in the rehabilitation of watercourses. But that's changing now. This government has ensured that 10 million will be allocated each year to this area and that these things will be settled. Those who live in flood - risked or sensitive areas are certainly well aware of what it means to have things handled well in preventive actions or not only when something happens when a natural disaster strikes, things need to be rectified, and what harm this can bring. I am pleased that damage has started to be done both on the premises, on many stories where damage has been caused by the captures over the past decade, as well as on certain matters where preventive matters need to be regulated, so that, if there is a catch, the damage is not so great. This government, this minister, is proof that even in the field of environment and space in Slovenia things are moving, but of course if money instead of concrete projects, you prefer to make concrete investments for studies, how something can or cannot be done, then probably money is running out for what you can see in reality. In this mandate, we have increased funds to maintain watercourses of more than EUR 25 million per year. Specifically for this year, which is due to expire in 2021, for the first time, the regular maintenance programme was over €28 million. It is also clear that after 16 years of negotiation, a concession contract for the production of electricity on the Central Sava was reached. We can agree, and probably also proposers, that using environmentally friendly renewable energy sources should reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve flood safety. An integrated territorial investment mechanism is being implemented and 20 contracts have been signed since 2020 with a total value of more than €69 million. Also in the area of beach rehabilitation, 154 beaches were rehabilitated, or 78 different municipalities, with a total value of €25.5 million. The Ministry of Environment and Space is also active in the field of demobilization. You know that this is an important project of the current government of the Republic of Slovenia, which makes life easier for all who work and live in Slovenia. Deregulation has been carried out in the field of environmental impact assessment, reducing the case by 30%, and which is also very important – without damaging the environment. Landfills and rehabilitations are being actively closed, in line with the coalition commitment, an inventory of potentially polluted areas, which are located there in Slovenia around 550. It is also right to highlight the area of climate change. Two concrete climate change management programmes have been adopted, so we are talking about the Climate Change Fund spending programme in 2021-2023 and Slovenia's Long-term Climate Strategy. At the Ministry of the Environment and Space, housing legislation was also revised and, according to estimates by 2026, at least 5,000 additional public rental apartments were provided, which we were able to hear a lot about in recent months by the KUL opposition, but when you had scissors and canvas in your hands, you did nothing in this area. Speaking of specific legislative matters, the Ministry of Environment and Space has also been active in this area. In particular, I can point out the Law on the Regulation of Space and the Construction Law, which bring quicker and better cheaper and more digitised solutions to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. He would point out that the Pomeranian Spatial Plan of Slovenia was adopted, with which for the first time in Slovenia, strategic planning for sustainable development of activities and uses at sea was introduced after independence. In the last few minutes, I have mentioned more than 10 concrete achievements of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the current Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of environment and space. That is why I will point out here once again, and today this has been repeatedly stressed – about all that I have just said, obviously today should not be spoken at all, for this is irrelevant, respected and respected. All that matters is that the current government is maligned to malign the current minister. And that's what matters. And that's what matters. I can understand the opposition at one point because there is no program because there is no content to concentrate solely on criticism and profanity and so on. But in the coalition, in this government, which is active, walking on the ground that solves people's real problems, we have the results for what we do, and we are happy to present these results and these results are also visible in the field. No matter how hard you try in the opposition and how you make lies through your mainstream speakers, you create them yourself, these results are visible in the field, and people know this very well. Minister, today you have repeatedly called on the opposition's colleagues to have the same vats for everyone. I think this call is very much in place, but the Left, the KUL opposition, at least that's how I look at it – if I say so in this jargon, their natural habitat are double criteria. This is what they live and create, and today they are also discussing. In the context of these double criteria, they also wrote an interpellation against you, including the interpretation that awaits us on Monday, as well as the past interpretations that we have witnessed. It's just another design, what they do well or think they're doing well. Even today, one cannot get rid of the feeling that some really dream about this April 24th. But I have some sort of appeal to all of this that you're very afraid of on April 24th, at least most of the KULs. You know, in the last days, there's obviously an open season of sent-off deadlines and birds from one nest are flying into another nest, but we probably all know that regardless of the replacement of the nests of these birds on April 24th, most of them will have to fly out of this nest again. To avoid being so abstract, allow me one specific case. I think that, for example, from the List of Marjan Šarc, there is certainly the best chance to elect a colleague, Jani Möderndorfer, only, in my opinion, under a second brand that flies slightly better than LMŠ. Personally, I would like to say that I will not support the interpretations against the Minister for Environment and Space, Minister Visiak. In this place, I would also advise today's proponents to perhaps devote themselves more to the content, to their programme and to their presentation and to some directions for the future, to what solutions in the future, how citizens and citizens will live better, better and, of course, economic development will be better, more successful, that Slovenia will flourish as a society and as a successful economic country. Here I will touch on another concrete case which, I will say, in a way today, inspired not so long ago when a fellow Member, Mrs Tina Hefferle, said something to the Minister in terms of words or actions, because this is all about the same. I'm going to show this mistake that it's not all the same. For example, you in the List of Marjan Šarca have written that you are for lower wage taxation, that you are for workers to have higher wages and so on, but you are against the novelty of the Income Law, which brings higher wages to all those who work and create in Slovenia, higher welfare. This is the gap, on the one hand, the words spoken or written, but on the other hand there are concrete actions when it is necessary to make a decision. So it's not the same for the coalition, for this government words and actions are not the same. We stick to this, at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we can see in the last year and a half, in the last almost two years, we have done what we have promised. And we'll be there by the end of the term. There's still a few months left. If we take another step forward. I have a feeling you won't follow this advice. Nevertheless, as a result of me, 10 more interpolations can be completed by the end of the term, as today's interpolation is a good opportunity to highlight the results that this minister and this government have made both in the legislative field and in certain projects and investments, as well as in the field work, so it will also be an opportunity on Monday. I am sure that, after today's interpretation and even after Monday's interpretations and any possible interpretations that follow in this mandate, people will remember, above all, that this government is working, working for people, working for a higher welfare, that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of Janez Janša, this government coalition, which has been destroyed for a year and a half, works and builds for the good of people, for the well-being of people, and unfortunately you can't out of your own skin and still, despite the epidemic, destroy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u178	Ms Nataša Sukič, representative of the proposalant, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u179	Dearly respected, it's 7:37 p.m., we're obviously in the middle of it on Nova24 TV, so I'm now joining in with this primate and I'd like to comment on the standards of this working government. I'm the right minister to operate according to the standards of this government. We have no doubt about that. To undermine environmental standards of policy, state, partisan, corrupt, harmful, non-transparent and even illegal conduct, the Minister of Justice, who is on his own in criminal proceedings for tax evasion, also seems stupid to him, as well as other ministers who should have stepped down a long time ago. Respected and respected, this is what the government of Janez Janša, who works. And, of course, it's logical that the Minister is acting in accordance with the standards of this government. A government that imagines the country is its prey. As a blender with public companies, you also mix with the environment and nature, says the public good. You don't care at all that it's public property of all of us, that it's public goods. The modus operandi of this government is literally framed by the statement made by Minister Visiak. I quote, "We're already going to blow the judge's balls." A statement from the affair of stupid taxes. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u180	Jože Lenart has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you for your word on this long session today. However, the Minister, from the three times Minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, also the Secretary of State, Mayor and Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, would expect a moral, responsible, respectful attitude towards work, to people, to the environment and, of course, to the taxes from which all this comes. The topic is taxes, of course, created by people, we create them for a safe and easier life for our common good. In the debate, I will come from our necessary common taxes, according to yours, Minister, “stupid” taxes, of course, in noodles that need to be controlled by egg rubs, even by a judge, by breaking bones, and what we have heard, even from the media I have picked up certain cases. What I'm saying, what I've just said, I read today from the free encyclopedia, what you've been, where you've been, where you've been, and then I'm surprised you don't have a better attitude. Today, you have pointed out several times that what was written in the media, what we heard from these hearings, is not true. But here, in the free encyclopedia, it's nice to say. If this is not true, you must make sure that this is corrected or deleted. It says: “The visor told the householder that paying taxes would be stupid. At first, the minister said that the tape was glued and, with additional audiences, confirmed that the recordings were genuine.” I've read this so you won't tell me that I'm saying something that's not true, which you've repeatedly stressed today. I don't know, at least that's how it's public record. How are responsible democratic countries financed from taxes? I want to do this on purpose, this is what the European Commission has written down, some of these things, and I will tell you the facts, and I want you to tell me whether you are sticking to this or not. “Because they ensure the sustainability of public finances, for the right to provide basic health care for all.” For us, in Slovenia this is all the more important because we have such a system that everyone has access to health care. “Providing education, sports.” Here too is Slovenia, I will say, socially and democratically very advanced. “Guarantee of well-deserved pensions.” Very important, because in these well-deserved pensions, your government, where you were also a minister in this particular area, has taken many things with Zuif. Today, for example, the pensioners have not received back everything they were deprived of, and we must all be aware of it. “Financing of local communities, financing of the judiciary, the military, security, provision of social transfers, investment in infrastructure.” And funding for such important development, which we have neglected quite well in the past. That is why we are also severely lagging behind or unable to reach the average of the development of the European Union. Because today we're still only 82%. Minister, in Europe all these services are financed from taxes, on average 42% of the taxes collected on GDP, the average of the European Union, and are increasing. It is said that taxes are still rising because responsible countries are aware that if there are more taxes, people will have more than that. Responsible governments are aware that paying taxes brings independence, ensures development. Taxes are therefore a more reliable and predictable source of funding than aid and loans, borrowing. This is important, because I will also point out some of the facts below, because you are an integral part of this government, and you are also responsible in this government for what is happening, even in the budget. On the other hand, taxes help governments to behave more responsibly towards their citizens. Important to you as a politician. Higher than the tax revenues of a government, more services can be provided by the state to its citizens. It is, of course, a fact that citizens are also more attentive to how they are being used. Tax revenues thus contribute to better governance of the country and promote greater democraticism of the political system. But with us, it looks like it's going the other way, and that's what we're worried about. It's important. In democratic countries, non-payment, avoidance and evasion of taxes is illegal and even shamefully, the actors who do so are publicly sanctioned, and some are also removed from the market if so expressed. Tax systems, of course, determine how wealth is distributed between the rich and the poor — important! – how the policies of the tax collection are distributed. Yes, it does not, as we have been listening in this National Assembly for two years by the coalition Members. Today, too, the forerunner spoke of this. Of course, you cannot give because none of you or of us are among the first thousand richest in this country, at least not in this country, and you cannot give out of anything. In the last two years, and unfortunately for the years to come, we will depend on the distribution of the debt, so far you have brought us. I mean, every day we wake up, we're more in charge. In 2019 each of us had 15,000 debts, a public debt, and today we have 20,000. In 2023, calculated from the balance sheet projections that you also gave in Brussels, it will already be 23,000 or even more because we do not yet see or see any reductions in taxes. And you want to give more. In Slovenia we collect only 38% of taxes on GDP according to what I said earlier. We said earlier, the European Union average is 42 and the average GDP is also much higher by 20%. With new laws, you lower them, and on the other hand, you promise everyone more. This is a significant deviation from the European Union average, where this average is 42%. This is how you owe citizens or citizens across all the limits and place the burden on future generations. Yes, much praise has also been given today by the predecessor of Comrade Ferjan, what you have given again, what you have given. The government of Marjan Šarc has primarily shared, because remember, honourable Members, we can only share, give nothing, once again. And remember that, every time you say you give, I'll let you know that's not true. It can't be. You, once again, are bragging about how you're giving out today, giving out credit, out of debt. What is it that's so hard to take credit today when they can meet and then give it out of these loans? But you don't realize that you're transferring all of this to future generations. I know you're the Minister for Environment and Space. You used to be the Minister for Economic Affairs. In the second government, you were the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Important resources for a comprehensive understanding of the country's system, for the creation of transport, from which taxes are paid, ensuring the safe life of all of us. And you, after all, are vehemently: "Paying taxes is stupid." Although so many years ago, the question is, what are you talking about behind walls today? We've also heard something else about how the eggs are trimming and so on. Therefore, I am telling you that today you are also responsible for the structural deficit that this government has shown or created, as you are making your statements to the public of completely inappropriate content and thereby creating a lack of confidence in this country. Completely wrong and irresponsible signals for sustainable public finances, ensuring the development of a secure society. You know, Minister, I'm very busy with the question of how much taxes we pay by not paying, by avoiding payments, by transferring – quite, I think that is the most – in the subsidiaries of multinationals that are, of course, with us. I wonder how much you have done in the past and, of course, today to keep these taxes as much as possible in Slovenia. This is a major problem and there may also be major corruption, which is very difficult to prove. But it is for developing countries that it is very significant that they fall prey to such corruption and negotiate quietly and multinationals can then transfer this capital with transfer prices, profits to their country and there properly fill the cash and good living and GDP and the added value there grows high, and then developing countries find it difficult to make that connection to everything. Very important. During the period from 2005 to 2008, a total of 24 billion debts were raised through banks at the time of the wild transition. It's important. At the time, public debt did not even increase, but these 24 billion are important, as the government then allowed through banks, that it was indebted to the transition of the economy. The crisis was followed by the collapse of companies in the current lane, the collapse of banks that were linked to failed companies. GDP growth over the period 2004-2008, which was based on debt and, of course, dropped like a map, although it was very high at the time, but was based on debt, followed by an economic and banking hole and a setback in achieving development. Examples on the EU average, we were already at 83% of the EU's GDP average and dropped to 70% after that crisis. Most of all countries in the European Union. It was only after 2014 that we started to reduce this decline again and today we are at 82%, unfortunately still slightly less than 2008. Well, it sounds good, but you finished this government at the time, but on a shaky foundation, it was then because of this great debt of the economy, which we were in. Of course, there are high budgetary deficits and debt. We couldn't have expected anything else. This has also been helped by the second extreme of your second government in 2012. For the second extreme of over-investment, development and introduction, you introduced Zujf, which we still have not to repeat, completely eliminated, at least not until the pensioners. We still have a debt from this period to the pensioners, and we have to admit that. This is exactly what the toughest nut is in the future, because the pensioner's cash register is very large. Minister Vizjak, these are the consequences of reckless rule from one extreme to another, which continues even more imprudently in this government, even more imprudently, and this questionable Janša economy, whose very visible component is of course you. That's why you're responsible, and that's why you're getting this interpretation from this point of view today. The others have already been well told before me. Minister, it is gradually becoming clear to me why budget documents are in such a structural deficit. The deficit, which, of course, you are increasing by lowering taxes, which we still have on the agenda, and we have certain things on hold. This year, the deficit under the planned budget amounts to 38.4% of the revenue deficit. I look at it differently, not at GDP, because it sounds completely different and it's real numbers. How this year ends, and we'll see. Debt already exceeds 9 billion in two years. In 2022, the deficit, despite significantly reduced cod expenditure, still amounts to a good 21%. Of course, this is an election year and you have to spend, you have to show people how much you give. You pay off your loans, out of debt. But you can only share, only this is our right! The European Commission warns, the Government of Slovenia, in the budget documents you send us, you did not absorb any of the smaller revenues from the Income Act. We've stopped this week. You have no expenditure on long-term care, which significantly increases the structural deficit and prevents the future development of the country. Today I am taking advantage of this interpellation to tell you, Minister, as part of this government, frankly. In 2023, this is an auspicious year, the government does not increase public wages, social transfers, averages to municipalities, subsidies despite optimistic GDP growth. It even reduces expenditure in common. So, Zujf is being introduced in 2023. The data is on the table, I speak from data that the Fiscal Council has also presented and can look at. But, see, the structural deficit is still 13%, although you have practically stopped the expenditure on planned revenues, of course. Of course, once again, the reduced taxes on income per salary, on the capital you have yet to receive before the end of your government, have not been taken into account. For in 2023 these will be even greater expenditure that has not been taken into account. The European Commission points out this – that Slovenia, with the highest structural deficit, flows into dangerous waters and leaves the future government with a very poor supply. Normal democratic societies are aware that it is smarter to finance public spending in health, pensions, education, sport, social, culture, municipalities, military, judiciary, local community, and the most important development with taxes and not debt. In this government, unfortunately, it is different, according to you, enough money is sufficient, of course, by borrowing from financial institutions. Who's gonna give it back? If I put it in your jargon: you're in pain, duck. They will be returning our craftsmen, and it is important that we now rule and adopt ourselves at this time as much as possible and as much as we can take. I can't understand these things any other way. As an economist, I'm afraid I see it this way as a financier. I ask you, Minister, as a representative of this government, who is stupid to pay taxes to you, how we will fund pensions tomorrow when only one other employee will work for one pensioner. Even today, a third of pensioners live below the minimum of survival, including irresponsible treatment of state property and underinvestment in development in the past. In 2020, the number of citizens and citizens living below the poverty line increased by 11,000. This is one community in which we have a comparison. How come, Minister, if this is GDP growth, employees, wages, and I don't know what else you're bragging about, we've heard that today? Then why is poverty growing? Of course, the gap between the poor and the rich is increasing. Of course, every law reduces taxes for the richer, for the poorer only minimal, and the state treasury is unfortunately empty and then not enough for everyone. And keep going. How will we spend more money on health tomorrow if taxes go down? How will you give healthcare higher wages if you invest primarily today in military aircraft, eight-wheelers, on the health side, long-term care is still in the process of obtaining documentation. Your ministry is, of course, responsible. And you're based on millions, even billions of paper documents in a budget that's not real anyway. You speak, we've been listening to you for a year, how much you spend on investments, but you've realized almost nothing, except on infrastructure, where you've already brought guarantees on the plate and everything that could be done. Of course, if paying taxes is stupid, it is necessary to strengthen capital and take care of your own interests. How long will it take, Minister, I wonder. In the end, are you not afraid that the nation will rise and start a third egg? Did you realize that? Because these warnings are already very strong at all ends. And you'll be responsible for that. What happens to public finances tomorrow? I repeat, in your jargon of course, you're in pain of a duck. That's how I feel. I'm sorry. Unfortunately, by your actions and conduct, you do not fall under such a responsible function as the ministry in the democratic country of Slovenia. Perceiv it once, and withdraw yourselves: for with every day of your perseverance in this place, you will cling to more mud, which will be very difficult to wash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Colleagues on the left, let's respect the speaker. The replica has a Yure Ferryan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u183	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Since the predecessor of the List of Marjan Šarc apparently did not understand me well, I would like to reiterate one more point. That's good, then you'll understand. In the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Janez Janša, we share money in the current coalition for people, the Slovenian economy, health care, education, money for investments and projects. In the previous government and in the past governments, you shared money with NGOs based on Metelkov 6, you shared money with those who were preparing studies on how something could or could not be done. To make it easier for us to understand. You were also talking about borrowing. It is probably not necessary to emphasise further that Slovenia is the world in the covida-19 epidemic. And if we put the data in the context, Slovenia owed much less than an average Member State. That's a fact. If we look at what interest we have paid on public debt lending in 2014 and how much we are paying now, there is a nominal difference of more than EUR 300 million. So much for facts and concrete data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Lenart, what do you have? There's no replica on the replica, so let's continue the discussion. Mag. Dejan Židan, behind him did the minister now want a word? [[…]] Oh, then. Okay. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u185	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I wish you a lovely evening! It was so said today, so written that I would begin, Mr. Minister, somewhat unusual. Next week we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Slovenian Constitution. These days, too, we have met with the First Constitutional Commission and the Section of the Constitutional Commission not long ago to thank them. In these times, the Constitution has changed, completed eleven times. It's called a constitutional audit procedure. Of this, it may be very important that we have succeeded as one of the first countries in the world in incorporating the right to drinking water into the Constitution. I know that many have forgotten what was going on at the time, and this is being interpreted differently. But if you look at us who were the initiators, then it happened that we were observing, even in Europe – the case was France, including Germany, for example, the Berlin pipeline, a few cases in the UK – especially very bad cases in Africa, what happens when multinationals, who are monopolistic, come to natural resources, what does this mean from a price point of view and what does this mean from an investment point of view or from a quality deterioration point of view. This was then the reason why an action to collect signatures was taking place throughout Europe. This was the reason why some large countries quickly moved away from the concessional management system, including the German Berlin pipeline. This was also the main reason for us to adopt a constitutional change in Slovenia. I can even say that we have been a little advanced, because if we did something similar today, we would probably put first the consequences of the climate crisis, climate change. One of the consequences is the great pressure on access to water resources. As far as this is concerned, we have been successful and I am glad that we have come so far and implementation has not yet been completed. Your ministry and I have exchanged several letters directly with the Government, which you probably remember, because you were signed below. We have been promised that there will be a final step, and this is a step that we will implement the last things that are necessary, it is that management does not fall into the hands of private people, made somewhere in the middle of this year. So the last missing chain is the law on - I think so - public economic services in the field of environmental protection. What wasn't right is that they started looking for arguments about why the delays were taking place, and the hands were changing. Now you have set yourself a deadline for presenting it to the general public or to the general public by the end of this year. As far as I know at this time, this law — at least to be seen — is not yet there. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Bo? You have another week. We're all aware. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] In my opinion, not two, because I had just read that your boss said, "You should all be gone for the last week." Or you have double criteria, one for state administration and the other for yourself. He sent you home. That's what it says today, last week, be at home as much as possible so you don't help spread the infection. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Then again, you want to be something special. Do the same as any other state administration, not have any special status, please. But okay, it's good if it comes. This is one offense, but okay, if you give it by the end of the year, you know that if the procedure is carried out as necessary, it is unlikely that it will be adopted within your term of office. We are all looking forward, especially on this side, and I believe that someone on the right, that the period of this government is ending. I have seen in Slovenia that they have written on their calendars on the exact days when they count down. We'll get to the hundred at any time, and then you'll see, it'll just turn around. If this law is prepared, if, if not this one, another, the constellation of the National Assembly accepts it, it will be fine. It'll be late, but it's important that it's done. What is not clear to me now is that, at that time, we have been able, as one of the first countries, to further protect water resources because of the climate and climate conditions, how is it that your suggestion also fails to bring together resolutions on the declaration of an environmental and climate crisis through the parliamentary committee, which is by the way, not a socialist project. Because if it were a socialist project, I almost believe the Vatican wouldn't support it. I am also quite sure that Austria, where all the parties in the Austrian Parliament voted in favour of declaring the environmental and climate crisis, with the exception of the extreme party, would not support it. Then I wonder if there is a difference between us that this Parliament cannot accept it on the committee – or I think that it would be on the plenary, but the committees are no longer made up like the plenary – that there are several extreme parties with us than in the Austrian Parliament. But well, we're obviously not going to be in this assembly of parliament either. However, I am quite sure that we will do so in the new composition of Parliament. And there is something else I would like to say, because it is often heard from the government, that this is not accepted, that we will not give any additional burden to the Slovenian economy as one of the first. We can't be the first. That's what you need to know. The countries where climate change will hit everyone the worst are the Mediterranean countries have already declared the climate crisis to a large extent in their territory. For example, if we look at Italy next door, if we go to France and then we get to Spain and so on. The other thing is a little bit more positive. With your ministry, especially through discussions with your State Secretary, who is here – I must say that all the promises she has made so far have been made and only so far – and also through letters, we have launched a very intensive debate, which has not yet been concluded, but at least it has started, that is, what to do with emissions from waste incineration and co-incineration. My, our initiatives went in two to three directions. The first direction was, let's please not always say what some basic, lowest European standards are, but let's take into account the standards of the best countries in Slovenia. Knowing that we have to take care of our own waste. Another initiative I have been giving all the time is, let us be aware that we already have ecologically degraded areas in Slovenia. Let us be milder to these areas, so the standards for these areas should be even stricter. Third, let us really think about what is more important, whether the ability of individual technologies or human health is more important. When I ask that, what's the question? The question is why we agree to allow different concentrations of harmful substances, if different technologies are involved, to be burned or co-incinerated. And fourthly, I have given you the initiative to include health professionals in your expert groups. So that it will not only be looking for ways to measure emissions or emissions in the environment, but that the health profession will specifically tell how this affects human health. What I'd like to say is that in the first step, you, too, have taken us across the street. You have a working group, you've even made two subgroups. The presence of health professionals is also important in one subgroup. What's important is that you gave yourself a deadline, and this deadline is that by the end of this year – you wrote yourself within six months of the end of the epidemic, that's, if we count, December 15th, that was before yesterday – came with results. Today is two days after that, and the question I have hardly asked, exactly 15. I have asked because it was exactly six months ago. I very much want the answer to this question of yours to be what your promise was or what your prediction was. Third thing. Here I will say, although it is not customary for the opposition Members to commend the competent ministry. But once I have given you several initiatives to re-establish co-financing of electric bicycles in the coming periods due to e-mobility, to protect the environment and help people, you have sent me a positive response and will be included next year through your fund, which you have for such needs. And even when I gave you an additional initiative to pay particular attention to people with motion disorders, i.e. people with disabilities, you responded in a rather unusual way that the idea is good, but to write something more concrete if I have any concrete proposal. I'd like to inform you here. I believe you haven't gotten this in your own hands since it was sent in your direction a few days ago. I have contacted both the association of people with disabilities in Slovenia and the association of paraplegics and also received their proposal. So, at your initiative, I have prepared a concrete proposal, in cooperation with the Association of Paraplegics of Slovenia, and also with the agreement of the Disabled Association. Of course, because I know there is no possibility that the question of whether New Slovenia will be present at all, with their promises we have the experience we have of – you will probably continue until the end of this government minister and would actually like this project to be carried out positively, including the disabled. Why including the disabled? Because we have all been successful together this year in the field of disabled persons. We unanimously, like the others in Europe – I think we were others – accepted the Slovenian Sign Language into the Slovenian Constitution and, as the first person in the world, we recognized the special status of the people who are most difficult, these are deaf people, and they were recognized by their language. That's a step forward. This year we have managed to significantly improve the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. This was even my marriage, but I also received support from the government and also from the right-hand side, which I appreciate. We've increased the payments to the disabled, which is also good. We have not yet succeeded. I wish we could finally reinstate the system of recognition of occupational diseases. We have left 700 to 800 people behind every year for 30 years, and if we do this again to get additional co-financing of electric bicycles for disabled people through your fund, we will take another step forward. This is not such a step that political parties take credit, but we help the most difficult people. Why am I going to vote for interpolation? You've seen me open four points, none of which was meant to be an argument, but to do something. I will, of course, support the interpolation because of all the events around the water, including this covert amendment, which we have discovered in a few hours and withdrawn from the construction law. You just didn't prove, at least by me seeing it effectively enough, that it's a false word, how you put pressure on the judges, if it's in your interest. I know it's an old thing. I'm also aware that we can actually judge work here as long as you're a minister. But the problem with this country is that democratic values are trying to break. The problem also lies in the fact that it is simply not understood enough that the three branches of government — while balance — must support each other rather than subjugate each other. This is very dangerous for the democratic development of any country, in particular a country that is so young and does not yet have a very rooted democratic tradition of action. And that's just one reason why I'm going to support the interpolation. I am aware of the position of your coalition and your contractual opposition, which have been publicly declared unsuccessful. I hope that these four things, which I think are important for the Slovenian environment, will be realized by the end of the mandate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u187	Dear Member, just for a little while, because I will then further substantiate all the answers to this interpolation. Whether we will implement this measure of yours with regard to aid in the purchase of electrical means of transport for disabled persons is also up to you, honourable Member. That's up to you. Because if you're gonna get rid of me today or tomorrow morning, you're just gonna have to talk to somebody else. And you talked me into it. So the good way to do this is not to support the interpretation if you want me to implement this measure. So your performance is a little contradictory – you expect something from me, but at the same time you will vote for my resolution. However, I can assure you that I will look very unwittingly at this proposal that will come from the disabled organisations, and I think it is right that we also make it easier for the disabled to live in this way and thus contribute in part to the protection of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Thirsty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u189	Maybe I wasn't clear. I've said three reasons why, Minister, it would be right for you to step down on your own. But I'm aware [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Only in the end. Do I have to repeat them? But in the end, I am aware that political arithmetic in this National Assembly is just the way it is, and that there is no possibility that we will be able to get these supporters to vote for what is necessary. In fact, I listed four projects that are not really policy projects, political parties, which are important for Slovenia, for people with disabilities and for the Slovenian environment. I don't think it's wrong to say four projects that are. Any composition of the next ministry, whether you are a minister or, I don't know, your Madam Secretary of State, in the event of a vote of interpretation, taking over your work or a quarter of you, I would like some to finish their work in four projects that are important. Not because they are important to me as they are to Dejan Židan, but because they are only important to Social Democrats, because they are useful to Slovenian society. That's why I counted them. And if you miss that I may not have spoken with too much of a voice, because this is a habit in this House – I sometimes use slightly milder words for serious things. But this would benefit everyone in Slovenian politics – to be a little more careful in words, for example. Because this is the only way we can get Slovenia back to normal. This is what we urgently need as a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Matjaž German, Mr Janez Moškrič is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, good evening! Just as my colleague Dejan Židan has ended up – surely the earth will not stop spinning with your departure. I'm sure there'll be a lot of people behind you when he comes to your post doing a little better work than you. Perhaps a little more transparent, with a greater sense of the environment and perhaps even for people. Because, of course, what makes us human is all the subsystems and systems in the country that we have all, left, right, in the past, in the future, I hope that we will continue to cultivate them. For man is quite confused by the way in which the visible representatives of the three governments of John Janša from 2004 to this day have reduced the criteria of understanding, the sense of rule of law, the moral or political or criminal responsibility. I will never forget, in the first Janša government, there was a secretary at the Ministry of Labour, which you then covered and represented in another government, and he had to resign only because in the same sentence, he used the word "retired" and "matilda" in a word. I am interested in this comparison with today’s sense of responsibility embodied by Janša’s government. Dear Minister, with all due respect, you are part of this, and much has also accumulated in your path, not only from the recordings that show that you are leading to tax evasion. What bothers me, Your Honor Minister, is the credibility we've been losing to politicians for statements like yours since the 19th century. Ten. “The tape is sticky,” you said, “I did not talk to Petan about business cooperation.” A few days later, that's four. 11. you said: “The video is authentic.” I quote you, Your Honor. But today, you've spoken again in the National Assembly, that's 17. 12. that the tape is sticky and that the video is not genuine. A man loses his sense of judgment when he follows these statements of yours. I understand that you may be confused on one side, because these recordings are not welcome for anyone, not for us from the opposition, no one wants you to. We have also heard information that you are talking in the SDS, that maybe someone from another SDS network planted this for you, which we can absolutely allow, because it is impossible to trace some of the videos that are so many years old. I have to say, I'm surprised at the vehementness of your conversation on this video, but it's not that important. Dear Minister, you are an important part of a policy that presents on average 20% of our population, which, in some ways, also by example to their children, grandchildren, relatives, shows what kind of society we should be, regardless of the fact that society is different, which is important, the relationship to social property, in the final stage to human beings. But all things are allowed today. What is happening in political communication on your part as carriers of political power is unacceptable. And you're in the middle of this storm. Certainly not the centre, because President Janša and Mr Hojs are unattainable from this point of view. But, Minister, you're full of experience. You have been in politics many times and in the economy for many years and yet have managed to maintain some network within the SDS, which is probably now being competed with by some other networks, as Mr Krković publicly mentioned. I believe that there is also a struggle within you to prevail over what should be the socially responsible management of social property. And I'm sure we're not all the same. I'm more than sure. What's important about this is that we're trying to maintain that little dignity that we're still cultivating as a politician. Because because of your statements and your work from the point of view of the situation of power, you actually represent the face of the entire Slovenian policy and consequently of society and what is allowed today is acceptable, and I am not just talking about social governance. Dear Minister, if we return to that time when a secretary resigned only because he used pensioners and matilda in the same speech or sentence, you were in the period when that meeting about Mercator's sale, Dela, Pivovarne Laško, in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, the author of the key law, that is, the takeover Act, which allowed companies to be acquired through managers' purchases in a manner that allowed managers to receive loans secured by undertakings. We're charging you 34 million taxes, in fact, by addressing you, you convinced someone not to pay them and that the country would be deprived of it. We're talking about a large sum of money. For example, we are talking about 850 euros in allowances for 58,000 women with the lowest pensions or a full scholarship for 25,000 students. We are talking about one big Slovenian city for our situation. Or minimum wage for 46,000 employees or total rent for 8 thousand families. That's what you're talking about with the gentleman so I don't talk like everyone else about some stupid taxes that shouldn't have to be paid. Dearly beloved, we are not all the same and some still believe in good corporate governance without political mixing. But in the face of this confusion that arises in the time of Janša’s third government, one feels that some privileged people in our country can practically do anything. Also, Minister, if it is not criminally persecutable that you bought Petrol's shares before the liberalisation of the fuel market, you would be in a number of countries, of course under the auspices of the OECD network, in which we are forced to withdraw only because of our personal integrity, and more so because of the integrity of the party you represent. But, as we say, today we're in conflict with all logic, and in fact, we're creating a feeling that everything is allowed. 670 thousand people actually showed you a red water management card in a populist language. You have proposed a law that the people, with the help of organised societies and organisations, including politics, have actually collapsed into dust as, I apologize, no one so far. In fact, we have not yet had a referendum to show politicians that they do not properly manage our country, which you do not own, but that you do have in temporary management, including you, Minister. And you're not talking about your client's welfare, you're talking about all citizens and citizens. If anyone on your side could gain as much integrity, if not from dignity as citizens and citizens said this summer. What bothers me – that this is becoming part of a culture not only of your party but also of related parties such as Nova Slovenije – is today's decision of New Slovenia, despite the fact that it has publicly stated that it does not receive your support, it has expressed this support by avoiding voting. As politicians, then, do we answer to anyone else? Yes, Your Honor Horvat, I urge you from New Slovenia to do the completely unacceptable work you are currently doing, and you support this destructive government. I don't even know where you've got your notes, so you can talk people into an ideology that you're supposed to represent yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, there was an important climate conference in Glasgow at the time when the Republic of Slovenia chaired the European Union. What grieves me in the circumstances is that neither the President of the Government nor you nor all those responsible have had a sense of responsibility for any communication that the Slovenian public, the European public and the world public would give to the event in relation to the environment that you actually despise. To the environment, Minister, me, to the environment. To ecology. What your client colleagues, the Prime Minister himself, justify as global overheating, is part of some history of our humanity, even more, our planet, scientists argue that is not the case. Practically you — and I tell you, because you are a minister also in charge of this area — can deny all vehementity that you do not. And yes, Minister, on the days when the climate conference was held in Glasgow, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who chaired the European Union, was hacking on Twitter at the expense of his attitude towards ecology. You can check it out. This saddens me because the President is not only the president of the SDS, but also presents my attitude and the attitude of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to the environment with which we like to boast. And I'm really sorry, as Minister of Environment and Space, I'm not sure you're on the side of the environment. But you are probably more on the side of that part of the building space, and this part is probably devoted only to those who are in some way privileged to do so. Dearly respected, we, the Social Democrats, have, in response to all the anomalies on the basis of our 30-year experience, been a parliamentary party with tradition, prepared a programme that commits itself to putting an end to these practices and to applying the best principles of corporate governance so that such a story as has happened to you would no longer be repeated in our society. Policy is also supposed to understand social governance as responsible, not as prey. Indeed, we believe that it is possible to achieve greater economic potential, best network development effects and modernise our infrastructure by actively managing state and financial assets. Respected, the fundamental orientation of the whole policy and society should be responsible ownership. And I say this as a policy that I would like to pass on this responsibility especially to those who bear political responsibility, if not to others, to which we are bound by the legal basis, such as the SDH Act, or, of course, best practices from the OECD countries, organizations whose proud part is us. That – and I will conclude – what escapes me from all of this is, the distinguished Minister, your inconsistent statements and conduct when revealing events from 14 years ago, and what escapes me more is what you leave me as an inheritance for our craftsmen in relation to the environment, in relation to water, in relation to everything that still makes us human beings and, above all, what makes us proud citizens and citizens in the country where we are so eager to promote ourselves as a green tourist destination. I would really like to blow a new wind, not only in your ministry, but generally in relation to communication, to the management of state silver, if I may say so, and of course, above all, to be broken by the promises we make to citizens and citizens, especially when we talk about our own values, as promised by your coalition partner in relation to support for you today. I would like to have a different approach to the environment, and I hope that you will be replaced by someone who will at least treat the environment differently from you and thus show us all what our future together could be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the minister. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u193	Dear Member, I – of course you were not in here – have already explained the situation several times about these recordings and I will explain it again and you will see that my statements are not unconstant, they have never been and that they are facts of fact. So, the signatories of the interpolation supported the reasons for the proposal for my discharge on 14 years old and the glue of these recordings, which were made with the covert, illegal recording of the conversation between me, who was then serving as Minister for the Economy, and the tycoon Bojan Petan, who was in charge of the group of DZS in which the Dnevnik, The Work of the Sales, Terme Catež are in. The video published confirms and proves my then takeover and convincing Bojan Petan not to carry out the harmful takeover of Terme Catež and, consequently, to the detriment of its owners or state and taxpayers. Now, after 14 years, my predictions have proved true, the takeover of Terme Catež has been extremely harmful for this company, its owners, its state and its taxpayers. The damage to the state is estimated at more than EUR 100 million, and I now have to defend myself before the media and the national assembly, not in the courts, for the words spoken 14 years ago and for the attempts to prevent this damage to the state and taxpayers, and I want to impose a so-called stupid payment of taxes with the sound of illegal hearings. The tape of four recordings, as proved by the tonic expert Mitja Krapsa, was released on October 18th of this year at 24UR ZVEČER, POP TV. I've always said it was a glue, and it was also proved by a ton expert. This is a glue, as proved by a ton expert, and you can see for yourself if you will listen a little more carefully to the changing ambient sound. I can read what this expert wrote at the time: that this is a professionally-cleaned or otherwise-processed recording and that it is a visible glue, that in the first part of the video, birds are heard in the background, and that in the second voice of Bojan Petan knows and hears the space that indicates that it is in the interior, that is impossible in nature. Therefore, it is clear from the opinion of the Tonian expert that this is a glue, and none of the publishers on POP TV have ever rejected this – that this first shot was a glue. On this basis, I find the so-called stupid tax payment, which I have never said, and I have always and again supported the idea that it is foolish to do harmful business for businesses and owners of these companies, which in this particular case has damaged Terme Catež for more than EUR 30 million. As a result, Mr Petan or the dependent companies Terme Catež, Marina Portorož and the Tourism Company Portorož should pay a capital profit tax, which has not happened. Mr Petan claimed in the video that Al Capone, who was killing people, had to pay taxes, but he was aware that taxes were to be paid. Apparently, Mr Bojan Petan is also above Al Capone, as he did not pay taxes for this capital gain, from which he should pay more than EUR 5 million through the subsidiaries Marine Portorož and the Tourism Company Portorož. This has not happened, Mr. Bojan Petan is not responsible for this. In 2007, I therefore wanted to prevent Terme Catež from buying up its own shares, which were at Marina Portorož and Portorož. Just what you're reading to me, I was trying to stop it, and I'm sorry it didn't work out. Indeed, in a conversation that was of a private nature, informal – you compared one formal statement by one minister to this conversation, which is not in place – I was actually going to protect the state property, which I regret to fail and today the Terme Catež is on his knees. Look at some numbers. As doctors determine human health based on the results of the tests, the blood count and the like, of course, the company’s health is determined from the financial data derived from the annual business reports. Let's see where the Terme Câtez sailed because of these harmful acts in 2007. The terme Catež had 41 million euros in revenue in 2007, and last year only 18 million more, and if we think about the crisis and look at 2019, which is the correct comparison because there was no crisis, there were only 29 million revenues. The cash flow or profit from depreciation fell from 12 million to 7 million, net financial debt increased from 35 million to 44 million, CapEx, the real investment fell from 12 million to 5 million, the market value of the share fell from 340 euros per share to 39 euros per share and the net financial debt ratio: EBITDA or cash flow jumped from 2.8 times in 2007, which is also bearable, to 6 times in 2019 and to 10 times in 2020. According to economic theory – I have heard that some economists also know – when this ratio is over 4 or, say, 5 in the worst case scenario, the company has no help and will not be able to repay the loans. Here's the heat today because of those jobs I was trying to stop at the time. It's my fault. In doing so, I used a harsh speech at the expense of the judiciary or, say, threatened Petan that if he did, we would use all the levers to prevent it. I also used inappropriate words in this regard, which I have already apologized for. But understand this my efforts as a struggle to avoid this injury. Unfortunately, this injury has occurred and we are here today where we are. The fact that Terme Catež is indeed there also proves a comparison with Termes Olimia, who are now in a significantly more favourable position, are from a comparable industry in the region in fact identical and have made progress in these years, while Terme Catež is where they are. But the work of Bojan Petan here did not leave the only damage to the country. In fact, creditors, these are various banks, transferred bad claims to a bad bank of EUR 80 million, these groups of DZS, Terme Catež and Delo sales. This was purchased by the York Fund a few years later for about 50% of the value, which means that the remaining 50% and 40 million remained on the taxpayer's shoulders. And all taxpayers will pay for these failed investments by Terme Catež, or owners that we wanted to prevent at the time. That was then my takeover, so I'm sitting here today defending myself in front of you. Once again, I strongly stress that this should be taxed on capital gains that have not been paid, and today it is clear to me that taxes are stupid to pay. Taxes have to be paid, what is stupid and criminal, I have already said in 2007, but today I have also shown you a series of media releases from the time from which they come, here I have them, a whole store of them, for example: “The Termes Catež events are crime, so says Minister Andrej Vizjak, who is furious at the attempts of property change in this society.” That was 23. Seven. 2007 There are many articles on this subject and Bojan Petan, who is actually the godfather of all of this, still enjoys the position of director of these companies today. Recently, the Finance Officer announced that he receives about half a million euros of gross annual income or wages, let's say he is a four-time director. Through his media, the Diary, the Sunday Diary, and the media of his friend Martin Godzák spread the so-called truth, and you sit on it and invest in it for this interpretation. This is actually the truth about this thing. True, there is, in fact, a conflict of two views here today, whether they count acts or words. I'm just a man of action, operational, and I work, and sometimes I say something off the beach inappropriately. But can this be given to greater resentment, suspension, or counting of acts? Will we rule in this country again only with words, puffs, empty promises, and people will not receive the development of a green transition and not progress as they might be? Of course, I advocate the need to work effectively, in fact very quickly in certain areas, because problems are accumulated. We are all aware that a green transition or climate crisis is necessary and requires rapid action. I'm glad you mentioned Glasgow. I was there for a week. Prior to this, the Slovenian Presidency has unified the position of the 27 Member States on the negotiating points for Glasgow. In Glasgow, we have negotiated, the European Union, one thing that has not yet happened, which, by the way, has also been commended by your party Vice-President of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans, and we have also been greatly commended for this. Of course, this did not happen to our media because there was no affair because there was nothing wrong with it because there were achievements and results. And we don't usually read this in the media that you read every day in this KUL coalition. So when we talk about water and water protection, which is also one of the important foundations of this interpretation, I do not know, I hope that you will read a magnetogram of your fellow Member, Mr Polnar, who has actually said everything and more about this topic. Water is not protected, nor is it protected by the new Water Act, which has been introduced, but is protected by concrete measures of water supply, water protection against waste water discharge, that is, sewage systems, sewage treatment plants, flood protections. And in this mandate, we have supported or only put in place over 50 projects under the Agreement for the Development of the Regions from March of the previous year to today, which upgrade water systems across Slovenia, which introduce waste water treatment and treatment systems that, of course, protect people's assets and lives from floods, amounting to about EUR 400 million. Through the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which was a unique project, we have dedicated an additional EUR 107 million of refunds and grants to small water supply and a small sewage system to protect water and drinking water. By the way, adequate discharge of wastewater protects groundwater from pollution. We have also launched the promotion of the issuance of water protection regulations, these are regulations protecting water protection areas. A single water protection regulation has been adopted within the mandate of the previous governments over a period of three years. Since March, we have adopted five water protection regulations and 20 are in the process of adopting them because we want to protect water resources because this is crucial. We started with a water supply project of Slovenia's Istria or Coasta to provide access to healthy drinking water for everyone in the Republic of Slovenia because they do not have it today. We are working hard to reach out to the mayor of the Canal to help solve water problems in the Kanal Congregation. Finally, at the time of the visit of the government in Goriška, she offered an interest in cooperation and cooperation, and we will also arrange it, and I also thank the support of this project in the National Assembly. Dearly beloved, this is how I personally look at the protection of drinking water — with concrete projects to allow people access to this water and to protect water protection areas. However, it is not in a demagogic way that one law, which sought only to debirocratise attacks on coastal and coastal lands and water lands, is abused in a demagogue manner, under strict safeguards that they cannot and must not harm the water condition, that they must not be contrary to the water management plan, that they must not exacerbate the erosion and flood risk and that there are still some of these conditions. For each of these interventions, environmental consensus needs to be obtained. This is what you consider an attack, as a desant, as a violation of the constitutional right to healthy drinking water, but not as a measure, many stom million projects, that people will really get water on the tap that is subject to monitoring, control and that will bring people what they deserve. Of course, through interpolation, I also have some other findings regarding Petrol's shares. All I can say about this is that I am proud to be able to invest my savings, the money I earn, in the Slovenian economy, not to put it in smurfs, which is what most people do and hide money, and that is why we have so much and so much money that is not in circulation and is not being noble and is not being invested. In doing so, no supervisory authority in that country has identified any irregularities and I now have to defend myself before you, politicians, and neither the Anti-Corruption Commission nor the Securities Market Agency have found any irregularities. I have purchased shares, like any one of you, in an organised market, publicly, in a transparent way. And that, just one piece of evidence, I was buying shares in March and May 2000, the deregulation was in September 2000, October 2000 you could buy shares at the same price as May. Same price. This is said to be true, price deregulation did not affect value and no benefit, and anyone could buy under the same terms of this share and, therefore, even when the Agency saw it, it was indeed a fictional thing about this perception. Once again, this should be the case with Kopitar; we have the regulators for the securities market and for corruption. These authorities have not identified any errors and the proceedings against me have been stopped, in fact, no procedure of any supervisory institution in this country is ongoing against me. I am here today for political responsibility and that is why I am defending myself in this way. I'm going to touch on the readings regarding the Terme Catež concession. You know, the management of this company has always been able to avoid a variety of obligations, including obligations arising from the grant. Therefore, the concession relationship has never been regulated with this company. It was only arranged for a part of the wells, in fact, no one knew how much water they were pumping because they were saying that even the wells were not on their land, that there was still denationalisation of these plots, and they also argued that they did not have measuring devices and so on. There were no inspections against them, penalties were paid, and at the end of the day, they finally agreed to the concession and will have to pay the concession fee four times in terms of the present, since it will finally be determined how much water they draw. And they got a concession fee for the amount of water that ensures the aquifer's stability, and nothing more. Actually, it's a little less. In the past, these quantities have been set at a significantly higher value, including double to triple that value. According to the current expert bases of the Geological Survey, this quantity is significantly lower and Terme Catež will also have to respect the other provisions of the concession contract; this is, of course, to monitor both the quantities and the temperature of the pumped water, to make thermal use of the water, but not to send half the hot water into the watercourse and to pay the concession fee at four times the amount. Until now, Terme Catež has paid between 70 and 80, and which year to 100,000 euros in concession fees, according to our calculations, will then have to pay 400 000 euros in concession fees. In response to the interpolation, of course, I also strongly reject all indications that we have adopted the Environmental Law, the Water Act, the Environmental Protection Act and other legislation in the absence of the Aarhus Convention and the Environmental Protection Act or its Article 34a. That's what we're rejecting. The evidence for this is also harmonised rules, including the recent Environmental Protection Act with virtually all NGOs, and of course we have acted and we want to continue to work in this spirit of efficiency with environmental care.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We have a replica first. Mr. Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, I am very sorry, but you are completely inconclusive, and I will only briefly explain some of my findings to you. In fact, it seems strange to me to answer my question with three times the length of my time - I use to ask you some questions and my views on this interpretation. But you certainly do not convince me of your role in the resolution of water supply in the Kanal congregation, because if someone is your customer; I think she even opposed at least one, if not the two decisions we have taken here, and the effort has been made by all of us, except by your party. So, you're saying that you solved some problem that your colleagues were still challenging and opposed. This can be demonstrated by a vote. You say – and I will not judge, quite lazily, because I am not a copyist, as you say – that everyone can buy the shares of Petrol, but not everyone knows that the government will go to market liberalisation. So, everyone can buy, I agree – how much did the government know about this action? You're talking about climate change. In the National Assembly, I apologize, Dejan Židan, we have dealt with the resolution on climate change five times, it is a relatively framed measure which our country is supposed to take in full. State. I speak for you, for me, for my children, for my colleagues, for all of us, but the SDS did not contribute anything, in fact it opposed some document that would give clear guidance on how environmental policy should work in future governments. You're talking about the court that we're punishing you here today by actually carrying out our mission and claiming your political responsibility, while the court did not claim criminal responsibility when universal Slovenia knows that it was a completely different story if the matter did not get old and would probably be for someone else, but not for those you wanted to get hurt by things, because things wouldn't get old and we wouldn't be the ones we're judging, but probably the appropriate authorities would be dealing with this case of yours, I'm sure if this case didn't get old. So you're not on the safe side. You are therefore on the safe side by chance in this criminal aspect, but in political terms everything is in New Slovenia; whether the country will make the promise it made and stick to its own words and, more importantly, principles, or crush words and principles. So, you're hanging on a thread, but not because of us, because of your coalition partners who think that everything is allowed in the 2020 mandate2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukič wanted the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I'll be very short. Look, we've been going around the same thing all day. The Minister and his SDS have been persistently voicing all day long that these are images of an informal nature and even a plasterer, as the tone expert said. This tonic expert is named Mitja Krapsa and man is all the more than an independent ton expert. In fact, when he gives you that name, you will first be written by the SDS party, and then you will write out all the live portals that this tonic expert is involved in. These are: My Dolenjska, e-Maribor, Primorska 24, Notranjska.si, Celjska messenger and Fire Report. It is said that the media themselves from SDS orbit, while sound forensics have found the footage to be authentic. Other forensic speakers, what the media has been writing, have found the footage to be authentic. Neither did you deny that your voice was upon them; so that it was not a certain actor who imitated you. In short, Your Honor, this is absurd. Minister of Economy Andrej Vizjak and Tycoon Bojan Petan, and not neighbour Andrei and neighbor Bojan, agreed in an hour on how to take over the state company, how to avoid paying stupid taxes and how to shoot judges' balls. Pika. This is the "stupid tax" affair. But it seems more problematic to blackmail you with a video that is of an informal nature than with the Minister's corrupt and illegal conduct. As far as stocks are concerned, respected as said by a colleague, of course everyone can buy them, only everyone has no internal information or access to internal information and there is a significant difference. If I were a minister, I would certainly not be buying shares at such sensitive public companies as you are now under the magnifying glass. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The text was also wanted by the proposer, Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, you made a real glue today out of this defense of interpolation. I don't know, I think the same thing has been repeated for the fourth or fifth time, but it's very unconvincing. Above all, it's banal that we're coming back to this video now; on this stupid video, no. But only a court-appointed expert will give you a guarantee that it is indeed a glue. Until then, when anyone in this country hears this, they will never believe that it is a glue — a conversation made from several conversations — because the story runs too well, the story runs too well. I'm not saying if you were to be glued, "You'll pay taxes. That's too bad. That's stupid." Okay, you can, but you have this, ” and if nothing else, you have to pay the tax to the state. [[…]] But I agree. Just once, you’ll have to do it, ” and you say, “No, you don’t need it. ” [[…]] [[…]] And Petan said: "Who then sees, and who ought to be acquiescing the state of taxes? Me or you? Me." Visjak: “Too bad, that’s stupid, stupid for the company « Petan: “We will only be able to pay it once ” Visjak: “I don’t have to, but I told you the script when it doesn’t have to be. ” [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] That's what it says. It's from such an amazingly good script, isn't it? [[…]] It runs beautifully, but unconvincingly completely. You won't convince anyone. And you didn't answer me before, and it's also this conversation. What were they doing here next to Terme Olimia? When you mentioned Terme Catež, the current situation, which is of course a very bad, bad company, Terme Olimia is an excellent company. But then you said, "It's different when you buy Olimia. Here we can help, we can figure out what we're going to do, they can be Olimie here, they can be Olimie there, at the Church." Well, you say you fought to protect the state's interest! No! No! You meddled, you meddled for so long, of course, that eventually Petan brought you around. You didn't have an answer for that here. And you didn't give me another answer. I asked you earlier this afternoon about these companies dealing with waste treatment and waste collection. Is it true that he was a representative or a director — I don't know — maybe the director of Slopaka was the only one of these companies that was at the Ministry of the Environment when the content of the Environmental Protection Act was under way? So, the only one who consulted or consulted him is these companies, I don't know, six or how many. I ask this because this information circulates that there was a director, who is of the kind of SDS, but I am interested in it very specifically. Was he the only one there, and did he affect the content of the Environmental Protection Act?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u201	For a little while. No, he wasn't, Director Slopaka wasn't with me. I asked the secretary of state, and he wasn't with her either. I answered all the questions, Mr. Bear, only you don't want to hear it. I also made it very clear that neither Vizjak, nor the Ministry, nor the Government, nor the National Assembly will set up an organisation that will deal with individual waste streams, but will be set up by the producers of these products or waste. This is their duty, for the producer's extended liability imposes on all those who place products on the market to provide for these products throughout the life cycle. So also for the packaging of this product and for the product after the end of life. So, manufacturers are going to set up an organization; whether it's Slopak, or it's going to be Robak, or it's going to be Rudy, or it's going to be, I don't know, I don't know what it's going to be called, it's just their thing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next word is Mr. Janez Moškrič, prepare for Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u203	Good evening to all present.Oh, my God! We've been here 11 hours. Five more are ahead of us. Let me just say that I'm happy with something first, that the light of peace works. In view of the past days ahead of us, today there have been no major deviations in our debates — in your debates, in your debates. That's my pleasure. We started the debate with the motioner, Mr Rudi Medved, who, in presenting this interpretation, had been with the Minister for some time, had been with the whole government, for some time with the President of the Government - I do not think that people have exactly what we are talking about today. I am also aware that, with my debate, I will not change your decisions, but I would repeat a few things, because unfortunately here in Parliament this Slovenian word does not apply, that only in the mill is said twice, we have to repeat a certain matter 10 times, 100 times in Parliament, but some people do not want to, do not want to, do not hear, do not know. This was the case; there are four areas that you are reading to the minister. First of all, I'm gonna start at the end, so it's like buying Petrol's shares. Look, the Minister's purchase of Petrol's shares has been well explained; it is said that the purchase was transparent. At a time when he was a minister, even at a time when this country, and in general in the world, was a problem of a coronary epidemic that slowed down the economy. All those who had money, knowledge, probably invested. How many people can make some profit out of this story will only be seen in years. I'm pretty sure if Petrol's shares in this case were at the same height as he bought them, they wouldn't be on the list. What if it fell? Would you say that the minister was deceiving that the minister bought and then, of course, bought some others, seduced, seduced people into a financial disaster? So, it's a completely meaningless thinking. Everyone has the right to buy and even more; in this particular case, our minister's affairs took place very quickly. All regulators have begun to investigate the subject and no problems, but in the people and in the KUL opposition this is a serious problem. Let's keep going so I won't be too long. It's a concession. At the time of the previous governments, a legal basis for regulating the concession was established, and even the regulation had to be in place to regulate the concession because it was done domestically, according to the household. Something was paid to the flat or to one of the old data, nothing was measured, nothing was verified. All of this has been done by this government, with the help of the Institute, which has made an analysis for a particular case. Based on all this, what is the result? The country gets more and nature gets the water right back, properly cooled and everything needed. See, that's the result of this work. And that's why the minister has to defend himself now? Incomprehensible. The Water Act or the referendum. The minister has one mistake here. Do you know which one? He could not believe that a lie could win, that the data, which is 70 per cent of the election campaign on this referendum, could be based on inaccurate data. The other colleagues of mine, or Mr Polnar, described this graphically. Because it was a completely different purpose of legal matter. But we were at the time of the epidemic or in the intermediate period when people were even more sensitive. Every day they listen to what this government is doing, then NGOs join in, and the result was that they made the choice they made. Too bad, I'm pretty sure if the minister thought this lie could win, he'd run a so-called referendum campaign. Otherwise, I'd spend some money, but it'd be easier to explain to people. But he didn't do it. So now you can't tell him that he even spent so much and so many thousands of Euros that are lawful under the law, and he threw them away, we'll say, because he lost the referendum. No, he didn't, and you can't tell him that. But what about the loss of referendums and what we have heard today? [[Incomprehensible]] Now we are at chapter four: the so-called meeting. I call him a meeting. How it was done, what was the purpose of this, was presented in detail by the Minister in reply and today. Not poetically, but specifically with numbers and order and comparison with other companies. Undoubtedly, the decisions of the then - day leadership, the current management of the thermos in the light of redemption, mixing, were wrong. Because this company is not what it should be in its industry. He presented the parallel nicely with another company. But that's not my purpose today. My purpose today is something else, namely that in the country of Slovenia we have individuals, institutions, organisations, communities that record, archive, process data, audio and probably other ministers, Members. How many of these videos are there? How many ministers, or how many ministers and other officials of the Slovenian Democratic Party have been recorded in this case? In official actions, in official meetings, in informal conversations, in friendly meetings, in visits? How much is that in this country? This is a problem that no journalist has ever lit up. Look. That's the problem I'm putting out today. How much is that? Because who is using this? Non-democratic, criminal systems used it. That's what we've heard in history. If there were informants in the courtyards, the former communist system could have been used by telephone wiretaps. It is known how many of these wall coverings were in the previous listening device system. These were probably the most accurate because they heard what they heard, and that's it. To be specific. We have a telephone centre under Ljubljana Castle where it says: KS Zadvor, KS this, KS this, KS this, KS so. So when someone wanted to hear something, he just went in there, picked up the phone and listened to what the then presidents were saying, say, local communities. But this is supposed to be the end of the system where we are. But with this particular case, we've seen what it is. That's terrifying, Your Honor. And that'll give people the benefit of the doubt. But personally, I have drawn something very important from this: that I continue to be a proud member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. By the way, what's the point of this wiretap? Get a public official, politics in the middle of business. Probably. And those dirty politics deals are probably connected to some kind of bribery and something like that, and look, here's what we can figure out. The minister did not once say in the entire conversation: “Well, you know, then there will be something there for me or for the client.” It's crucial to me. In all of these, you're saying it's an hour, I've only listened to the basics, and I haven't listened for an hour. But that's not it. You see, this is what you want to assign to the Slovenian Democratic Party, to this minister, in particular to the President, to act corruptly. You see, obviously in all the videos that exist, God knows how many of these there are, there isn't. Because if it were just one minister, one member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it would be before any elections, it would be on all important matters and some of them could already be in prison. Because even though you're using these criminal ones, you're using them. Obviously, because if there's a physical video, we have it in the country. All those who serve this have failed to be accused by any Member or Minister or President of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And they've done even more! Without concrete evidence - in an undetected location, undetected way, undetected amount - we even reached the indictment and prison. But I am firmly convinced, even as a Christian, that in the end the truth always wins. And even in this case, she won, so lying has no future. Just like there's no future system based on planting, lying, planting. He doesn't have this future, so I'm glad we're here where we are. However, I hope that those in this country who can do something in this area will have all the possible institutions for the protection of personal data, as well as the security of such and different ones, because we know that we are now at a time when everything can happen. If they have enough of my audio and visual data, they can turn this speech into something completely different; just the opposite of what I said. It is said that we are now coming at a time when no one will be able to believe what anyone has to say. But these are other stories. But the fact is that the purpose and purpose of this government and our ministers and the Minister of Vision is to work for people, which is very difficult for you to hear. Just one more piece of information, which has already been mentioned in the area of housing. What do we have in Slovenia? In Slovenia we have severe problems with too few or too expensive apartments, houses and the like, and in all these three areas this government has done more than anyone before. What did we do? If 340 apartments were previously provided, they are now provided from 2020 to 2023 2 000 360. But this is just one set, because Slovenians still want to create one of their nests and so on. Here comes the building legislation, the regulation of space in turn, which is to give all those objects that are not disputed in terms of the environment to legalise, because then, on the basis of a legalized facility, young people will be able to get credit for repairing, lifting, purchasing and similar. We know that if the facility is built without proper permission, then it is useless for a young family that wants order and, above all, a loan from the bank to be arranged. These areas are regulated. That's why the minister has my support, and it would be better if you really thought about it before you just go into destruction, but that really where there's something at stake for the general public, you warn. That's fine, but I don't see it with Minister Visian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u205	Thank you. I'll be very brief. A colleague said that young families want order, but at the same time he invites them to build up in black. Bravo! [[flat]] And now that you've said that lying for a long time doesn't win. Nice to meet you. Is that what you were going to say, basically, is that you're going to pull yourself together as SDS?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u206	We continue the debate. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor, followed by Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yes, we started this week with a debate on corruption and mafia governance with the country, and I think this debate is continuing today. At least it should be because the current Minister of Environment and Space is the exact symptoms of such governance with the country. If we remember, the "stupid tax" affair is not even the subject of this interpretation in its text. It is, however, significant; it is also relevant for all four points that are referred to by the applicants in this interpretation. What is crucial in this affair is not so much what it is about, how much money and what it is, but essentially the method – and this is the compatriot. We are talking about some Andre Visiak from Brežice, the then Minister of Economy, a member of the SDS party, and some Bojan Petan from Brežice, members or at least sympathizers of the then LDS. That's basically, I think, a symbol of that time. Visjak and Petan were not just two neighbors from Brežice, but they were one very specific tycoon that was created by the same government at the time by what it was doing, which was talking to the Minister of Economy about how to do something unorthodox. At least three. We would have tried to harm public finances when that government encouraged these management acquisitions during that period. And it was to these economists, if you want to call them that, that policy allowed these managers to do so. Here we saw this paidean suit of politics and then managers who were actually very nice, hand in hand, no matter what kind of political colors they belonged to, did what happened at the time of the manager's takeover. And what does then Minister Visjak do? It offers influence on the members of the Supervisory Board and offers third intimate parts of the Judges. I think it's a very nice illustration of how business ownership was done at the time. Speaking of tycoons and manager takeovers, I mean, this is one serious thing that happened back then. She was admitted to Kad, admitted to the Court, which at the time, I think, was led by my colleague Marko Pogačnik, or at the time by a member of New Slovenia. These management acquisitions caused, created the Bavcars, created the Shrotches, the Wallars, and so on. And what have these people done? They leased expensive loans so that they could take over those companies that then paid for these loans. And then there was the crisis. And what happened to us? Bank hole. And then a little later, at the end of the term, in the SDS, they remembered that they would become fighters against the tycoons — no? Fighters against their own children who created them. Just like today they represent themselves as those who actually want to solve things around a bank hole. You created, you are the fathers and mothers of the bank holes! Why is the story of the stupid tax not so innocent, and then we should look at what happened after these calls between Visian and Petan. Just remember how the National Press of Slovenia bought some companies from the brother of the Prime Minister of the Government; companies that sold souvenirs. And even in a number of ways. So, it's not a fight between the state, between Minister Visian, who was trying to protect the country, and some ugly economists or managers, but it's a typical dealing between two people who knew each other in one way or another, and we're seeing, in fact, a manual on how to create economic crime. The second thing we should be discussing today is what Senator Polnar announced in his speech when he spoke of lying as the essence of politics. I mean, it's also something that Minister Visjak is a symptom of. I mean, Minister Vizjak is a symptom of this lie as the essence of politics. And we have seen this several times today. For the first time, in the opening address, it says that the video, which was published in its entirety, takes a few ten minutes or an hour to read it again. If you just look at the responses of Minister Visiak. The first response is, it's a glue, then the second response is, let's wait for the statement of what the video is, then the third response was, I really talked to Mr Petan, the fourth response was, yeah, the video is real, but it's taken from the context. And today we come to the interpolation and hear how it's glue again. I don't think lying to Minister Visiaki is foreign. It also lies when it speaks of the Water Act and when it is essentially debasing the huge epic feat that took place at the initiative of citizens and citizens with a referendum on the Water Act. Look, it wasn't a novel of the Water Act, it was a novelty of the concrete law. And that's what no one thinks, the minister of course never says. The law stipulated that it could be built literally on waterbanks, as it were on water bodies. I think that these tendencies of Mr Visiak after concrete are very pronounced. The third lie, however, is that it is not a building law for a gift that is in some way a buy-back for Members or at least one of the members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners to support this government. I am talking about the black construction of Mr Simonovic, which the Minister claims is already able to legalise under 117th Article of the Construction Law, which is a lie. This 117th Article of the Construction Law provides that buildings which were built before 1 January 1998 may be legalised and not changed at that time. That's kind of what Mr. Simonovich was trying to prove, but he's 29. 7 last year, the Koper Administrative Unit rejected the application for legalisation and it is clear in this Decision that it does not meet the conditions because this facility was built after 1. 1. 1998 and because it grew because it didn't stay with those original 40 squares, but it grew. The roof changed, the roof grew, roofs were built, and so on, and of course it was never a tool shed, but it was a dwelling. Thus, it is possible to legalise this black construction under the existing law, a lie attached by the Koper Administrative Unit by its decision. To the conclusion. Once again, the problem is not so much content. I agree that this is a 14-year-old video and what has happened has happened; but there has been an economic crime in which the then economic minister of course was involved, but we will hardly do anything now. But this video reveals some logic to us. And this logic of action is that logic of action that understands the country as some kind of feud. I think that every time the Slovenian Democratic Party comes to power, we can monitor this very plastically and clearly. Between 2004 and 2008, the main of these state feuds was the economy with the then-owned and plundering economy, once again with the creation of tycoons and, consequently, a bank hole, and they have now apparently decided to disperse this robbery into all the other things left in that country, including the environment. The legislation proposed by Minister Vizjak in this mandate, despite all the lists of all coalition members, particularly SDS Members, clearly points to these purposes, that he is trying to relax the existing provisions as much as possible and, of course, favours certain areas, such as the Engineering Chamber, of which even Mr Aleš Hojs is a member. So below the line, I think it's very clear that we're actually facing the usurpation of power here, and what started between 2004 and 2008, there's probably no doubt that it's happening today. The Water Act has been an exclusive case, and new changes in construction legislation are a very similar case. In particular, I wonder whether it is really that easy to sell such things, the environment, space and related things, for some rich things, such as some black construction in Koper by Isolese Member Simonovic, or those few budget amendments for three million Slovenian national parties. I am even more surprised by the political environment that New Slovenia is supposed to represent, in fact, when it does not hope to speak against Minister Visiak in the way that we vote in favour of his resolution, the middle shows us all unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Jožef Horvat, followed by Mrs Mojca Škrynjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I always say that we can also be respectful in our deliberations. We don't know how to show the middle, it's the habit of some other. Respectable perhaps because today is such a beautiful day, December 17th, we remember, at least we, in New Slovenia, the event when it first breathed in the Slovenian Army, when Peterlet's government, despite the negativity of the then left, publicly demonstrated the defensive power of the Slovenian nation just before the plebiscite. We judge a man according to his actions, but of course each one is the master of his own word. Mag. I met Andrej Visiak for the first time in 2004, when I was first elected to the National Assembly, was Minister of Economy. One of such major joint projects – as you know I am a local patriot – was that I was asked from the local logs to ask for an appointment with the Minister of Economy. It was a German investor, Mr Schuler, who has now set up in my neighboring congregation — not now — a factory of motorhomes, prestigious, where 850 people are employed today, something like this. Of course, they wanted information on whether the country was promoting foreign direct investment. In 15 minutes, as far as I know, the minister told them to sign up, if they were successful, they'd be successful. And they were successful. This is one good story that will remain in such a pleasant memory. The current government is far from ideal. She's not perfect. She's nowhere in the world. We know the genies of this government, so that we don't forget just one sentence, if you allow me, this government was created because the boat's rumbling simply turned around and here I absolutely believe my fellow Member, Marjan, and that it wasn't easy for him, and we know exactly who ran this boat. But if we deepen this story, no one will have any of it. And then in New Slovenia, we thought that it would be better for the party to be true that we were going to the elections. But when we saw that a deadly virus had begun to be eradicated, we put a party before us, not a country, people. We did not know what the epidemic really meant, what this deadly virus meant; an epidemic that has not actually been declared legally correctly, but it is no longer important today. It took a lot of time, a lot of energy, even today, both to the Government and, of course, to the entire National Assembly, not to mention the Presidency, because today it is not a topic. However, I am pleased that, in fact, from everywhere in Europe, from the President of the Commission, the European Council, Commissioners, there is a series of praises for our Presidency. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Madam Vice President, may I continue? Thank you very much. Writing down the right of drinking water into the constitution, of course, is a matter of normality, not really a matter of constitution. In the then constitutional law, we wrote that the legislator or the government must prepare within 18 months all necessary changes to adequate legislation. It's not. It's not! Long months passed, now we have heard a little earlier, the minister promised that legislation would, but more than legislation, in my opinion, be an important realization of water supply projects so that it will not be forgotten, although it has already been said, but a repetitive mother studiorum est, since March 2020 a number of water supply projects have been implemented within the framework of the Agreement for the Development of the Regions mechanism, by March 2020 not a single project. Not one. Since March 2020, more than 50 smaller and larger investment projects totalling around €400 million have been approved. As far as water supply is concerned, I will save you some valuable time, I will not list all of them, it would be too long, maybe just a supply of drinking water, an armistice area of eight million investments, reconstruction of transit pipelines Košaki, Šentilj Municipality, Benedict Municipality – 2.6 million euros. And of course, I like Prekmurje, or Pomurje, that I am more precise, the upgrade of the system C, that is Prlecija, the value of the poor 11 million euros, and Goričko, Goričko, system B. We are a long time ago, I think it is about 12, maybe 15 years from what was signed a letter about the intention to supply Pomurje or the so-called Pomurski water supply, which was its time the largest cohesion project. It's far the biggest. That's why, and especially because Goričko didn't have any water. Do you know she doesn't have one today? She doesn't have one today. This system B, by the way, is 10, I think even 11 municipalities, the investment value of 36 million, of which 22 million are European funds. This project has been moved to our government into the next financial perspective. Yeah, it's true. Unbelievable, isn't it? I then encouraged myself to hope that this was not corruption by the Mayors of Gore and actually went intensively into obtaining all the permits, hard work, the documentation was reviewed by the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Minister gave his signature and then the SVRK. Finally, a few days ago, a contract was signed with the contractor. My electoral unit 8, i.e. for water supply, alone and only for water supply, 58 million, Pomurje, as I said, system B 36 million and system C 11 million, total 47 million. Of course, it is necessary to highlight and highlight a number of projects, but again it is only there from constituency 8, let's say. Several projects in the area of waste water disposal and treatment: drainage and cleaning in the Drava river, Ormož Municipality, 3.3 million euro, drainage and cleaning in the Drava river, Ptuj Municipality, value of the project 12.3 million euro. Quite interesting projects. But I don't want to bore you with this, because for those who don't live there, you don't, of course, it doesn't matter. When we walk on the ground or, rather, when the government is on field visits, we hear praises and even thanks from the mayors or all decision makers in a particular region. Let me mention here, in accordance with the Intervention Act to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments to start an economy after the covid-19 epidemic, in the area covered by, if I may say so, Minister Vizjak, for Pomurje, has a significant investment status – you know by law what this means – the restoration of wet habitats near Mura, Natura Mura, the start of implementation this year. And reduce the flood threat on the Mura river, phase one, start next year and implement further. And as I said before, plumbing, system B and system C. It's interesting, maybe you should start by saying, when I went right to my brother, say, on the third page of the interpretation, the address is the illegal and untransparent action of the minister to the detriment of the state. The third paragraph is the so-called "Terme Catež and Petan" or "stupid tax" affair. Otherwise it goes back to 2007 and so on and so forth. I thought and expected it to be at least somewhere mentioned, perhaps in a footnote, that the basis for this interpretation was actually illegally obtained hearings. It is a serious crime that is not mentioned here today, but you will remember, say, June this year, the Constitutional Court finds, the destruction of the hearings of Zoran Jankovic in the case of the Pharmaceutical was justified, the Constitutional Court has dealt with it. Then the key evidence in the Clean Blade was questioned, listening to John Zidar was supposed to be illegal, in 2009, and so on and so forth. Unjustifiable listening and recording shall be defined in Article 137 of the Penal Code. But as if this is not a topic, on the contrary; these illegal acts today are the basis of our debate. But we can still be respectful, as I said at the beginning. It's interesting that there have been some debates, but I'm not going to deal with individuals here because I'm going to be respectful. I'm just saying, it was interesting listening to them. Some have read the Bible, which is an excellent practice of each Parliament, I am glad that this is coming, this practice, this custom also in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because in the book of all books are written wonderful things for human life. Among other things, he writes: “Love your neighbor as yourself.” Today, it has already been said, the apparently Bethlehemic light of peace in the National Assembly has already produced its effects. Make it last! Minister Vizjak here I have to point out, although Minister Jernej Vrtovec has not yet been interinterpreted, the first ministers in the history of the independent Slovenia to undertake the regulation of geothermals. As you know, especially in Prekmurje, this geothermal potential is extremely strong, it is our only natural wealth, although it seems that we should no longer exploit it because it will no longer be allowed to spin by washing it with water. But anyway, because there was no help from Ljubljana in 1918. But the ministers were aware and aware – i.e. Vizjak and Vrtovac, both at V – that we have a commitment in the coalition contract to regulate the exploitation of geothermal energy. Minister Vrtovec, I think, defined in two of the three laws of this matter, Minister Vizjak recently published an amendment to the Regulation on the Emission of Substances and Heats in Disposal of Wastewater into Water and into Public Sewerage. What's this all about? This Regulation is the most stringent in Europe. So that some termites in Prekmurje – I will not do advertising because they are excellent and do not need advertising – they have a legal decision from the environmental inspector that they must shut down the activity. Yeah, you heard right! Even though they invested heavily in cooling this waste water. You know, or you don't know, and I'm not going to explain now that there's no chance of re-injecting because people in this water are digging. Among other things, they have around 60km of pipes in the country, but the water does not cool down as much as this senseless regulation, which is now being corrected by the minister or the government, is being amended more precisely, and I believe that it will be satisfied with all the high environmental standards. We have also heard something about public finances before, some wrong information, like sharing what we share, and we owe what we share. Look, lowering taxes – I mean, of course, the Income Law – is not a division; we will take less, or the country will take less. Why? Because you are, thank God, we can afford this moment. Why? Because the measures taken by the National Assembly at the time of the epidemic have been taken. Since they were effective and therefore kept the economy in good condition, of course they also helped people. And so today we can record record economic growth, record high employment, and so today we can record data – only two, three will count – that we have already exceeded the annual plan for income tax revenues by 127 million on yesterday. I'm talking about income. The corporate income tax, last day we exceeded the annual plan for 144 million, the tax revenue for 202 million exceeded on yesterday, the VAT practically knows that it is close to four billion – we are practically still missing about 100 million to reach the annual plan, but you know that the happy December will make up for it. Ladies and gentlemen, it's true, it's been a feeling for a while, maybe a month or more, than New Slovenia's been intertwined. Today we have heard quite a lot of pressure, but as we say, I say – the pressure on Members of the New Slovenia, but once again I say that we can be respectful in our discussions. We're in a dilemma, or leaning on the KUL side, right, here again thinking about respect, or maybe believing these illegal recordings of conversation, but ultimately people count their actions and by actions we judge people. But how will we vote, colleagues and colleagues, do not worry, as always: according to your conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Did I see it right? Yes, the replica, Mr Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u211	Yes, quite a short while, Madam President. I have one question, i.e., in the final work, colleague Horvat mentioned the difference between the so-called KUL opposition or the future coalition, and I hope that, and of course, what it means to move from words to action and that this moral attitude, which, as a policy, should slightly noble us in its actions, requires certain questions. Since I read an interview with the President of the Government, Janez Janša, in the client bulletin, on December 4th, this is the Democratic magazine where the journalist asks, we know that the journalist of this democracy has not actually asked in his own name, but asks whether there are any conversations between former NSI Vice-President and current director Dars Valentin Hajdinjak and the Minister of Infrastructure that are newer than that date. That's what the journalist asked the Prime Minister, just for a little while. We therefore wonder what the reason is for you to change your mind about this. Or perhaps, according to democracy, it is possible to determine whether there are really some recordings between your two prominent representatives, as spoke of by the President of the Government, and thus gives you a clear message of how you should behave today. The question is, I know it may be uncomfortably, but, according to the words spoken repeatedly legitimately, given the changed position of your party and the interview in the client newspaper with the Prime Minister of the Government, which can clearly send you a message of what awaits you in the event that you do not vote in such a way that this government remains until the last breath. As a representative of this house, I think I can also ask this answer of yours, because the general public must know the reason why Nova Slovenija changed her views. Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, let me just explain. If you did not listen to Mr German's debate, exactly what he was now explaining, debated and rhetorically wondered how you would vote. And now, Mr Chernigoj, if a German colleague used in his dictionary "let me ask you whether or not to ask myself" that does not mean that he is asking you personally. There is also a rhetorical question in the Slovenian language – isn't there? I have estimated that this is a replica because he was explaining his first debate where, respected colleagues from New Slovenia, he asked you about the vote today. So let's just be a little bit neat, but don't pretend. [[Extinguishing from the hall]] Don't get carried away, buddy Chernigoy. Well, if you don't mind, don't just talk through everything, because there's a lot of noise in this room and it's completely incorrect on your part. Yeah. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Comrade Horvath, what do you have? Procedural proposal? You can't have a replica because Mr. German had a replica. [[advertising from the hall]] I do not accept the replica because I estimate that Mr German has not made any false or false statements. It is rhetorical, though, that he can ask himself, himself in the replica, where he explains his original statement. Let's stop fooling around. We continue the debate. Mrs. Mojca the Boxer has the floor. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Once your colleagues from NSI and SDS have settled down, they will be able to discuss it. Mr Robert Pavšič is next prepared. Here you go, colleague, when your colleagues calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you. This government is not doing well, but doing well. The growth of gross social product is 7%, the lowest unemployment in the history of Slovenia, for science the most resources ever in the history of Slovenia, as well as for education at all levels. For health care it is intended, the law is passed for 2 billion investments in health care, both for hospitals and health homes. Homes for the elderly are being built, the Slovenian Army is being updated, we have received the Long-Terms Act, which we have been waiting for for 20 years. So this government is doing great. Minister Vizjak can also boast of the renewed construction legislation that simplifies procedures for people. He can boast of watercourses and housing. Housing is very important, especially for young families. But what is most important to us Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans is what Minister Vizjak has done to stop the construction of channel C0. What's channel C0? It is a sewer that leads from the municipalities of Vodice and Medvode to the Ljubljana cleaning plant. You'll say nothing wrong. It is. It's pretty wrong with that. First. In principle, these two congregations should have their own cleaning facilities clean up the nearest part of the city where this is taking place. But no, the sewer's going to a Ljubljana cleaner. The Ljubljanaers don't need anything like that. But the worst part is, this canal runs across a lake of drinking, clean drinking water. On Sava lies the left and right lake of pure drinking water, much like Lake Bohinj. It provides 90 per cent of pure drinking water for Ljubljana for all households, for 300,000 inhabitants and residents. Just think of what would happen if this channel began to leave either because of an earthquake or because of any violent attack. Let me remind you that in Slovenia there has already been a case of death of not a one-year-old child due to drinking water infected with feces. This was in the Los Valley in 2011. And the case of the second, 4 to 6-year-old child due to fever in drinking water, the Cerkno water supply. It is worth noting that in Vodarna Klec for more than 20 years they had to close the 12th pump well due to the spilling of only one spa from galvanisation in Shentvid. In the council of Ljubljana’s city world, we have always advocated that this construction stop. The right to drinking water is a constitutional category as well as private property. It was both broken. The municipality of Ljubljana and the C0 channel construction investor whistled on the legislation, the competent ministries and investigative authorities were moving and the last defender of our drinking water were poor active individuals and land owners, who were touched by the disputed route of the C0 channel. These constructions on Ježica in April 2019 were expected by tractors and other agricultural machinery, thus preventing them from starting the works since MOL did not have the corresponding contracts with them. This was November 2019. On the 25th. 11. In 2019 this National Assembly adopted a unanimous recommendation on the protection of drinking water in the Ljubljana aquifer area. In the first point, he recommended that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within its competences, immediately ensure respect for the constitutional and inalienable right to private property and the protection of all sources of drinking water as a constitutionally protected category by preparing appropriate legal bases and regulations for the enforcement of Article 70a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly then recommends, in the second point, that the Ministry of Environment and Space should, within its powers and on the basis of the legal means permitted by the current legislation, immediately take all measures by which, pending the acquisition of all the required documentation in the project and the environmental impact assessment, it retains or stops the construction of the C0 sewerage channel at the disputed foot of Brod to Ježica. And the National Assembly recommended that the Ministry of Environment and Space should, in the event of any irregularities identified resulting from the review of the procedure and other supervisory procedures, initiate appropriate criminal, disciplinary and civil liability procedures. He recommended at the last point of the Ministry of the Environment and Space to verify the correctness of the procedures for placing the pipeline route in the space. It's a signed mag. Dean Jedhan, then president of the National Assembly. 25. 11. This was adopted in 2019. Well, then nothing happened for a while, and then the new government came, March 2020, and Minister Vizjak initiated the appropriate procedures. Today you're wondering why there were some reorganizations. I wonder why they were just reorganizations. In view of what Arso then found that it was actually a completely incompatible building, so building that had nothing to do there was a question, but were really reorganisations enough. What was going on? Construction took place by dividing it into individual parcels and not requiring environmental consent for these parcels. It's a violation of the law. It is only Minister Vizjak who caused the City Municipality of Ljubljana to gain environmental consent for the entire route. That was pure law enforcement. But it's nobody's fault. In front of our eyes, this has been happening for years and years, and nothing has happened. Until, at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the recommendation of the National Assembly was made and the Minister of the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, stopped the construction. They're double vats. On the one hand, someone can sell cubic metres of a firehouse in the Cologne, but nothing happens to him, someone can, let a bank wash money, and nothing happens to her, and the one who rejects an action against such money laundering travels to Brussels for the prize as a delegated prosecutor. That's bad. Recording private conversations is criminal. What we have heard today means that at any time, wherever we expect someone to take our texts from this phone or read our texts — and in 14 years, blackmail will come in handy. Someone who went to the garden, stabbed himself in the rose and confused himself, was going to be filmed and then crossed 14 years later. You know, the fact that you think you're safe, that you can walk around, and that you're also talking completely unofficial things with friends, acquaintances, will all of a sudden become a luxury. We won't be able to do this anymore. Because by speaking today in such a way that it is intertwined because of this, that is, of course, the way to do what the SS, the KGB, did what Stasi did, what the Resurrection did. That's the way it is. While listening to someone listening to someone else’s phone calls about bribery, such listeners become obsolete, listening to someone talking to someone in a private conversation is a suggestion of some kind of interpretation. In addition, it is glued from different situations, from different spaces and from different times. Shame! And as my colleague Anja Bah Žibert would say, " Shame, shame, shame". And we're talking about this today, instead of talking about why the court hasn't done anything yet, and the prosecution hasn't taken any action against the money launderers of Iran. A billion 800 that went to Jake Racman's accounts and all the other stupid addresses that terrorists and arms dealers were hiding behind. That doesn't matter. The important thing is that someone said it was something stupid. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Apparently, a man buys Petrol's shares. And that's what all the institutes say about it, is that there's nothing wrong with it. That's obvious, not Iranian money laundering. It's a complete depravity. The tycoons, we know exactly when they were created under Markovich's legislation, in the days of Drnovsk's governments. And now all of a sudden, Dr. Vatovec is saying that this was what happened in the time of the Yangtze government. It's the perversion of communism. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] A lie is an immortal soul of communism. It's a lie. It's a dirty lie. And that's what you eat. Of course, I will not support the interpretation against the minister who saved Ljubljana from an unheard-of environmental disaster. He is the one who did the most for drinking water in this Slovenia, so today we are interpolating it. That's why! Among other things, we look at how some do not pay taxes, are suddenly exempt from all taxes, all debts, all; thirdly, they indicate money to terrorist traffickers, but that's all right. Minister Vizjak is because he saved Ljubljana's water because he saved our lives, one of the best ministers in the history of Slovenia, even if he said 100 times more that someone or something has done something stupid. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u214	Before I give you the replica, I really ask you, all of you, as well as you, Mrs Škrynjar, we stick to the content and let us respect ourselves, respect our code, which we have signed and accepted. We leave all the discredits, the insults aside. Look, let's sit down; we've been here since 10:00 in the morning. I politely ask everyone. Mrs. Tina Hefferle has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you, Vice President. I have a replica. I'm actually going to put it together. I still have a replica of a member of Horvath, because I had previously held a meeting, but I did not want to violate and abuse my functions, I now replicate it, and at the same time Mrs Škrnjar. Both of them were talking about alleged or illegal listening. Mr Horvat even cited certain criminal cases that had fallen due to unlawfully obtained hearings. I have already highlighted in my debate, and I will now be in the replica once again, so that maybe someone else will understand. We are not in criminal proceedings; it is not important to determine political responsibility whether the hearings are obtained lawfully or illegally; it is their authenticity. And Minister Visjak has repeatedly said that the hearings are genuine, even apologizing for one of the statements from these hearings, so let's stop gossiping. Mr. Horvath said there was a crime in the Penal Code that was persecuting this act. Of course, we have the crime of unwarranted listening and sound recording, as defined in Article 148 of the Penal Code, but I have already indicated in my debate, in essence, that Minister Vizjak has a legitimate right to his satisfaction, to seek justice. If someone has illegally recorded and committed a crime, it is likely that the law enforcement authority will be able to prosecute him, perhaps even on a proposal from the minister. But it is necessary to know that today we are deciding in the context of the interpolation on political responsibility; and once again, the legality of the hearings which the Minister himself admits to be authentic, that his voice is — that the glue is a quasi, with all due respect, a ton expert – and on the other hand the author or the holder of these hearings claims that they have gone through a no-verification procedure that is a criterion for the quality and authenticity of some recordings in the European Council. In short, stop deceiving yourself and deceiving the public, who may still be following us after 12 hours, for the minister's political responsibility, for the said words to break the judge's balls, but you don't have to judge and judge whether the hearing is legal or not. This is a fact, it is a fact and not to deceive people who may not know this fact about the difference between prosecution and political responsibility. I hope they heard my replica now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, prepare to be Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u217	Heard it, heard it, it's only a question if they understood it. This debate is developing interestingly and increasingly trivial. Attention is focused not on the one that is intertwined, but on the other people, especially on Petan, but on the left-hand political currents, but on the currents that are not SDS. In short, the whole world has once again conspired against the minister, then against the SDS party, and eventually probably against the prime minister. It's an illegal recording. They shot him when he said something stupid. What if the minister was watching what he was saying? That would be better. The Minister is going to lunch or I don't know where he is with a famous businessman and he's using a very dirty language, he admits he's trying to influence the courts, and now he's going to blame the guy who shot him. Yeah, let him answer! Let them find him, have the court charge him, but that doesn't clear the minister of responsibility. The minister said that, but he didn't just say that. There's more to it than that. Is that a shame? Yes, it's a shame that the Minister of the Economy said that. And yes, the minister is doing really well! Let's just say it was a great moment with Petrol just before the record dividends. He had a great influence on the change in the supervisory board, he also had an excellent recognition today, he had an impact on the ban on the construction of additional petrol services, and he had an excellent and random purchase of shares in front of it. Okay, let's say we skip it, look through his fingers, and say, there's nothing wrong with it, of course, in the notes. Yes! It's a kleptocracy. That's how you decide to do it, because this damage is financially remediable after all. What is unacceptable and unforgivable is not forgiving, but is interference with environmental legislation. It was not only the Waters Act, which was so theatrical and clairvoyant and with a huge number of votes fell at the referendum, but not just the law that was at the forefront. I remember all the long debates on the Infrastructure Committee just before the Water Act, when we were here defending the NGOs that the Minister had listened to with his proposals to move out of environmental licensing procedures, and we barely solved them. This was intended all the time, only once through this law, once through another law, once through this regulation; again again the same purpose with another tool. But in the environment, and even in the waters, we play with the generations that come after us, and with us. Remember how just a few hundred liters of kerosene almost destroyed all of Istria’s water supply! Then the Minister says, “in accordance with all the rules in accordance with all the laws” – for 14 days, a very important law for public treatment, okay comes to Parliament, and then Parliament starts to table amendments allowing the construction of factories with dangerous substances in water protection areas. The government, of course, blesses this in its opinion, even though we know how laws are being amended. Here the government is proposing amendments, because how many times have we heard this, although it is not possible to process. The government is proposing amendments. What would happen if this happened and something really happened? If Mr. Horvath was already telling his local stories, I'll do one more. If this law had been passed, as the Government had proposed it and had been amended by the Government, we could build a dangerous substance factory on Poček. Shooting is also very burdensome for the environment and for people. What would happen? Couple 10, couple 100 liters of some dangerous substance and so on. [[shows with gesture]] , 20,000 people left without water. And that's perfectly normal for an environmental minister. This is inconceivable to me and then praise him with some water protection regulations. The check where the military has been carrying out activities has been without a water protection regulation for 20 years. Minister Leban has already promised her, promised by Minister Zajc, now promised by Minister Vizjak, but nothing moves forward. He mentioned it to me last time from the Department of Defense. What does the Ministry of Defence have with the Water Protection Regulation? Because there are always new interests in the background! Well, look, we can play with the money, we can look for how not to, how to pick up something by the environment, by the water, and there's no retreat here. And never will be. And that's not a political question. And if it is not clear to you that the referendum on the Water Act here was not a political issue, it was a matter of the future and credibility of this Minister. And if his signal was almost 900,000 people not enough to believe him, then I really don't know what we're talking about anymore. The people gave him an unbelief! And we're here today talking about whether he bought Petrol's shares, whether he bought Telekom's shares, or whether he squeezed the judges' balls. It's essential. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Stupid taxes are stupid anyway. [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's probably what a lot of us think, but we're still paying them because we're responsible. But in the environmental field, it is important to be very careful, not only at Poček, not only on the Istrian water supply, not only in Anhove, but also in the Tropics in Hrastnik [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I know it's hard, Mr. Secretary. I know it's really hard, it's hard physically to deal with 90 people, but maybe if not another, we'll at least talk about the most crucial things. There are some things that can be apologized for, justified, but not in some matters. And that's what's most important. We can't change the law because we're going to build on the shores or on waterfront areas. We can't change it, no matter what. What's built so far is over, let's leave something for the next generation. Let's stop messing with nature and let nature go back to where it could go. [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! After 12 hours and 22 minutes, all I got was a word. Otherwise, in today's debate there was a lot of things to be heard, I will say, given that I listened to all these 12 hours of this debate, that half of this debate was completely different than the interpretation that goes on at four points. But yes, we have heard everything; of these water pipelines in Ljubljana something is done, of the local actions being carried out, and all that the minister has also done. Some things have absolutely moved at this time. But also the minister, who has been responding for almost two hours today, has been repeating the same thing, the same thing and the same thing and the same thing. The one who really listened to this was, in fact, in a state of disdain. Minister, I will most likely repeat the words spoken a thousand times, and you don't have to answer me, because I'm sure you've already said them 15 times today. I listened to your opening remarks. I was extremely disappointed with him. And let me tell you, he was extremely energetic, so energetic that I had to leave the hall because you were so loud that I just started to get a headache. Let's just drop it. You were talking about Petan. At first I thought whether I was at the right point at the right meeting, but then you just went a little bit further and you pointed out that interpellation is an elephant on illegal recordings, or you even said that it was a "hearings from 14 years ago" that it was a mounted affair. And I'm going to say that -- is that right? First of all, Minister, illegal listening, and even if it was an illegal recording, you, as Minister, should never have been allowed to do that, never and never. At the time you were Minister of Economy, today you are an environmental minister, and as an official at such a high level you must never, ever afford such an expression, which is or has ever been assembled, but you must say that it is stupid taxes. Sorry, that's not how it works. And then we ask ourselves why citizens and citizens do not respect the Constitution, the laws, the rule of law in the country if the very top policy does not! And he's not capable of that. It really saddens me, but at the same time it worries me what is being done in our country. And yes, Your Honor, at the beginning of your term, I heard a gesture that you would be the most effective minister in this government. I really hoped that this would also be done; that you would protect the public interest, save our environment, ensure that inspection services would do all the necessary checks, introduce procedures and protect our natural wealth. I also expected you to keep that promise. Of course, we have written down water in the Constitution and the laws are waiting and waiting and waiting. You already said today we're expecting them by the end of the year. We'll see. I look forward to seeing them too. And yes, you also said, I mean, it was considered for you not to be dumping waste into the natural environment, and since all my predecessors have also talked about the local environment, I will say that in the Russians waste is being absorbed into the natural environment. We're calling. I don't know how many times. Because what's going on, we're going to become a really big dump, and I'm going to say it's illegal in my judgment. But I believe, Minister – at least I hope – that you are aware of this, because what is happening in this area at the former Nitrogen Plant Ruše – is a disaster! And when it does, there will be an ecological disaster. And it's true. [[…]] What I have said is that you will act transparently, do things, protect public interest, I must say, is everything else. They are more reminded of your actions towards a participatory, corrupt, unfortunately harmful, and perhaps even illegal action, which, of course, is also evidenced by an outspoken affair that shows an understanding of your political culture and democratic standards. If I touch the stupid taxes, or you were the Minister of Economy at the time, the question arises where it leads. When the media discovered, you were urging the Slovenian tycoon to do the Termes business in such a way that it would not be necessary to pay the tax. You have even declared to the person in question that it seems foolish to pay the tax if it is possible to avoid it. In exchange, however, the country's cooperation in the supervisory and staffing sector in Terme Catež is to be promised. So, the Minister of Environment and Space, your suggestion to avoid paying the tax, could even say instigation, is almost a crime or at least a suspected crime service. You have also been proud to say in your introduction today that you have arranged a concession in this government for Terme Catež, which, with the previous €80,000 and €100,000 of an annual concession today, will pay as much as €400,000 per year. But at the same time, you forgot to say that they're pumping almost a million pounds of water today instead of those former 250,000 cubic liters of water. So, the concession is justifiably so much higher. But that still doesn't take away your behavior 14 years ago. And you were also talking about buying up Petrol's shares. You stated that you purchased the shares of Petrol in March and May last year when the Government extended the regulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. Dear Minister, I quote what you said today: "By the way, the deregulation started long ago, in 2016, when we first deregulated the fuel oil, then we deregulated the prices of oil derivatives on highways and then off highways in September 2020. In short, the process of deregulation began substantially before that. And look, I was buying shares in March and May, when there was no spirit or hearing about deregulation, because it was extended by March of the regulation until autumn. And anyone, your honor, could buy any one of you as early as October after deregulation at the same price as it was in March and May. Share prices were then 300 Euros for the whole October for the stock and anyone could buy it. Everyone. Why didn't you?" I'll finish your quote. Yeah, and that's an interesting statement. The deregulation began in 2016, Minister of Respect. Then state that you bought them in March and May 2020, when there was no spirit or hearing about deregulation. Before that, you said, 2016 was a deregulation. Really, I mean, strange; either you're joking or you think I'm stupid. But yes, you knew by that time of March that there would be a deregulation of oil derivatives, since you were already almost a member of the government in March. I don't think I'm wrong, and we know that. You bought shares for 120 thousand euros. Can any of the citizens and citizens afford such a large purchase? Absolutely not every citizen, most likely more wealthy. And it's even worse when you say that everyone can buy shares for 300 euros so they can buy by the end of October. Minister, which of the ordinary citizens and citizens can buy this? People, citizens and citizens barely go from month to month, and this can be afforded by the richest, I apologize. You can hide as much as you like. Or they can buy those who know that this will not be a risky business or that they have borrowed it and that they can then have a return. I think you can stop this deception and deception, because people simply know that ordinary citizens and citizens cannot afford it. Just for the end of the Water Act. It seems that you have been motivated to accept it, even though there have been clear and loud warnings from civil society, professions, environmental organisations, that the solutions proposed are not good, that they are not in line with better and environmentally friendly management of our great wealth – indeed this water that we need to keep. But all together, you whistled and insisted on your own, but you got one big earring in the middle of the summer at the referendum. We also had to make an urgent effort to get her into that deadline and to engage citizens and citizens. And 682 thousand 760 citizens and citizens have given you a clear mistrust. Unfortunately, it wasn't just you and the bill, but it was the untrust of the entire government. And I would have expected and expected that they would have stepped down as a politician with such a long kilometre back then. You've lost the trust of people, which is the most important virtue on which it's built, otherwise it's lost. Otherwise, you haven't lost your ministerial office yet, as it seems, or you won't be doing it today. But you have lost all credibility, including what I was talking about at the outset, that you will be the most effective minister in this government. Even what was said today by the NSI political group is likely to follow their conscience and vote, but if they abstain, their voice means they support you. However, in view of the debate of colleague Joseph Horvath, I think that this will be the case, because he did one of the glory of your actions in his constituency, and that is how he did. But basically, a respected minister, given the trust you've lost, it would be best for you to step down on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u220	The word is given by Minister Andrej Vizjak. And here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u221	Dear Member, I have never had any confidence in you or your client. You didn't support me as Minister either, and it's really a hoax when you tell me I don't have him anymore. I didn't have it either at the beginning of my term or ever, whenever I was appointed Minister. That's one thing. The other thing is that your client behaves in this interpretation and this referendum on water very double. Party SD, SD ministers have lost four referendums with approximately the same convincing majority. Your Minister, Rado Bohinc, in the so-called technical law on deleted persons, which went to the referendum, experienced a 95 percent rejection. 95 percent of the voters and voters rejected that law. Has Mr. Bohic resigned? No, no. If you'd read the interpolation, I'd have written it all in, and now you're looking strangely at yourself. The second minister, Dr. Ivan Svetnik, lost three referendums in a row from 2021 to 2011, sorry. He lost his referendum on the Small Work Act, pension reform at the time and the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. He lost all these referenda? Did Mr. Svetlik give up? He didn't give up! He continued his post and was rewarded when he became Rector of the University of Ljubljana, the highest, largest university in the Republic of Slovenia. It's a prize for three lost referendums. And now, with your morals and double-crossing, you read to me here and you expect my resignation. Take a look at yourself in the spaghetti and then you'll see this seduction and the double vats for the same thing. What you're talking about Terme Catež is a proven lie. The termem Catež did not increase the amount of water pumping, but we only legalized the situation because they pumped more water. The professional bases published in the Geological Survey report show that the quantity of water pumped on this aquifer has been higher in the past and that we have now reduced them considerably and thus stabilized the situation. So now the Termes pay as much water as they use it, and before this concession, no one knew how much water they were pumping, and they didn't know how to deal with that water. It is more than obvious that we have arranged one thing, and it obviously bothers someone that we have settled the matter in this area once and thus protected the groundwater source of thermal water from further exhaustion and pillaging by individual carefree people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Replica first, Mrs. Mursic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u223	Yeah, I'll be brief. In fact, you said I was two-faced. I'm not two-faced. What was in previous governments and how ministers acted is their business. I'm only talking about myself. That you didn't trust me. I'll say, did you hear me at the beginning? We put great hopes in you because it was just said that you would be one of the most operational ministers. Furthermore, a fellow Jew who had a discussion greatly commended you in his debate, at least from the point of view in which you participated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u224	Mr Matjaž German also has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u225	I would only respond to this boisterous response from the minister, especially when he spoke about our political party, which has a long tradition, especially because we were able to apologize several times for the inconveniences we have done historically, and we have also transformed ourselves into a modern social democratic party. Mr Vizjak mentioned some of the predecessors before us, including Mr Svetlik, who was not to give up this referendum, this referendum Sunday was lost. Let me remind you, Your Honor, of what is unacceptable to you. At that time, Prime Minister Pahor resigned or lost his mandate as an untrustworthy person, and we then assessed that it was best to go to the elections. And this has also happened, which is impossible in today's constitution, because you will not leave this position, even if we do not get a video of those Petan meetings. As far as Mr. Bohintz is concerned. Mr Bohinc certainly did not talk to Petan, Mr Bohinc certainly did not buy the shares of Petrol or any other company. With regard to the referendum defeat that you have suffered, which is one of the greatest in history, we only read as one of the sins that you have committed in recent years and which, according to some of the moral duties of politics in force in the Western world, according to some tradition, should have been waived long ago. But the Slovenian Democratic Party can't get through this, it can't get past these values and some self-reflection, so that the Prime Minister can actually come here and put himself on the line or not. It's unimaginable to you. That's why we can live with it, and you can't, and we can look in the mirror every morning, but I'm not sure you can. Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec has the word to prepare Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, with co-worker, colleagues, colleagues, all together a nice evening greeting! But it is a fact that after 10:00 we have at least as many order in the National Assembly and no one is breaking up. If I start with the Constitution, art. 118, interpellation. “At least 10 Members may initiate interpretation in the National Assembly of the work of the Government or of the individual minister.” About the work of the Government or the individual minister. Today, about 70 percent of the time, at least representatives or advocates of interpretation, are talking about 2007. I am so afraid that by the end of this term, there will be some kind of interpretation where they will talk about the responsibility of a minister from that government, I think in 1993, when the SDS was part of the coalition for a while, when some walls may have been in a government building or walls in this former congregation system or in this space, perhaps even more heard than was allowed. Today it has been said, let's talk about the future, we are talking about water, how important it is, but once again, 70 percent of the time you're talking about interpellation candidates in 2007. So history is told by those who say that history is not important, that history is a new fact or that it is an important future. I will talk a little more about the future later – or at least about the present – which will prove that there is no point in supporting today's interpretation. In short, it is very important to me what the Minister is doing today and what he will do by the end of his term of office. I very much like the fact that Minister Visjak is very active in December not only in the National Assembly, but also in the Government. If I only remember the recordings of one former minister when they asked what she would do from Wednesday November until the end of the year, she said: "November is, nothing can be done. It's November." And the story was closed. If you look at the website of the Ministry of Environment and Space in 2021, you see what projects were being implemented, which projects are being implemented, what will happen by the end of the year; in short, they did not sleep half of November and the whole December, but the minister with his team is working. I think this reference to the period 2007 is a bit pathetic, if not even stupid. Let us leave aside these illegal hearings, which some say are not a problem of illegal wiretapping, but it is probably a topic for another instance and another institution. However, as someone who comes from Posavje, I may say only two sentences that, unfortunately, Minister Vizjak, as a different minister, failed to agree successfully with the director of Terme Catež. Unfortunately. Because I don't know how many of you have been in Terme Catež in recent years, but when I watched a movie a few months ago about Chernobyl and some empty pools, unfortunately the story — unfortunately — is not much better. When I look at the pictures of the plates falling off, the broken cabins, and the way things are doing things here and there, in the Termes of Catež; yes, I'm sorry that the minister didn't convince the director to give instead of the country, he gave what he owned to give the company a bright future. And instead of starting to recover successfully in 2007, we unfortunately have a problem in 2021 in Posavje called Poor Terme Catež. The perceptions of the interpellation candidates are, in my opinion, quite ridiculous, flat-rate and, in my opinion, even written elsewhere. Probably written in the offices of those who are very afraid of what the Environmental Protection Act will bring, because I personally do not believe in coincidence, and attacks by so-called garbage media in recent months, weeks and even today show that what the minister is doing is worrying a lot. Only the first prediction of the Environmental Protection Act, that there will be a comprehensive management of waste, is likely to cut off the ankles, knees and shake his hands, because he knows that he will no longer be able to sponsor himself, his friends, and probably even through advertisements part of the policy. So, Minister, I expect the Environmental Protection Act to be on our benches as soon as possible, so we can hold our fins to these garbage lobby. Today, much has been said or discussed about whether we have an operational minister or have an inoperable minister. I have been in the National Assembly for so long that I know roughly how individual ministries work and I will not mention in my opinion two more ministers who are worse at work. I just remember about when we tried – I think in 2012 in the current government – to bring together the agricultural and environmental ministry and we wanted to say, and now everyone will work together and they will change inside the house. But the whole previous issue, which was in the field of environment and space, continued because that government had only a one-year mandate. And just as I've been following up on the stories of the last five, six years, what's been going on at the Ministry of Environment and Space or, unfortunately, what hasn't happened at the Ministry of Environment and Space is the extreme and recent time that someone has come to this ministry who has experience with the local level as a mayor who knows where the problems are, and also as a former minister in another area, as a former Member knows how to get officials to start working. When I was monitoring one of the press conferences, when it was said how many major and smaller investment projects there have been in the last 18 months, what will happen in the area of environment and space also with support through the Resistance Plan, what will happen through the provision of clean drinking water supply, what will happen at the beach rehabilitation, what will be done in the rehabilitation of watercourses and everything else, I must say that after those ministers who signed a regulation and regulation in mid-November and then went to winter sleep, we have finally a minister working all 12 months. Since I come from Posavje, of course, one Posav's key point is the Sava River. I regret that despite all the efforts of the current minister, we are no closer to completing the Mokrica hydropower plant. All those who talk so much about water are in Posav because we don't have complete hydropower plant Mokrica, more problems. One is environmental when the inhabitants of individual villages in that part wonder whether floods will ever occur again, as they did in Sevnica and Krška. Probably it is not easy for those people to fall asleep on each flood when they have been listening to the rains of the third night, because we do not have a finished hydroelectric power plant Mokrica, and economic damage is done. Unfortunately, however, the financial consequences of this national council are often not of interest, although they are often spoken of. That is why I like it, despite the fact that non-governments who cooperate with individual left-wing parties in one way or another to make a breakthrough at the beginning of at least placing hydropower plants on the Central Sava, where it is not concrete, as we hear from some extreme left-wingers, but to edit the Sava River, for better water, for better road connections, and especially for urgently needed renewable energy sources. But once again, there is a lot of debate on renewable energy in the left political field, but when we have a chance to do something, that same political gender is against it. I would only point out housing problems or housing legislation with the Minister of Operations. The former ministers slept here, made 30 to 40 apartments a year, and this minister, with the help of the government, with the help of the Housing Fund, which he finally started working on, and also partly with the help of European funds, began to do what left-wing people talk about – that is to say, to solve the housing problem – but what left-wing people are saying is what we are doing on the right. Above all, given the fact that I recall one coalition coordination in 2005, when Minister Podobnik was with two co-workers, when we were also saving the Spatial Planning Act and the Spatial Planning Act, we heard wonderful words – I was an expert collaborator, but Members and others from the Coalition – we heard wonderful words. When these laws are adopted, all municipalities in Slovenia will have accepted spatial plans within two years. But from 2005 to 2021, we went from worse to worse. In recent days, when I talk to those who care about municipal spatial plans, municipal spatial detailed plans and implementing acts, everyone thanks how much easier this legislation will be not only for investors, but also for those who will prepare these spatial plans and, finally, for the municipalities that will adopt them. To conclude, perhaps two more matters. There's one thing the minister's already mentioned. Now, if the fall of the referendum was the cause of any interpellation or resignation of the minister, then individual ministers from the left governments would fall even three times a week, but they were not brave enough to step down, and now representatives of those same parties say what others should do. Slow, pathetic, but history may judge. As far as the Water Act is concerned. I still argue that the Water Act would bring a lot of good things, but different NGOs, with the help of part of the policy and with the help of that garbage press elite, have turned this law into a political fight and instead of funding more resources for the construction and rehabilitation of watercourses, now individual Members, as I hear, are coming to the minister and asking him when he will arrange watercourses. These are also those MPs and mayors of those political parties who have opposed this by getting more funds from the Water Act for storms and watercourses. Speaking of water, look who sold the water companies. Who sold Costello? And I'm gonna end up here about the water. I will end by saying that, given that we all behave in part locally, I will thank Minister Viszak for having carried out at least five or six important projects for Posavje, which were not even implemented by previous ministers because they did not even want to hear about: hydraulic improvements in the municipalities of Brežica and Bistrica ob Sotla, hydraulic improvements in the Municipality of Sevnica, separation and cleaning in the valley of the lower Sava Municipality of Krka, removal and cleaning of waste water in the river of the lower Sava Municipality of Sevnica, measures to reduce flood risk, Kostanjevica na Krka. These are projects that the previous ministers have not heard of, not because they started sleeping in the middle of November, but because they were not interested in environmental legislation and, above all, in the problems of people on the ground. The achievements of the Ministry of Environment and Space in 2020-2021 show that this minister and his team have a field hearing, and therefore all the arguments are given that I will not support the interpretation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u228	Thank you very much. There has been a change in the list of discussers, so Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare the mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, I will talk again and again about what we discussed at the beginning of Monday is the mafia governance of the country and corruption. Either the right hand is trying to pull itself out or all those who claim to be the middle, the facts are perfectly clear. I'll give you the facts now. As Minister of the Environment, Mr Vizjak, you are probably aware of the responsibility you have assumed by oath in this National Assembly before us. This requires you to comply with the Constitution, laws and all other regulations in the Republic of Slovenia. In response to interpolation, you reject any evidence of breach of these obligations. And I want to know where that confidence you have is getting. I mean, you obviously have it in store, because a normal person, if you forgive that expression, would feel very bad after all this listening and revealing. But you are more concerned with the fact that this was illegal recording, and you do not even get to the point where you finally realize that it was an illegal act and, above all, immeasurably primitiveism. If you're talking about editing. I mean, I know how the footage works, because it's my profession, which is what we're going to build it out of. If you were talking about squeezed lemons, let's say, if you said, I don't know, about the chicken eggs that the neighbor was producing, and then we'd give you, we'd squeeze the lemons a little bit, and then we'd cut out a lot of eggs, and then we'd say, we'd squeeze the judges' balls. What are you talking about? You're actually making fun of the National Assembly, of the citizens, but mostly of the money, you know. Because you yourself said that the state of Slovenia was harmed by 100 million euros. You know what I could do with this money, but I'm not going to mention the poor pensioners, the hungry kids and so on. In short, Mr. Visac. This is similar to your Prime Minister's when he says we're going to make an order in health, but he goes directly to the yacht with the biggest profiteers and the tycoons in health a little boat there, and then he goes to play a little golf on Mauritius and the question where else. In short, always: catch a thief. You're pointing at Petan now, but in fact you were the one who took him, or perhaps not so hard, but you were negotiating into really unacceptable practices. It is not surprising, therefore, that a minister, but we know what salaries are in the public sector, can buy shares for 120 000 euros, as colleagues have mentioned earlier. It's probably not something anyone can do. But you know, we don't envy you money. Money won't save you. Absolutely not. But it is so that your colleague Zdravko says, “This is not about the left or right, it is only about the euro”. So stop hitting us with such a banal; you've reached the late Drnovsk, you there that you've been discussing. Catastrophe. The fact is that the SDS caused the tycunization of Slovenia. And with the pressure on the judiciary you created the Bavkars, the Wallers, the Scorchs. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, buddy! And all kinds of banana-cocaine bosses. In a nutshell! And then it happens that Mr Rajko Janša gets quite the transfer of funds into the account and it all goes to the expense of some of the family members of Janez Janša and it is clear that it cannot be established and that the unknown origin is as much as EUR 200 000, that Djudžić is sending 500,000 from Bosnia and so on. Not to mention the Construction Law and buying a member who currently holds the presidency, I'm a little embarrassed and I'm really sorry. In short, the Water Act, which was outsourced, gave you a clear mistrust. But listen, in your work you have violated at least the Law on State Administration, the Resolution on the Regulatory Activities of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Your conduct in the following cases shall comply with all the signs of the offence of Article 257.a. of the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. You know, as minister, you run this ministry and you represent it, you're also responsible for its work, and the essence of this ministry as part of the state administration is – what? Writing regulations! For these regulations and laws apply the policy of the State, and determine the conduct of individuals therein. And the key rules under which public authorities are obliged to act are the Law on State Administration and the Resolution on Regulatory Activities adopted by this National Assembly. And both of you are committed to serious and responsible work in this area, that is, writing and drafting regulations. It is therefore necessary to adopt these rules within the Ministry of Environment and Space in some way. But it happened to you and you knowingly did it and repeatedly violated this provision, because your first change when you came to the Ministry of Environment and Space was a change in the systematization and organisation of the Ministry. So this was the termination of the Environment and Space System Service. Well, and because they have been an obstacle to you in achieving your goals after flexing spatial legislation since you became a representative of the investor, this is the power plant companies on the lower Sava, came in contact with this legal profession at the Ministry of Environment and Space, of course because you became their boss, you immediately placed them somewhere to guard the cabinets, and the legislation that these employees should write gave to external legal offices. It is said that legislation is being loosened according to the level of users, but unfortunately not in a perfectly correct and appropriate way. That's why you've opened up a lot of opportunities for gray zones in this legislation. I am very sorry that my fellow Members, who have declared themselves to be the middle, who are not at this time, see no further than their personal and political interest and they are in the public interest, this is the protection of the environment and the space for our craftsmen, very little care. Otherwise, we would understand if we had a handful of news about the possibility of setting up temporary warehouses without documented documentation, which, by the way, is considered to be “a great contribution to the economy, to changing the classical institutes of ZUP according to the needs and ideas of the engineers”, and all that has been so beautifully and visually written in its opinion by the Legal Section of the National Assembly. I understand that the minister is leaving because I have a lot to say to him. I hope you'll at least take a look at the magnetogram. But you terminated your service and signed a contract with an external law firm without any reference to writing regulations, but with good connections through family and family ties, which are from when you were working on the lower Sava. Thank you so much for coming back. In short, this lady, Mrs Branka, is a very well-known name in energy. Of course, it is not a coincidence that this law firm, which is business related to your previous employer HESS, d. o. o. – In just two years, HESS ordered this lawyer's office almost 60,000 euros. Now, maybe this amount also includes some kind of business cooperation of a law firm with the Ministry, so you don't accidentally get too much in your eyes when you look at Erar. That's possible, too. Look, I've got a bunch of documents here, and it's possible. What are we talking about? We're talking about corruption. And here comes, of course, Desus, and in this context, the Member represented by the same lawyer. So, money is colorless, smelly. If you want to see where the scoundrel is, sometimes they say follow the money – when you follow the money, you find out a lot. In short, the violation of the resolution on normative activities continued with an even greater dimension, of course because none of you can do anything – What can they do to us – at the Directorate for the Environment. [[…]] Then you also hired your home friend Shadow Plitschanič. And yes, you have heard that, so far, Mr. friend Vizjak, his home friend, family friend, has ordered him almost a million euros of your tax money. Mr. Visjak, you can laugh, but there are contracts. [[advertising from the hall]] You lied last time, you lied hard, Mr. Vizjak. See, there is evidence and there is also access to information of a public nature. The lie you've been repeating here all along is already the cause of your shameful retreat. In short, Mr Pličanič, your home friend, has set up a company that is not even a taxpayer because it is so frivolous, precisely to work for you. And the covenants multiplied, and the annexes also: but it began with the writing of your fallen Law on waters. Of course, the law was a disaster. And then it continued with the regulations, with the PSC, with legal analyses, and legal support for selecting already selected concessionaires. And don't tell me it's not true, contracts are worth 20,000, 130 thousand, 90 thousand, 180 thousand, 196 thousand, 150 thousand euros. Mr. Visac, who do you think you're crazy about? How can you lie, sit and look at us? This isn't the end of these contracts. So I'm going to ask you why you gave your friend a million euros -- our money, not your money -- to writing regulations in the work area of the Environment Directorate. With yours do whatever you want: buy shares, don't know, invest whatever you want, but look, this is about responsibility for our money. Mr Pličanič is an entrepreneur on the market, but he makes legal opinions, okay. I do not want to make an assessment of his work, because I am not really a legal expert or competent for it, but I would like to point out that what is called in this case represents the interest of the contracting authority. In particular, it also appears in the role of the debtor in accordance with the provisions of the PSC. Here, you know, we've come up with a very thin ice, and no matter what it is, it's almost minus. I am talking in particular about the interpretation of the termination of the status of waste produced by the designated company for the purposes of Termit, d. d., from Moravč. Do you know what I'm talking about, Minister? You know! Shall I show you some more paper? And since all this is done with the conduct and consent of you, the Minister and your Secretary of State, the situation is extremely conflicted. What do you say to that, sir and ma'am? Hmm? Here are the enormous amounts of contracts and citizens, Members of Parliament mostly – let us leave those who also probably have some interest in it – and the people in the ministry you are running this moment – we hope not for long – do not trust you anymore. For policies are guided by writing down solutions that are not only controversial, but also a violation of Slovenia's reputation before Europe. I'll give you one last case. We received it at the National Assembly this month, and this is the Environmental Protection Act written by your designated friend Senko Plitcanič. As he himself said publicly, with enormous efforts, at unslept weekends and thus saved this country millions of euros. And, as he says, it is a living example of writing regulations contrary to the relevant rules of the European Union, to the extent and for the benefit of individuals and we are classified in one of the written fields between comparable countries, and I mean comparable countries of the European Union, side by side and society with only one other country. Do you know which one? Bulgaria. Do we want to compare ourselves with them? Yeah, we're getting more and more in this east. But I've mentioned Bulgaria once before how the Bulgarian dictator ended up, and then you jumped into a luft. In short, these are cases of apparent non-compliance with European Union law. And here's a key document that should make you really ashamed. Of course you're not a lawyer, but I think you're a contracting officer and you should stand for it, because the legal opinion of the State Attorney of the Republic of Slovenia – you're on to it. What did you say in your arrogant, rude, primitive, overconfident manners? You said, "you won't listen to Grandma." Should we then wonder if you are saying that you will rub the balls of judges, or should we wonder if they are stupid taxes, or should we be surprised at such a dictionary? You're having trouble recording, but you're not having a problem with your behavior, which is unworthy of one person in a position of leadership in the country. And “you will not listen” was your comment on their professional and in-depth analysis, regulation, matter and termination of the status of waste in the Slovenian legal order, which relates to the legal order of the European Union. It clearly states, see paragraphs 12, second and fourth, where it misinterprets the rules and correctly defines the starting points and therefore cannot be established by the conclusion of this legal opinion. That is why, as Minister, you have not yet sent a European amendment to the Government's Waste Regulation for notification. Now you're talking cream lobby up and down. You know very well that Europe would react. At home, what you do is say by prolonging the illegal situation, you work for the benefit of the polluters. As the Presidency of the European Union and the President of the Government, we really should not afford greater leverage. Now, here's the thing. Comments: “The provisions of this paragraph do not comply with the provisions of the third paragraph of the Directive of the European Union entitled Cessation of waste status.” Let me quote: "This case of infringement of European legislation is already taking place in Slovenia. On the basis of Arso’s authorized competent authority, the license holder, Termite, “You know what I’m talking about, and don’t pretend to be stupid and stop talking about 1945 and the late Drnovšk, we have a big problem today. Waste produces a construction product which is placed on the market for the solidification of embankments, including fish, humans, children and so on and so forth without the required criteria to regulate the use of this product and also without informing the European Commission, even though this construction material is placed on the market of the European Union as a product and is not treated as a waste to be poured away by an abandoned gliocopier. In short, the pits are filled with dangerous waste today. Today, this moment under Minister Visiak. That is why Minister Vizjak is very dangerous for the environment, which is said to be for the health of the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. As Minister of Environmental Protection, you've gone too far. And those who write you legal opinions for the benefit of future commitments under the proposed provisions and also their representatives in concrete procedures, this is an unprecedented precedent in the National Assembly. And it is clear, whose interest you are protecting, that the public certainly should not, even though it should. I hope that the Members of the New Slovenia and other central parties, who should look into the truth once in the eyes and say yes to the way they manage the country, depending on the values – the children and the families, and the blablabla and not the lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u230	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Dejan Kaloh, get ready for Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u231	Chairman, thank you very much. Now first of all congratulations to Minister André Visiak, he has been here with us for 13 hours, in between, as far as I am in the hall for just a few minutes, he probably makes a biological need, but otherwise he listens to all these nebulosis and even answers them correctly, indeed, Mr. Visjak, really hat down. First of all, these 14-year-old earpieces on which this interpolation is based have, of course, been drawn to everything still alive, much beyond what the interpolation is supposed to aim at; it is the work and responsibility of the Minister for Environment and Space. Indeed, the findings of this interpolation do not have any basis and no real and concrete data. So much for the intro. Of course, as a lawyer, I asked myself, although this was denied by the opposition that it did not matter what country we actually live in, that such illegal hearings were even here, in the National Assembly, the basis for such a debate. Who's filming this? Are these the agents of the parallel mechanism? For what purpose is it recorded? We know exactly that in this case the target was known, and the timing was very well counted, and I am concerned that some LMŠ Members say that they do not care if the hearing is illegal or not illegal. See, this is a crime, unjustifiable wiretap or sound recording is under the 148th Article Penal Code and, on the other hand, as Minister Vizjak himself said, there was no complaint against him in these 14 years when someone was illegally recording him. It's the mafia's job to film someone illegally who's in some private conversation. Robotic talk in private society – let the verbal stone be cast by the one who has never spoken more fluently in the private sphere to say more domestic. It's probably not like that between us and the Minister here to imitate this profanity; look, it's really not serious or fair. I also estimate that this glue is definitely a manipulated case, Minister Vizjak, now it is benign to talk about these judicial eggs. When I first listened to this leprechaun as an ex-journalist, I was really thinking, maybe they're thinking about football, maybe they're talking about a football judge. In fact, man could not get some real sense of what was going on because it was really glued from different environments and, of course, time dimensions. Minister Vizjak is a proactive minister; a minister who is quite on the ground. I believe that this is completely incomprehensible by the opposition in the previous government suit, because, as far as I've been watching, they were more or less in the offices, and of course they're a man of action. That's probably what's bothering some. Minister Vizjak is also temperamental, and I regard this as an added value, because some anaemic ministers, as they came from the left political hemisphere, say when I looked at Mr Pikalo, look, I fell asleep when this man spoke. So now the minister won't apologize for sometimes being more temperamental. If you, dear opposition candidates, have read Annex 3 from the interpolation response, it is said, the achievements of the Ministry of Environment and Space 2020-2021, you could of course see that these achievements are actually impressive as in the final stage of the work of our government. It has also been done enormously in many areas from the environment in which I come. I have to give the minister a very high degree of praise. Just to quickly list: the area of waste water treatment systems in the municipality of Duplek, where we actually had problems with water treatment in the Drava basin, was co-financed by the EU of a million and one hundred and four thousand. Area of investment, accelerated implementation of this mechanism of integrated territorial investment, called CTN-1, five projects: Revitalisation of the Military Market with facilities, restoration of Skate Park, renewal of the Promenade in the City Park, the Love of Lent, regulation of the Drava coast on Lent, total value of projects already partially confirmed by the SVRK, 13 million 837 000 euros. [[Incomprehensible]] As far as housing is concerned, Minister Vizjak was Pod Pekarsko gorco in Maribor, where as many as 400 public rental apartments, of which there will be 60 provided units, and these apartments will be addressed by the most vulnerable groups in our Maribor; from young, young families, disabled people. Of course, it is the Housing Fund's own investments. I accompanied our active minister myself in September 2020 when he arrived in Maribor, in the construction site and in March 2022 this neighbourhood in Maribor will be completed. It is the second largest investment in New Brdo in Ljubljana. So, Minister, thank you for that. As for the areas of hazardous landfills, our pro-active minister was also personally at the already closed landfill of hazardous waste in Metava in July 2020. It's been closed since 2012. I also asked the Minister a question on this subject, saying that his visit and his answer were indeed to say a little poetic, balm for the souls of the inhabitants there, because there is regular monitoring, there is no danger of groundwater. In the future, I believe that this landfill will further regulate in accordance with existing European Union standards. I can't get past that aboriginal reading of buying Petrol's shares. A broader picture – I don't know, because probably what kind of finances the opposition Members read – Slovenians have a record 24 billion euros in their bank deposits, 4 billion more in mutual funds and then 3 billion more in supplementary pension insurance. What you're going to keep that money forever in the windows, like the minister used to give a happy joke. Financial experts even say that Slovenians should finally take part in capital markets, of course with some advice from financial advisors, so that there will be no unnecessary minus to understand each other. Of course, anyone in our country can buy shares, including the minister. With regard to the purchase of Petrol's shares, Minister Vizjak told everyone that both the Anti-Corruption Commission and ATV had taken this purchase into account, everything was fine with that. It was a transparent matter, the minister here said publicly that for about 30 years he had somehow learned about this market of securities. Petrol's shares, logically, are being bought in an organized market, and you could buy them at the end of the day, and whoever sees the abuse of internal information here really has no idea. Petrol is now or right now, the media are reporting that he has already published plans for 2021, so Petrol's income is going to increase, profit is going to increase. The price of the stock is going to go up, too, but no. If you're watching this at least a little bit, global, great investment, and you could buy it. The fact is, the minister said the procedure was transparent. And if, according to the new income law, the minister sells this stock within 15 years, he'll pay the capital gains tax and the state's Erar will get what he's good at. What's the problem, my dears? But the minister can't buy shares? Let me say it out loud as a Member, if anyone else is watching us at this late hour, the taxes must be paid without exception, that is probably what I believe we are all doing, and that is it. Even when you were saying that the thesis from this charlatan is from all the listening ears that paying taxes is stupid. This Minister, I believe you've been on the run for a decade now, but the withdrawal of shares from the dependent companies of Terme Catež, that's the Terme's financial exhaustion. Here, too, I see some criminal and stupid act and here we come to a really de facto point of action, but there is no Minister of Vision, there is Mr. Bojan Petan, now sitting on a sad bench at the District Court in Cyprus, Petan and, of course, the campaign that used these works. And then what happened in those years? The market price of the stock fell from €340 in 2007 to €28 in 2020. So you see what the effects of such work are. The stock went down ten times. It's called bad business. To the conclusion. Applicants, now that you've talked about these economic deadlines, takeovers, corporate governance. One of you was also a philosopher about what the catalysts for raising the stock would be. I estimate that the Minister of Economic Affairs has really trained most of you as students of the first year of economic college. You really are not up to the Minister here, so I hope you have learned at least something from this interpretation; from the fact that 90 percent of the interpolation was, or even more, malicious. So distinguished Minister, I wish you to continue your journey successfully, continue to be such an active, proactive minister. And I'm not gonna support these interpretations because I'm not stupid. Of course I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The word has been given to Franci Kepa, preparing to be prepared by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, Minister, secretary. Colleagues, colleagues! Applicants do not wonder how Mr Petan came to an enormous amount of property by exhausting a well-being firm: by buying up shares for 30 million of his own company. He then gained a higher share of the percentage and put the company on its knees through other companies: Marina Portorož, Portorož Tourist Company and others. He is now the majority owner, he has damaged the country over 100 million euros from us, citizens - and has not paid taxes of at least five million euros. The whole matter is to begin with today's interpretation due to the glued wiretaps of the Visian-Petan conversation 14 years ago obtained in an illegal way. The evidence of the purchase of Petrol shares due to the introduction of regulation of the prices of propellant fuels. In the debate it is said that other countries in Europe do not have these regulations anymore and it has been and Slovenia will be one of the few countries that has had it, if not the only one. The price of Petrol's shares has really jumped, but there have been other shares in the last two years, and in the year half, they've gone up. Here, even the stake of Krka went up even more, over 100 percent, was 60, now 120 euros, as well as other shares. It would probably be even better if I bought shares of the technological mogul Musko, which went up there in three quarters of a year by 700 percent. What a speech that would have been! In the case of water concessions, it is appropriate to create order, and through the Geological Survey it has been established that pumping has been permitted and thereby control of the cubic metres used and payment of the quantities actually consumed, obtained since the examination of the Geological Survey. In the referendum on the amendment of the law, it was not intended to interfere with the purity of water or the privatisation of drinking water, as was the case. One of the main purposes of the law, due to haste, was to manage watercourses and also to prepare money for it. Seizures on the coastal land were indeed written inside for simple objects, this was mainly intended for tourism, simple wooden buildings, for any attachment or for tourist matters in particular. But now it is being built, and now it is being permitted, and it is likely that it bothered someone that it will no longer be; but now it is indeed lawful to build, and it is being built, and it is likely to be, but someone is afraid that it will be done differently. Things revolved around drinking water, before the referendum, and on television — they politicized the matter. [[…]] More about the achievements of the ministry, because there are several of them, indeed; over 107 million will be for water supply projects and waste water removal and treatment projects, for cases less than 2 000 population units, via the Resistance Plan, 400 million euros for water supply systems for guaranteed flood safety. There was a lot of emphasis on built dwellings for young people or for all, but on the market. This is meant to be done by 2026, a total of 5,000 apartments. In addition, there is a scheme for renting apartments, or this has not yet come to life, but this is intended in the future and should also be done through the Ministry. There too will be a very full lease and some who live alone in large houses, three-storey, can broadcast, offer apartments through the ministry or any agency, rent, and there will be more security and more apartments will come to the market, which will be very welcome. In a short time, it will also come to life. I hope that you will receive some recordings from your left-wing colleagues 20 years ago of any wiretaps, if you have waited 14 years for a matter. [[…]] All interpolation is impenetrable and sad that you're producing interpolation without any concrete evidence. It is better for you to find some good solutions, to conclude and for the good of Slovenia, that, for example, it is not to wait for some start of a hydroelectric plant already built there in Mokricah because of some fish and some NGOs have been complaining for several years and can not 28 megawatts, or how much nominal power it is, hydropower to go into power, which is a loss for the country and thus there is no solution to the flood issue to the end. That the construction of the third axis could not begin because of the constant complaining of the New City, because after seven, eight years they want to change the route, which is unacceptable. The route shall be determined at the beginning. This has lost over 40 million European funds. All matters and pressures come from the underworld, which fears for benefits mainly in the garbage collection and through some parties in the National Assembly wants to stop the minister. Everything happens through the media, which is controlled by the same structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija, to prepare Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u235	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. You know, when we talk about taxes on the Minister of Environment and Space, the biggest tax will be paid under the Ministry of Vision in nature, and that is the fact, that we have also experienced with all these laws coming through him or with him and also through the Ministry of the National Assembly, because even when he actually lost the referendum epically and when people have also made it clear to him that he should be the Minister of the Environment and not the Minister against the Environment and that he should protect water and that he should also protect our nature, he has heard this in cold blood. In fact, not long after that, I think that about three months or yes, three months later, he came with the Construction Law to the National Assembly, where he again wanted to frame the quasi-Article 37 of the Waters Act, which was slightly defined, slightly changed, and then incorporated it into the Construction Law under the amendment or amendment to the Construction Law. Even then, if you remember correctly, or those who were on the committee, you know that we were all appalled or also surprised at how someone could dare to come back to this country after such an epicly lost referendum and actually propose a law that really tries the same thing that was challenged at the referendum. What is the second problem with the minister or this government as a whole is that he constantly wants and tries to privatise, I will say, in all areas. And what's the biggest problem for me is this fact, and I don't blame the Ministry here as much as I blame the Minister for taking the job with nature as a job or as a boss, as a domestically speaking, as a company that he can do or dares to do, whatever he wants or imagines. That the fact that I can confirm this or substantiate it with some Yes is, for example, an example of fracking in Petišovci, when in fact he, or very much as I know, lobbyed or insisted that this fracting begins or that it is happening, I will say, starts. [[…]] However, he did not want to listen to the local environment, or people from the local environment who were, but they were still against this cracking in Petišovci, since not only does it have a bad impact on the environment, it also does great harm to the health of the people living there. Because of the fracking itself, which then, if it happens or happens, comes a lot of times because of the mud that forms or other toxic substances that are injected into the earth or into the slate or sandstone, pardon, then the penetration slowly into this groundwater, which is then reflected again in the poor quality of the water. And given that the minister has previously explained so vehemently how he fights for quality drinking water, for clean water, I can actually prove to you that by cracking, he has actually proved that he does not fight for clean or quality drinking water. After what is also in Slovenia, I will say what the trauma has left of the previous Cerara government, this Magna in Hoča, which has really literally damaged this natural environment under Pohorje or under these hills or hills and, above all, again, this Magna Hoče factory has a very big impact on groundwater or on the quality of water in this Drava field pool or in this Drava pool with regard to water capture. I would like the Minister to be here to answer me, given that he has previously praised or discredited Mr Petan, but I do not intend to put myself on any side. But I do wonder if, in fact, it was when this conversation occurred — because it obviously happened because he did not deny it — if he tried to prevent this takeover of Terme Catež by Petan. Obviously, I don't know if he wanted to or didn't want to do it. Whatever. Here I am personally very interested in whether the Minister, given that he knew that this matter was illegal, this takeover of Terme Catež by Mr Petan.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The answer, as far as I know, at least today in the National Assembly at this interpretation of it not only did I not hear, but it kept avoiding not only the answer, but it actually kept asking the other side. This is indeed the modus operandi of this government and also of all ministers who, when they come to the National Assembly, instead of answering, ask questions. And instead of working, they are actually talking about some of the past things that have long been solved or are not now solved. I hope that the Minister will come back to answer this question if he has declared a crime, given that he has been informed that he has spoken to Mr Petan. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I don't know. You're just gonna find him. He's a friend of yours. And I want an answer as to whether he had declared a crime, given that he knew that there had been some illegal activity or that he knew that it was essentially an illegal takeover of these Terme Catež. And I want to find out personally from him whether he's made this crime known to whom he's announced, when he's announced it, and why he's not. Because then he's guilty too. It's just a fact. This delusion that he didn't know something, and that he knew, then maybe he thought he knew, but blablablablah; see, he was then, and also now he is a functionary who must be aware of his duties again. But if he doesn't know them, he should step down right now. And he obviously doesn't know them, and that's why he should step down. The fact is that we really have no luck with this 14th government, where we actually have ministers who are always against it instead of being in favour. So, we have a Minister against the environment, then we have a President of the Government, who is essentially against the state and citizens, then we have a Minister for Culture against Culture again. I mean, very confused and double and Pharisees, whatever you want. And even so, I know that again NSI will be a little disappointed or will try to spin or return the ball to the other side, but as with this government, we do not get clear answers from either side of this coalition. I'm sorry. And when you try to accuse us of this or that, the fact is that you, even the SDS party, have been in previous mandates, and you are still, in fact, the world champions in the announcement or in the referendum questions or in the referendum elections themselves or just these things. I don't know. It's really incomprehensible because not only does it bother me, but I tell you many times, or most of the time, things people write to me, say, complain. Because I also understand my position here in the National Assembly that I am a representative of the people, one of them is said to be. And in fact so bad, and this must be admitted, as bad as this government has done, no one has done in the past 30 years of the history of Slovenia. Deal with it. That's right. And even your voters say that -- and this is another story again -- in fact, I have to put your electorate or even your members at some point or try to get them back in some tracks because they are already desperate for you. Therefore, it is right that this government, not only withdraws immediately, should in fact be long overdue. Same as the minister. That is to say, as soon as possible, the better, because in reality in Slovenia not only do we not deserve such a way of ruling, we have actually worked too long, or even worked hard to get some kind of one together, I will say, a solid democracy that was on the way to sovereign democracy. Not what you do. You actually want to drag us back into the dark middle ages. We want to beat the human rights of what you're doing. And that's a fact. You are trampling human rights in all areas where possible. You write down decrees that are actually unconstitutional. See, the Constitutional Court offers you an answer or mirror every day to these writings, legal or illegal, whatever you want. As it should be said, not only did the minister resign today, but the government should fully step down. What the NSI is doing, because I also know that they can be very toxic in their statements to us; hey, you also need to understand, this is part of the policy that we are talking about, that we can also be argumentatively professional and push in some debates. But in view of this, not only is this quite a few times used, yes, a smoldering phrase – Christian Democrats do so. But basically, man is the first man. So it's a human being. And as a human being, it would be right not only to do good, but, in fact, to do good. And I don't understand, because given that your teachings should still be for intent or even for a degree higher than all the others — given that you're protecting, not only that you believe — I'm terrified of you quite a lot. You know why I'm so disgusted with you. As it should be said, today this matter, this agony ends here in the National Assembly, because it just doesn't make sense, but in fact you are ruining people's lives. Why don't you just let me tell you something? This has nothing to do with your policy, which is what it is, which is an ideology like it, but you've gone across all the lines, you've gone over everything and you'll just have to know whether or not someone will have to stop you because that's not how it works. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Excuse me? Procedural? Here you go. Procedurally, Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. It's a very late hour, Madam President. Today's interpretation takes 14 hours, and I really have a procedural proposal. Perhaps it would be wise to warn all the discussers, some of whom today, as soon as the minister leaves the hall for a moment, are under attack; if he is, where he is, and should return and hope to speak. 14 hours, Your Honor, he's been with us all along. I hope that this National Assembly will have at least a handful of humanity. Previously, the hall was practically empty all the time. It was an empty hall. A couple of MPs were in there, I'm not talking about where they were, what they were doing, everyone can work from their offices and so on. But when we have a minister here, we can still be so human, so respectful that we let him do at least the basic biological needs. Because it's been going a little too far. He leaves the hall in a few minutes and is immediately under attack. I would be really happy to ask in defence of a person, of a person, of a person we talk about, of a person we talk about, to protect a minister in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u238	Thank you very much for the procedural proposal. Several times today I have warned us to be patient, to respect the ethical code, to talk about the content on the agenda, but, unfortunately, this is our relationship and this is the relationship of each individual of us. Even with such acts, we manifest ourselves as we are. Joseph Lenart has the word to prepare Natasha Sukič. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u239	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Long interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrey the Visionary is flowing. Of course, I respect the right of the opposition to interpellation and also its desire to overthrow this government, which is how it is. In the first place, it is clear that he lost a referendum on waters or a referendum on the Water Act, then interfering with the economy, which is somehow from his previous function. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u240	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please, we respect and listen to the interlocutor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Inadequate behaviour and secretly recorded statement from at least, we said, 14 years ago, while, of course, hidden recording is also criminal and for all the other ordinary residents somehow criminalized; of course, the minister should be intertwined with such a matter, read it and take all the cover from the last 50 years, so as to make it somewhat black. Both this damage of nature and so on, I don't know, the nature of the wages, as well as those purchases of his shares that he earned, in fact, for this purchase with his hard work, are somehow more than not attracted to the hair. Among other things, we also have four points: illegal and non-transparent action, direct responsibility of the ministry – I have already said. So, there's a lot about this Waters Act, but if I say we have different opinions, of course we all believe that we have to protect drinking water, but at the expense of the Water Act we do have a different opinion. Some think that nothing about water is to be done without NGOs, protectors at all costs and, of course, regardless of the cost and the flooding and the destruction of people’s homes when the rivers flood and so on. It must not be regulated by a stream of streams, such as the Drava River; it must not endanger the nests of chira and belorep hawks and so on; and Drava should roar when there is a little more rain, destroying our homes so that people actually have to move out of these houses temporarily and so on; farmers are losing crops and money to survive; the road must not be built, such as the Ptuj-Ormoz dam, because of three fish, a hundred frogs and I do not know how many turtles and a few birds. These are just things that I'm going to say that I really respect nature, but somehow during this protection of nature and during the development it is necessary to find some balance, some middle, some co-existence, and I believe that Minister Vizjak knows this and has some sort of realistic views and is also moderate in his work, not extreme. [[…]] That's how I believe you won't convince him in the extreme. But it is true that this is the Minister of the Environment and not the NGO, he is not a birder, but he respects nature. Since I've known Minister Visiak, I have to say that I've been following his expertise all along, I've come to know him more when he was listening here in the National Assembly, and I think most of those board members, if I say so, have been satisfied with his expertise. I also believe that he can listen to people's problems and we recognize them not only in the coalition but also in recognition of the mayors who are other political options because he has come to many congregations to visit and approach problems. So I remember how he was able to listen to Ptuj when he came to visit our mayor, and in fact from his previous mayoral experience he also advised how to proceed. On the basis of these certain documents, which he then launched, some investments took place on Ptuj as well, some infrastructure constructions that were permanently suspended due to some paper barriers. Then I remembered these meetings, and somehow I actually noticed that, as a former mayor, the minister has some kind of breadth, sightseeing, I'm going to say, broad knowledge. Everybody doesn't have that width. This is something that needs to be respected. Thus, in fact, on some of the recommendations made by both mayors, Members, the wider local community, we have also touched on these pressing problems. And then it happened that more was meant to ensure flood safety. I will mention, for example, the area of Ptujska Drava or the area of Ptuj–Drava and then we also have Dravinja with Poland, according to that part of Drava. After that, more than 50 investment projects for water supply were launched during this minister’s term of office — worth 400 million and more. Then investing in sewer water, primary water, security, I already said, flood safety. Here, at the speed of supply of drinking water in the Drava basin, the closet area, then separating, cleaning Drava – Municipality of Ptuj, all these things that actually ran very well. Water resources have increased, and even if the Water Act had succeeded, water resources would have increased further, more would have been devoted, and more would have protected people's assets at watercourses. So I'm going to say, in fact, in the opposition, there's also a little bit of pollen under his feet, and there's something you've been doing to help yourself with your non-governments. And, of course, there is no minister on his side of the media – no mercy, let alone support. So we congratulate him on his work. There are a lot of investments in progress, and there are also many things that are related to the protection against reptiles and so on. This is how fast apartments are built in Slovenia, and they will be built in the coming years. In some ways, rules were also laid down for non-profit rents by law. If I touch those other Petrol shares. I can't really understand what's happening to him. Misuse of information. I don't know. Anyone could have bought those shares if they had saved something. And if someone has a good – what already – nose for investment; that if someone does not actually hope to take the risk, it is also clear, but it does not have to be furrier and envy if someone creates something with their hard work. I really think that we have a minister like him, more open-minded, and, of course, that's why sometimes he cuts off, in his own words, he just says, "No hair on his tongue." Of course, I wish him well and much success. Perhaps it would also be good if some of us here were a little less bitter, but all of a sudden also sometimes offensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Get Bojan Podkoršek ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u243	Oh, now I have that word as a Member or what? [[Laugh]] Because I'm a little bit prepared for [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. Well, whatever. Look, we heard a lot today. Let's talk a little bit about standards in politics and ethical criteria about the lost compass in this policy. In view of what we are witnessing, this is the perversion of this; that the coalition today hangs itself on that the hearings were illegal. But you are not interested in the content of these hearings, respected and respected. This, if they have been illegal, is a matter of the Court of the Republic of Slovenia, not of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but of the content, but it is a matter of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to understand each other, and therefore today we have an interpretation. But this interpolation is really getting grotesque today, literally. Indeed, it seems as if we are actually interpolating Mr Petan, and even the National Assembly, which adopts harmful laws, which are of course signed and produced by the Minister and produced by his ministry. That's one aspect of this story. The second aspect, the distinguished minister, is 680,000 people who are stupid enough for you to vote against your marriage, but this law, this referendum is a breaking point. You're incompetent if you haven't managed to convince people that this marriage is okay; so would you, too, because of that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u244	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u245	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Colleagues and colleagues, a little attention. One of us was most of the day in this room, and if you want two minutes, then I guess you're the minister, and the proponents are the end of it. But if we talk through each other, then it's hard to go on. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we have started this interpretation on Friday, and we are finishing it on Saturday. I might have started there when, in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I concluded that the Minister has working hands, that he has knowledge, that he has experience and, above all, that he is an expert in the field for which he works, that is, the Ministry of Environment and Space. Minister, given that you are coming from our party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, I must conclude that we are proud of you. Throughout the day, you have presented your professional work to all Members and Members of Parliament, especially those who have been accompanying this meeting throughout the day. When we started this interview on Friday morning at 10:00, I know that he was the chief proponent, this is our fellow Member, Rudy Medved, former Prime Minister of the former government, a little embarrassing. In particular, it felt in his presentation, because he was a minister, he was also a person who had already been able to do something in his life; on the other hand, he had a minister who works professionally and in particular wants to change things for the better, especially in the field of the environment in the Republic of Slovenia. In short, I would like to thank everyone, including those who may have come to your discussions, for perhaps telling the minister something that he has not done. And above all, I'm glad when we met in the hallway today, no one had anything to say through the minister, mag. Andrej Visiak, Minister of Environment and Space. In short, Minister, I wish you, on behalf of our parliamentary group, to continue this work professionally, and especially to do it with your fellow workers for the good of Slovenia for the benefit of those who live in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister and representatives of the motioner of interpretation are given the floor. The Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space has the floor. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u247	Dear Members and Members! I've been professional in politics since 2000. I was a secretary of state, three times a minister, four times a MP, including the mayor, the mayor, the municipal councillor. I've actually been through a lot, but I've never been involved in politics for money or for personal gain. I went into politics because it's a matter for me because I wanted to work for joint projects, first in the local environment, then wider. Also in March 2020, I accepted the invitation of the President of the Government to go to the government, not because I am going to a position where I will make any financial use of myself, but because I wanted to do something about the environment and the place where there is much to do. Personally, I'm offended by the obvious that this is about money, about capital, and I don't know what else. In my previous job, which I left and went to Parliament by the way, I also resigned from many other functions, supervisors and the like at least half the personal benefits I had before. I'm not in charge of money for my work; I'm being guided by a targeted attitude, a project-oriented attitude, I want to sort things out. Even then, in 2007, when there were disputed hearings, and later editings and hearings, I wanted to do something useful for the Brežica Congregation, where Terme Catež is a country, that we have another company that prospers, and wanted to prevent its relatively well-known neighbor, who is known to all Brezians by his works; in fact, I don't know if he has any friends anywhere, I don't know if he has anyone, or if he let anyone go, that he didn't cheat him in his life. So I wanted to prevent one harmful takeover, damage to taxpayers - I failed. I had already made this clear as a criminal and unacceptable act, which today proved to have cost taxpayers substantially more than 100 million euros. I get words, he doesn't get actions. I would like to open another subject - what does it mean: actions or words? What has greater weight, or some of the most popular politicians in this country or actions to the benefit of this country? People's hard work, sincere desire, I believe he's running most of you. Both in the opposition and in the coalition, you are led by a sincere effort to benefit this country. Unfortunately, the level of perception, the level of debate and the depth of pain that some of us experience in these obviouss is significantly different from 20 years ago when I went into politics. I think that this is bad for the future of the National Assembly and for the decisions of our citizens who are competent, honest, hardworking to decide whether to go to the candidate list. In fact, so much manure, so much truely incorrect accusations that I have made in these last three months since the famous October 18th, when this 14-year-old vulture, as Ambassador Polnar well described, appears, would not allow anyone. I believe that there is only one other person who has experienced this in his life, and this is my Prime Minister, Janez Janša, who has lived ten times as many, I would say, instigations and maggots in his life. But he insists. Of course, I also thought at first of all what I needed to do. Why? On October 19th, the day after this disclosure, you could simply, like your fellow Member, Marjan Šarec, throw a rifle into the corn, say goodbye to the function and go back to work in a comfortable place. No! No! I insist, because I want to finish some projects, some of them with your help. This is both the Construction Law and the Law on the Regulation of Space, which you, by the way, confirmed last week in this National Assembly. There is yet another very important project waiting for us, and here I hope, Members, for your full assistance and support in this, this is the Environmental Protection Act, which will regulate some of the unregulated things in this country, particularly in the field of waste. So, whatever you're going to decide about this, believe me, one thing is that I've never been led by personal interests in my life when I was working in politics, but by the well-being of this country or the local community in which I was working. Even then, in these hearings, even today and always. Especially in the Water Act, which I sincerely believed was good and useful, and I believe today because it was misused for other purposes, and whoever analyzes it today sees that there is nothing wrong with this law and in fact healthy drinking water is provided to people in other ways. Mr Horvat also said well in what way – by building water systems everywhere in Slovenia where they do not have them. In this way, respected, the quality of life in our country is enhanced. With investments and not empty words or blanks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Janja Slug has the floor. No, no, no. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Minister Vizjak today defends that he is the victim of an espionage conspiracy. He was probably also the victim of the conspiracy in the purchase of Petrol's shares just before the government deregulated the price for a litre of petrol: 144% net profit growth for Petrol in the first half of the year and plus 60 000 euros for Andrej Visiak. Meanwhile, people shut down radiators and furnaces in the middle of winter because of rising energy, electricity and heating prices. The Minister defends that in the case of Petan he defended the public interest. How? He was part of the government of Janez Janša, who created the tycoon with a change of law at the time. Now that the tacunaisation of public enterprises is almost over, the Minister of the Environment behaves in the same way as he once did in public enterprises. A buyer with public goods, with our common property, like and like they used to be with public companies. The Water Act is a typical example. The minister says it works according to the standards of this government. We have no doubt about that. The undermining of environmental standards, partisan, corrupt, harmful, untransparent and even illegal behaviour, all of which is a typical modus operandi of this government, perfectly framed by Minister Viszak's statement to the judge “will already crush the eggs” from the “stupid taxes” affair. The Minister and his SDS have been convincing us all day that these are images of an informal nature and a stickler. Well, Economy Minister Andrej Vizjak and Tycoon Bojan Petan and not Neighbor Andrej and Neighbor Bojan discussed in an hour how to take over a state company, how to avoid paying stupid taxes and how to shoot judges' balls. But in the case of the "stupid tax" affair, the coalition seems more problematic than the minister's corrupt and illegal conduct. If Nova Slovenija thinks to abstain at interpretation, this is exactly the same as if the Minister of Vision were supported. But NSI plays a double game; on the one hand, they are absolutely responsible for private shopping with publicly owned companies, inciting tax evasion and for hatching eggs to judges. When it comes to appetites after the privatisation of health or militarisation of Slovenian society, they are even worse than SDS. On the other hand, they are trying to sell for some kind of civilised, central alternative to Janez Janša. That doesn't convince anyone. Matthew Tonin obviously thinks that for NSIs to become middle, or digital, or green, it's enough to casually suggest a pair of tweets and a few small pyars. In short, we will, of course, strongly vote in favour of Minister Visiak's interpretation in Levica. Or – midpoint – the NSI will show the middle again to citizens and citizens, and we will see soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer, Rudy Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u251	Thank you for your word, President. No, I wasn't embarrassed to present the contents of this interpretation, not at all. However, Minister Andrej Vizjak should be embarrassed just before the vote. Why? He did not answer or reject any of this interpretation throughout the day. But nothing at all. You've informed us that events from 14, 15 years ago are the trigger to this interpolation. Of course that's not true. That's not true. But if you listened to Minister Visiak in the defense, he did make a real glue of five or six exactly the same defenses, and the vast majority in these glues were dedicated to these events 15 years ago. So Minister Vizjak himself wanted to hold a debate in an area where he is obviously more at home than in the field of the Ministry of Environment, in the field of the economy. He became entangled again after it had long been cleared of what was wrong with that famous video, and today he reiterated that he did not speak at all about paying taxes on those recordings. That he never talked about it. It's just that from a number of conversations recorded, someone glued and put the stupid taxes in his mouth. Look! Just the one, but everything else is authentic. Everything else is authentic. And then some tonic technique finds that it's a glue, because it's heard in the background of bird singing, instead of chewing glasses, even though the media who published these videos also put them in a forensic investigation and also made it public that they were authentic videos. But of course, it was done by a man who was legally authorized to do these things. So, this distortion now sometimes, where, how, if it were really like the real minister, I guess the President of the Government wouldn't be doing research on how to pay taxes because he was worried, and he realized that paying taxes was okay. What the minister turned around today is, of course, the very way he acted at the time of the tycoonization, during the Taiwanese war, with the tycoons created by the then government, and they grew. And, of course, they also grew up to be Minister Vissiak, who meddled in the Terme Catež case, and probably in some other place, but this one was publicly revealed, meddling for so long that tycoon Petan brought him around. And then there was: take the thief. Before that, they had a pretty good deal of influence in the Termes of Catež. And the minister doesn't tell us what the result was except that he failed. The result was, of course, that the country had acquired ownership in Terme Catež and today this ownership is worthless. By interpellation, the proponents, we wanted to show in the way the then government operates, which is transferred to the way that every government, led by Janez Janša, is operated and in which Minister Vizjak is every time. That was the purpose of the interpolation. But the point was somewhere else, but of course, the minister was always very skilfully avoiding it, so as not to put the word on it. For example, in relation to NGOs. He was quiet there. The first anti-Korona package, which is supposed to be a package to combat the epidemic, has expelled environmental NGOs from all processes. And it was an epidemic package. And so, of course, this expulsion of NGOs is constantly repeating, repeating, prolonging. Now this anti-korona package will extend ten percent by another six months. This is the minister's attitude towards NGOs. As for the referendum on the Water Act, it touched him only so much that he again accused all those who voted against the law, nearly 700,000 people voted against the law that they did not know what they were voting on. That they were misled, manipulated, that the law was basically extremely well-intentioned and that people did not understand. Who can manipulate and seduce 700,000 people, I ask. Who? Who? And he didn't even have support practically in his own party when this referendum campaign was under way. People have made it clear that they will not allow the construction of water protection areas and coasts. They made it clear. In LMŠ, we say the same thing, that we will not allow the building. And today, of course, the minister didn't know, or he didn't want to say the exact meaning of his marriage novel. He didn't want to. And why did people vote against this law? Because of politics. Due to the politicisation exercised by this authority in all areas that are subject to all systems and, of course, who would believe that, at the end of the day, those guardians who have been incorporated into this law will actually work, because they would in any case give in to the ruling policy. That's what people knew. That's why they voted against it. But, of course, these things were not something the minister was willing to talk about today. He just kept repeating this epic heroic fight against the tycoons, the struggle to preserve the state's interest in the time when the tycoon wars raged. In fact, he merely showed how he acted at the time, how he was working today. Because the sample was well tolerated. This affair, this visionary affair, that I don't call it stupid taxes again, has shown us all how the first of your government's actors, or under the cover of the fight against the tycoons, have taken very well into account the tycoon's methods of action and rule. Today, of course, we are witnessing to the tycunization of power. If, then or even today, economic tycoons are draining businesses, then political tycoons are draining the country. The Minister did not recognize the importance of public interest today either. Private and public interest interferes all the time. Finally, the misuse of internal information in purchasing state-owned shares does not cause him any serious problems. It is therefore right that, of course, we today vote against the Minister without confidence. If we were to judge after the debate throughout the day, this mistrust would be on the palm of our hand, but of course the vote might prove otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u252	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, express its non-trust to the Minister for the Environment and the Magi area. Andre Vissiak and clear him of his functions. His office as Minister is hereby terminated. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 29. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that the Minister for Environment and Space has not been voted on. [[Applause]] . I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 28th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 20th. 12 o'clock. (The sitting was suspended 18.) DECEMBER 2021 AT 00.27.)
