ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 85th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Ferenc Horváth, Gregor Židan, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Bojana Muršič, Maša Kociper, Franc Jurša and Felice Žiža. I welcome all those present once again! We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a recommendation on the worrying situation in the country and the urgency of early elections. First of all, I explain that this point and the meeting were suspended on 26 October due to the indiscretion of the National Assembly at the third vote on the Member's objection to the withdrawal of the word, and therefore we are moving on to a decision on the opposition of the MEP. Mark Koprivac against the decision of the then Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Jožet Tank, to take his word. I also explain that if the objection is accepted, the Member will not be deprived of the word and will be able to proceed with the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 78 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on opposition by the Member of the Parliament, the Assembly shall decide without discussion and without explanation of vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that Mr. Ambassador Mag's contract. The nettle is not accepted. Before we proceed, Mr Han has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I see that some people here don't even listen, they don't know what they're voting on. We voted on this. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Wait a minute! We voted that we will start taking the floor in the State Assembly by voting to Members or Members. In this case, we have taken the word away from Mr Magi. Mark Koprivec and Marko Koprivc will no longer be able to speak. He was one of the proponents. If you are, ladies and gentlemen, most of you imagine democracy so that we cannot and cannot speak in the National Assembly, then we are on a very bad path, and, ladies and gentlemen, dear coalition and their supporters, the Social Democrats, also because of the colleague you have taken away from him, we will no longer participate in this meeting and leave the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u3	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Before we proceed, just in an explanation, as currently President, I do not have any authority or leverage in the Rules of Procedure to act in any other way and I cannot change the decisions that the Presidents have taken before me, even though I may not agree with them or that they have not been properly implemented even after the procedure. But most of them decided to be mags. He no longer gives the hive a word in the course of the debate. May I have your attention, please? Thank you. We will continue the debate. Ms Natasa Sukič is next in line with the statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Returning to the debate that took place before the time is a little ungrateful just without a specific introduction, because things were getting a little tricky in the meantime. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is the fact that it is planned to create an extraordinary situation and at the top of everything next to Prime Minister Janša stands Interior Minister Aleš Hojs. He is the one under whose authority the government, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, activated police powers to prohibit movement in public places and shocked the people, the people of Ljubljana, on 5. 10th, when we were expecting a barricaded city center. At least a thousand special forces, police officers in special equipment, cavalry, police dogs, water cannons, and it's reported that the police have just reported 400 gas shots. So we were faced with a brutal force that was reckoning with its own people. And this is just a synonym for the fact that the state currently has an emergency situation. However, these extraordinary situations are not from a few months ago or from now, but this creation of extraordinary conditions has actually been going on since the first day of the reintroduction of power by John Janša. I'm afraid so. On behalf of the fight against covid epidemics, which has greatly affected everyone, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mainly rules with decrees. Ministers adopt these decrees in writing sessions, as finally said by the retired Minister of Justice, as it takes place at some night meetings. If the Minister does not respond, he shall be deemed to agree. That's how it goes from here to tomorrow, which creates problems. There are at least two problems. The first is a marked non-democracy, since the executive branch is in fact taking over the tasks of the legislative branch of power. These things are going through Parliament, and laws are being passed here. Decisions aren't made here. When the government no longer has legitimacy, when it no longer has a clear majority in the National Assembly, when this majority is no longer in the larger Parliament, when the support of the public falls from month to month and swings over 20 per cent or between 20 per cent and 30 per cent, it therefore resorts to increasingly authoritarian solutions and the government forces and the government with force. And that's what we all feel. That's what we can worry about, and that's what's really shouting that we're in a state of emergency. The additional problem with such rulings is also the chaos created by the government by this continuous decision-making, and people are no longer aware of what is happening, what is not, and so on. In short, this is actually the best way in society to create, through legal instruments, situations that are, for example, completely contrary to the basic principles and guidelines of the legal system, contrary to the provision of some predictable and as lasting rules governing certain social relations. Of course, this chaos is no accident. In fact, the side effect of inability to rule is, for the first time, with minority support in the National Assembly, secondly, the inability to control the epidemic, which unfortunately all of us have been facing together for a good year and a half. In fact, how such chaos is at the same time the objective of the government's rule proves the daily communication of visible chief government representatives, from the Prime Minister to ministers as well as state secretaries. Unfortunately, we read a lot of this on Twitter, and all of this shows that the government of Janez Janša on the one hand is not up to the proper management of the country in these difficult times of the epidemic, and on the other hand it is driven by the desire to change social order and by some subordination of everything that can be subordinated. We're just about to say we're subjugating Energy. We've been reading this for the last few days. Such a government is the one that is primarily a threat to democracy and to the rule of law. It's a government that doesn't respect laws that don't even respect their own laws. We know the joke was with the U.S.A. Now you've finally signed the contract. What exhaustion it was, what a violation of the law. We know what is going on with European Delegated Prosecutors and so on. With all this confusion, chaos and immeasurable arrogance and arrogance, the people's response to anger is expected. It is no wonder that people are angry because together we need a power that enjoys respect, that enjoys trust, but unfortunately we have a power that separates us from each other, that attacks the judiciary, the media, non-governmental organizations that beats their people, that gives tax breaks to the richest, which places a hole in the state budget of €800 million per year - and then we will wonder why public health, public health, public education and so on - giving priority to the 100 million-million-dollar purchases of needless weapons that will be used on NATO missions abroad and do not need to defend the country that imposes non-consistent measures and, most often, the government with decisions and the rate of repression from day to day. We are also faced with all the worse politicisation and militarisation of the police, as shown by the increased powers of the police, through legislative amendments, staff exchanges in leadership positions in the police with listening personnel, visits by SDS officials at police stations and so on. All of this and all of this could be said, and the time is upon me, there are clear indications that we are in emergency situations and that we need elections as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik wanted the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. We don't have much time anymore, so in view of the conclusion of this meeting as a candidate, I would like to stress once again what we have been saying for quite some time now that we have also had this meeting late in the night. What is this government doing? This government is taking people's freedom right now. This government is using repression. I don't need to repeat that we're watering people with tear gas, if you remember. This government does not respect judicial decisions or laws. In the meantime, she has fixed one great shame with the STA, but this does not save those, in the notes, from God’s punishment when they have to file accounts. This government is about human brutalism. Over a thousand 300 people were changing, and now it's on the Energy agenda. That's what you do. The main criteria are not competences, knowledge or the like, the main criterion is only one, the main one, that it is ours and that it is obedient. It's human brutalism. That government communicates unrestrainedly. Despising, underestimating, mocking, pitiful, shamefully communicating. I've said many times that I don't want to repeat these chives and everything that can be written every day by Minister Hoys, because I'd be too ashamed. Do you know what that means? That this government is ruled by decrees and that ministers of this government, including the Prime Minister, are terrorising their citizens. They terrorize their citizens. We know how to rule this government in history under the name of dictatorship. In view of who our Prime Minister likes to hang out with, we can only see where this government is taking Slovenia. Today — as it is called — the garlic on the cake took place at this meeting when the coalition partners simply decided to take the floor to a member of the National Assembly. This coalition has taken the floor to a member of the National Assembly. So where did we fall? [[There's a riot in the hall.]] It's unacceptable for LMSH. And it is unacceptable that someone in this temple of democracy imagines that he can take the word of an MP. Therefore, Your Honor, we will no longer participate in this session at the LMŠ. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I would ask my fellow Members from the SDS if you could be so respectful that you do not comment in the middle of the debate, because this sounds like the debate room and the discussion room. And it's not right. Please, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, what do you have? Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u8	Your Honor, you seem to be disturbed when I raise my hand. Look, yeah, I have a replica, and I think it's important to make this thing clear how and what it is. This is the second time we have heard that we Members have taken away someone's word. Let us, however, be right to each other. There was a procedure in this National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, where, for the words spoken, we also believe that even in this temple of democracy, it is not possible to say anything at all, to insult and so on, was Mag. Koprivc was warned for the first time. As he continued, he was warned the second time, and then he was given a saying that would take away the word. This is strictly by the rules of procedure and is in order to avoid such matters and excesses. Given that Mr Koprivc has requested a vote on this withdrawal, we have done so today. We did not confirm that the word had been taken from him, but that the proper conduct of the then President-in-Office of the National Assembly, who had given this measure, was. Thus, we today have supported the correctness of the saying of measures. Let's stop taking someone's word and take the opportunity to discuss it. That's one thing. And as a second word. I really have a lot of patience, and I hear a lot of things, but when it's too much, it's too much. Fellow Member, I think that the last one is in line, I am talking about Mirnik Divac, who can talk about some level of communication and tweeting and some type of online writing. In her account or because of her publications, a number of additional lunatics are made out of MEPs. But as a woman, I am ashamed to talk about this publication today, so I will be quiet, but it seems to me that sometimes we go too far in the sense that we are looking for mistakes in others, but we ourselves do not know how to undo them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u9	Dear Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, first of all for an explanation. I have no problem if you raise your hand and demand a word. But it's true that we all have masks and I didn't exactly understand what you wanted. Even after your implementation, I don't quite understand what you were discussing because it wasn't a replica. You were the first to discuss it in the previous session. The event that you have just discussed in the context of the replica could not be covered in your initial debate. Let me explain to you what the replica is, in fact, in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure. He said: “Every debater has the right to reply to another debate, as far as this debate relates to his debate, if he considers that his debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted.” So you abused the replica institute in your implementation, because in your debate you did not speak and you could not speak physically about any withdrawal of the word because it had not yet happened. I have let you use your five minutes, as it is called, but in the future I will interrupt you and any other person who will not replicate in the manner required by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And here's what we're going to explain. From the presidency, it's my duty. As regards the withdrawal of the word and the procedure carried out at the previous meeting, let me just explain, this can be any look at a tapegram which is publicly available, fellow Vice-President Tanko has taken the word a little too quickly, since he took it at the time of the second warning and the Rules of Procedure clearly stipulate that the first warning is given to the Member, then a second warning is given, and if the Member, after the second warning given, is still in any way disrupting the proceedings, the word is taken away from him. So much so that we know what we're talking about. However, the procedures were not properly carried out. But as I said from the beginning, I have no authority and authority to do anything other than vote what you voted on. colleague Anja Bah Žibert, you have a procedural proposal, but let me warn you in advance that if there is no procedural proposal, I will interrupt you and take away your word and give you a warning at the same time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Thank you for telling me in advance what you're about to say. I don't have any problems. My procedural proposal is, according to yours, in relation to my replica. First, the replica lasts three minutes, not five minutes, just like you said. I believe there's been a lapsus and you know the rules of procedure. Secondly, the fact is that the Member who spoke clearly did not understand our implementation. I mean, performance can be a mime. It can be words. The fact is, the MP didn't understand ours. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u11	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u12	Please let me finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u13	There is no procedural proposal, and I warned you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u14	Please, look, you've already had to make a written apology for your statements to me personally. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u15	Member of the Commission [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u16	When the lawyer's office talked you into this. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u17	Member of the Commission, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u18	Now I'm asking you not to continue this work.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u19	I give you a warning, a first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u20	In short, the fact is that the Member State misunderstood our actions and decisions. And it's a good thing that I replicated it in this part. As in the second. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u21	This is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u22	Second of all, she talked about it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u23	I'm giving you a second warning. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u24	She talked about it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u25	Form a procedural proposal concerning the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u26	That's right, I'm just telling you where you're breaking it, but don't let me finish. Second of all, why my replica was justified is that it was talking about inappropriate communication on our part. I was here when I heard it was a problem with our communication. I answered that. And that's a replica. She really didn't get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u27	What is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u28	My procedural proposal is, however, for you to come to the attention of the President when there is indeed a violation. I did not violate the replica because I responded to what my colleague obviously did not understand me or the actions of our parliamentary group, which I am part of, did not understand. That's it. I think it was unfair of you to say that I abused the replica. And I think you've done the right thing, and I'm asking you to let us replicate in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u29	This is also not a procedural proposal, if we are very precise. Please refer to Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure which discusses the procedural proposal concerning the use of the Rules of Procedure. If your interpretation of your performance is different from mine, it's your legitimate right. But when I run the session, I explain and use the Rules of Procedure myself. I thought your replica wasn't a replica. I would like to reiterate that your procedural proposal was not a procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and therefore I would also like to give you a second reminder if you have not heard it in your vehement performance. So you have another reminder. And the next time you violate the Rules of Procedure at this meeting, I will withdraw your word in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Simple as that. Another explanation for those five minutes of fame. I hope you know the phrases in the Slovenian language. This is just a phrase used, but of course I know that the replica lasts three minutes, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. You don't have to worry about that. If you allow us to continue the meeting in a slightly more cultural and business-like manner. I will read all the further debates, because there are very few, depending on the list. The next is Mrs Violeta Tomić, followed by Mr Bojan Podkoršek, followed by Mr Željko Cigler, then Mr Robert Polnar, Mr Tašner Vatovec and as the last. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All that we are looking at in this session is a sign that this government must leave as soon as possible. So much arrogance, so much self-interest, the will we are experiencing now, I do not remember in the 30-year history of Slovenia. And that's all a farce. It really is a farce of democracy that is not. That is why I am also looking and pointing to the non-existent Members of Parliament at the moment, who support this farce and this disgrace with some excuse to vote on their conscience. Respected and respected! The news must first have and not be sold for one to two wages. It is a shame how much cowardice, how much arrogance, how much authoritarianism we receive from the rulings and Members. Then, when people who are completely freaked out by decrees come to peaceful protests and read the constitution, they are carried away by robotics. And because this is not enough reason to beat them up and punish them even more, they are subjected to pearls, neo-Nazis, valued in this government so that they can be provokers on the road. Then, when the police call the peace-loving protestors to remove such provocations, these officers are then processed. And when we move on, protestors once again demand a little more democracy, it happens — what? They're incinerated. Of course, then invent some kind of leaders who talk about patriotism along with Ambassador Grims and Shisak. All of this is called by you, Your Honor, a flutter. In the last session, we heard he was shivering in the streets. You know, they're citizens and citizens, they're your taxpayers. They didn't shudder if they disagreed with the authoritarian way of ruling. I told you once that it reminds me of Ceausescu what's going on here. And I have the right to speak, because we are in Parliament and we have the right to fight maybe sometimes a little sharper opinions. Taking away a Member's word is unacceptable. Here's our job. Parliament – Parliament, Parliament – speak. If we don't talk, violence happens. And, of course, violence is near you. Yes, the Member was taken away from the word at the previous meeting. But your Vice-President, Jože Tanko, is as subtle as some Members on this side when we are critical of the SDS party and especially of its President, whom you consider to be a deity, which is really unacceptable. Then we experience predictions in advance, just like Baba Wang. The president himself says that infections and infections are about to grow. Or say anything that somehow diverts our attention from the horrendous and catastrophic personnel tsunamis, the disastrous and inadmissible behaviour of these ministers, from corruption affairs, by calling for tax evasion, by directing some friends or by contrived the Prime Minister himself to some tax havens of money that should remain here for citizens and citizens. And then our ills behind the co-pilot drive abroad because we don't have a health system that could treat our people. Then you go to the border and you see Lithuanian, Czech, Polish police officers because we obviously have no ability to run our country on our own. I'm sorry, I'm running out of minutes and seconds to list everything that this government needs to do as soon as possible. Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Yeah, it slipped a couple of raised hands. First of all, I apologize to Secretary Kangler for missing you. You will receive the word immediately after the motion and after the replica. First of all, a procedural proposal, Mr Ferrjan, if I have seen correctly. No, Mrs. Shriner has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u32	Thank you very much. President, I propose a procedural proposal to harmonise the functioning of the Presidents in this process, at this meeting as well as at all meetings of the National Assembly and the Committees of the National Assembly. Mrs Violeta Tomić has already taken my word from me, but she has given me as many reminders as I have not given them as principal in fourteen years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I will take this as a well-intentioned proposal, although I suggest that I return the ball to you first to contact your Vice-President from your Group of Members. And an explanation. If you're saying you've got no idea how many reminders, that's fine, because without any reminders, your colleague Tomić probably shouldn't have taken the floor. But I don't know what situation you're talking about, so I can't comment on it. I believe the President of the National Assembly has also heard your proposal and may react. Reploco wanted Mr. Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for the floor. Let me say in the replica that it will not remain in the air or that it will not be misunderstood. A colleague from the Left of Violeta Tomić apparently did not understand, because for the Slovenian Democratic Party, for this government coalition peaceful protests are not protests that throw granite cubes at police. There are no peace-loving protests against which firecrackers are thrown under horses, on which are cops who are spitting, threatened with death. This for the Slovenian Democratic Party, these are not peace-loving protests for the government coalition, which are obviously for the Left. It's sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Kangler, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I regret that half of the hall is empty to answer to those who have left the hall and have also been the proponents of this extraordinary meeting. Apparently, the coalition is in the majority part of this Chamber and has a relation to the debate, and in particular the attitude towards the institutions of the National Assembly and the Government. I would like to answer Mrs Tomić, because it is unacceptable, although it is your responsibility and your attitude to the other Members, and you are looking at Mr Desus, you say with your finger that you have sold yourself for two wages. However, if I am not mistaken, you are the Member before you took up the mandate of the National Assembly, that you spoke out loud in public about how much you would reduce your salary, but until now you have not kept your word to your electorate and to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. No one in the police beat the peace-loving citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Last time I told you, the hooligans, the hooligans attacked cops in Ljubljana. At the moment when the police ordered the meeting to be dissolved, the hooligans performed. And if these are peaceable citizens for you?Oh, my God! Peace-loving citizens respect the rules, as opposed to hooligans. 40 police officers were injured in all these protests, but only two protestors. Did the police deliberately fall or were the hooligans hurt? Isn't that what you're worried about? You're attacking police officers who defend the Constitution, public order and peace. I'd be ashamed if the cops were the ones who beat the Slovenians. That's not true! Cops are just people doing their job. But he knows who doesn't follow the rules. No one poisoned the Ljubljanas. When you talk to foreign cops. Obviously, you do not accept the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and all the international acts adopted by Slovenia, that we are members of the European Union and that Slovenia, along with others, cares about the Schengen border. Foreign police officers are on the Schengen border because you were the Member of Parliament who were explicitly opposed to the Slovenian Army being on the border. And these officers are helping the Slovenian police in the interest of Europe. And you don't understand that. We're just in the European Union, I'm sorry. Lydia Divac Mirnik, I don't know what to say in this place on behalf of the government, because I can hardly understand it on behalf of the government. I may personally understand her. Nobody watered people with water and tear gas. She mentioned human brutalism. What is human brutalism? I'm not a member of any party in the coalition, and I've been given an opportunity in this coalition. I'm the president of the New People's Party. Is that human brutalism? We have an active member of the SD in our office. Is that human brutalism? You're talking about the tsunami when the director of the Ljubljana Police Administration went to be the deputy director-general of the Police. After 20 years, when he was CEO. The director of the Kranj Police Administration, who came to the Ljubljana Police Administration, took his place. What kind of politics? It's a stretch. But since you're not good enough, you're here in the National Assembly. Ms Lidija Dijak Mirnik asked who Janez Janša could associate with. He is the President and is chairing the European Union at this time. This pains you, and it will always hurt you that more than 40 representatives of foreign countries, Member States of the European Union and some other countries have visited Slovenia in this mandate, and thus also Prime Minister Janez Janša. They responded to the invitation of Prime Minister Janez Janša. You had your chance. No one came to see Mr. Marjane Sharpe. This is his problem if he was unable to invite someone or if others did not respond to his invitation. But you also abuse this because you want to tarnish Slovenia in front of the entire European Union. Therefore, Wednesday's protests were postponed to Tuesday to prevent a major event on the Hill. But you didn't make it. You are filing a request in the National Assembly to convene this extraordinary meeting, and you are nowhere. At the same time, you are filing a request for the interpretation of Minister Aleš Hojs. When you put these two documents in your hand, they're both identical, to words and to commas. But it's the work of the opposition. Consider it your own. The same. Here you're reading and asking the government to resign, to replace the director, Hojs, and I don't know who else, but here you're just asking for the replacement of Minister Aleš Hojs. The fact that you, as a politician, demand the replacement of a police director is seriously wrong. You're putting pressure on the leadership of the Slovenian police. With such references to an emergency session, you exert pressure on police officers. And don't refer to the union. It would be wiser for the union to deal with those police officers who need legal assistance than to deal with it because one of the heads of the police department received a warning before being expelled. That's the problem. When, though, did they withdraw to serve the Slovenian people on the street for 24 hours at the border so that we could sleep peacefully? Doesn't that hurt? Of course not, because you cause and want chaos. When I speak here today in the Chamber, it is not interesting that you have carried out and are still exerting pressure on Members of Desus, whether directly or indirectly, that someone is following them to send envelopes home with bullets to threaten them in this way, exerting pressure. And not just the members of Desus, you've been exerting and exerting pressure on SMC Members because you haven't been able to break anyone else. And that's not all. When the President of the National Assembly remains in Parliament because he is the President, the Chihuahuas - where is Lidija Dijak Mirnik to come forward - what are her uncles and the other presidents of the parties have challenged the President of the National Assembly? One last thing to do, and I'm gonna drop by because I've got five more minutes. You rule out anyone who thinks otherwise than you. And we connect and unite. Someone can be funny, they have all the right, but someone who drives two Mercedes and a Porsche and everything is funny to him is hanging out with the one who, if he comes to power, will get these two Mercedes or Mercedes and BMWs on the first day, because they have it written down in the statute that it is necessary to renationalize Slovenia. But he does not realize that this will happen to him tomorrow, what happened to some in 1945. Let's leave it. I'm worried about the future. It is unacceptable, however, that Members and visible representatives of the Government are threatened in different ways. In 2012 the saints rang in Maribor. Who? Lefties. The ones who set up the customers from the Left. I'll be back in this house tomorrow. A meeting of the Committee on Agriculture has been convened with regard to service dogs and service horses. Look, gentlemen of the Left, here's the footage from 2012. You brought the goat to protest among the police, among the firecrackers, among the gas, and none of you protested. But police horses and dogs are taken care of as it should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandelli, you don't have a replica because you didn't discuss it at the previous session. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] You don't have a replica because you haven't discussed it, because we probably know that. You can sign up for time sharing if there's anything left, and then you'll react in the debate. Mrs. Tomić, you don't have a replica, either, because you don't have time. Let the procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure be if I do not warn you, as I am colleague Bah Žibert, that I will give you a warning if you take advantage of the procedural proposal for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I have a procedural proposal that the representative of the Government come here and lie and manipulate it is unacceptable. It refers to a false manifesto printed by SDS. He talks about me as the MPs who are supposed to promise the minimum, and this is again the fake news that Nova24 produced in terms of discreditation. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u39	Mrs. Tomić, this is not a procedural proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u40	homicide of the person and so on [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u41	What do you have a procedural proposal for?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u42	My procedural proposal is that Mr Kangler behaves, firstly, respectfully, secondly, to communicate on the basis of verified facts. In the interior ministry, having someone lying and lying is really dangerous and unacceptable. And the fact that the children's playgrounds were incinerated has nothing to do with the protestors, but the fact that Tone Stojko, as a chronicler who's been following politics for 50 years, has got tear gas in his eyes, you know, but here's the problem. I only ask Mr Kangler to separate that there are many groups at every protest.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u43	Mrs Tomić, this is not a procedural proposal. Please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u44	There are a lot of groups and let it stop generalizing. Because this shows his ignorance [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u45	Mrs. Tomić [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u46	Or she's lying on purpose. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u47	This is not a procedural proposal and I am giving you a reminder, as I promised you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u48	Thank you. I'll take it with pleasure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u49	Please, if you do not abuse procedural motions for replication in the future. As a matter of fact, you have your first warning. I won't be able to take your words anyway because you don't have time to talk anymore. We continue the debate. No more complications. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the following word. He's not here. But we continue with Mr. Robert Pollnar, who is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! If we are discussing to prove to each other that Slovenian politics is only what I impose on us as an imperative or what we are determined on different sides, then it really doesn't matter what we think. There's no delusion that can't be justified, which can't be proved that she was inevitable, that we just had to cushion her. You can always find reasons to celebrate your own defeat. So if by this debate today we want to prove that our failures are inevitable, then we will be able to do this task easily, why everything in apology is allowed and anything possible. Apologetics can also celebrate the greatest distortion as a precise perceived necessity. According to our opposition apology, there are only two motives for criticising the current authorities: the general unsustainable state of all matters in the country and the necessity of early elections, which will in themselves, by their execution alone, resolve such a situation. It's a very simple position. He is not without strength, whose attitude would not have worked out, which he would not have been able to practice, who would not feel close to perfection, carried away with his vertigo, hesitant, and hesitant. Bezjak always finds an even bigger pain in the ass for admiring him. Apologetics are usually without tact. They have no sense of measure, no sense of inadequacy, no sense of inadmissibility. That is exactly what denunifies the actions of the most capable among them. Suddenly, a moment of vulgarity emerges, equaled to the common simpletons in their glorious simplicity. Applicants to meet with moral abstractions are disgusted with the two processes that appear to be being carried out within the Slovenian police. The first is the process of coping with the calculus of police red tape. The indolence that is marked by the glorious tradition of inert compromise with savagery and violence. The second is the process of making decisions that intend to transform the police from a chronic union problem to a serious state institution. The operators of both processes and decision makers are people who, for this reason, need to be burned on the pile. Their work is totally unacceptable for the country, why Slovenian police must be directed, in the belief of the proposed spirit outcasts, to one status, to the status of an uninterested recorder. In the sad play of our political mitomania is the figure that has emerged: the apology of savagery, unequivocal, correct, untouchable, always at the service of those who fight against the virus and disease with savagery on the streets of Ljubljana. We are all enemies of Slovenia against him, because Slovenia is full of it to the extent of the problemlessness. The apologetic savagery with political lewdness and kindness defends savagery from order, powerless from the powerful, defends Slovenia from itself as an instinctive borderer of humility, selfishness and fanatical monomaniacism. He hates facts that are not in his best interests, works unrelentingly, and is conditioned by his existence to prevent anything else. The apologetic of savagery is a measure that eliminates all other measures than the destruction of Slovenia. His courage had already been prophesied to us by Dostoyevsky in the image of Ferdiszchenka. He wins every competition for the most disgraceful feat. This homicidal mutant of Slovenian mistakes and delusion will do everything to take the lead in our destiny. Therefore, he advocates the disillusionment of the lowest passions, allowing for anything that excludes minimal order. For him, the minimum level of order is the messenger of destruction, order is the poison. The apologetic attitude of savagery is undeniably humiliated so that it can be irresistibly disgraced. Nothing can provoke him more, not arouse his anger than the thinking man, the protagonist of adventure, in which he universally establishes one of his countless forms, the man who thinks with his head. Everything, everything, but not orderly, yells the apology of savagery. To eliminate orderliness, to prevent it everywhere, because orderliness is a subversion of its originality, orderliness reveals its simplicity, political spine and its recklessness. Beware of Slovenia's regulations imposed on you by the apology of savagery! It is a lair of immeasurability and immaculateness, a pit of failure and disappearance. The apologetics of savagery have their own meetings. It cements the right to everything and prepares for everything. Right to everything is their only guide. Some have changed past relations, but they have not changed the principles of complete shamelessness and ruthlessness. They continue to look forward to evil. The apologetic of savagery excludes risk and uncertainty, coincidence and game, known and unknown. He rejects the impossible because it makes no sense to him. There are no temptations in him, for first of all there are the lowliness of mind and the laity of the future in the eyes and gestures of his leading husbands and wives. There's empty confidentiality all around him. Beware of Slovenia's vindictive ambition of the apologist of savagery and his evil appeal! His bitterness and indiscreet hatred are abusing your drama, epidemiologically and socially, and putting it on his private account. Beware of those who take away value from everything as natural enemies of order, for apologists are the same, but diversity creates spirit! On the contrary. Follows the truth, Slovenia, that horizon that builds authentic existence and its working credibility! The truth isn't just a verifiable relationship, it's uncomparable more than that. This is the very possibility of man’s speciality, the saving value of his actions, which raises his world, this inexhaustible diversity of eternity in the form of every detail. It's the only way diversity celebrates the deepest. Everywhere is boundlessly far from any relativism and its insurmountable unrest. Everything that is happening on the Slovenian political scene today is nothing new. It is only faster and more brutal to continue the bad processes of the past. Today's criticism of power is not part of an evolutionary process, at the end of which a critical ambition is created, but we are talking about a process of deepening divisions between us and them, ours and theirs. We'll always attack them and theirs. But we and our own will always defend ourselves without compromising basic ethical principles and standards. So I'm talking about a criticism that's highly colored, party-interesting and clanic. Although this type of biased criticism is better than silence, it does not arouse the hope that political space can be civilized. In such an atmosphere, it is impossible to open complex political, social and economic themes. Everything is reduced to one question and a dilemma, who steals more and who steal more – ours or theirs? There's nothing more to say. Each statement we make increases the existing one or starts a new misunderstanding. Before this irrational fact, we are completely powerless. The same words have many different meanings that we do not make at all. We know what we're saying, but we don't know what anyone else will hear about it. There is no way in which our words can be uniform or at least approximated in order to prevent radical misunderstandings. Would it be possible to understand ourselves less and less - and show that we also understand the nature of the less, as much as possible, of the means we can find in it - so could we still find a mental point of view for future actions? But maybe we could use the last and the most sublime, the deepest, simplest and truest word ever uttered over the human race, that is, its politics, its teachings and conflicts. Perhaps, though, we can whisper on our own about such a visible sensation: They do not know what they are doing. So, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I was going to tell you this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u51	Thank you very much. In view of the debates that have been signed out and given that time has passed for some of the parliamentary groups, we have exhausted the list of discussers and are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Then there will be a time-sharing and you will be able to apply to remain interested. First of all, you have the floor now, Mr Kangler, for the final part of the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] In sharing time, you will also be able to apply and you will receive the word as the last in front of the proposer if you wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Today we have witnessed a debate in the National Assembly and also in the past due to a request made by the so-called KUL opposition. The KUL opposition has gathered a sufficient number of votes to hold the meeting, even though the quorum has not been assured. However, she demanded and recommended that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia replace Minister Aleš Hojs. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not replace Minister Aleš Hojs because the opposition KUL has put an interpellation and this is a matter of the National Assembly and not of the Government. The opposition KUL proposes to initiate the discharge procedure of the Director General of the Police, Dr Anton Ola. The government also informs you that the Minister of the Interior is the only one who is called upon not to propose the replacement of the Director General of the Police, Dr. Anton Olay, because he estimates that Dr. Anton Olaj is well, professionally and conscientiously leading the Slovenian police. The government ensures that Slovenia has professional and non-political, professional police. All these pressures on the leadership of Slovenian police and individual police officers are unacceptable. The National Assembly of the KUL Coalition recommends that, due to the situation and the situation, the government resign. On behalf of the government, I tell you - it is sad that some members of the opposition themselves have made sure that the government has a majority in the national assembly, that is at least 46 votes - that every public debate is too much for the government to have majority support. The government has majority support, and that's 46 votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u53	Thank you very much. There is also a proposaler, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u54	Thank you. Thank you, too, for these messages from the government. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to return to the character of the apologist of savagery, who was described and created by his colleague, Orator Polnar. I think there is one aspect of this definition missing. I agree with some of these definitions of the current society and what is happening. In fact, we have a group of people who could be called the apologists of savagery. However, I think that some bias has been made by colleague Polnar in terms of what all involves the logic of this apologist of savagery. In particular, this image of this apologist should include some of the things that Mr Kangler has pointed out in his response to the debate by Ambassadors Lidija Dijak Mirnik and her colleague Violeta, when he in fact wasted as at the beginning of this session or at the first beginning of this session a few weeks ago even a bunch of deceptions and lies. And that's what I think is one of the key reasons why this meeting is and why these recommendations were ever written. Because we are witnessing a savagery, a savagery declared by the government, carried out by a group of people currently in power, and manifests some total contempt for everything that was some basic civilisational basis of state regulation. The foundation that, Mr Polnar, will know this, has been divided from the time of enlightenment to the left and right when the first patterns of parliamentaryism were formed. This dichotomy he's talking about, the left and right, is something that is the heart of democracy. It is a conflict of different ideas, which also appears mainly in relation to how these two genders or these two sides of Parliament understand mainly their inhabitants and their inhabitants. If we're talking about the apologists of savagery, we have to look unfortunately for them in the current government. Because what the current authorities are doing is savagery over their own people. Mr. Kangler says no one poisoned the Ljubljanas. I don't know if those videos we all saw were mounted, if it was some kind of action film and I don't know what. No one in this Chamber from the references to these recommendations advocates violence in protest and does not advocate what they do, yes, and I will use that word, hooligans in these protests. No one's defending them. But, Mr. Kangler, when you say you responded to violence, that's a lie. What you're explaining is holding to the point when you say the police have dissolved the meeting. Here. But until that moment and after that moment before the use of the water cannon and the mass use of the tear gas, as far as I know, no granite cube has been blocked, no firecrackers have been dropped and no physical violence against police officers, which of course I thank them for all the work they are doing in this country. And you're talking about it, including your minister, how mushy and lazy they are. And what we stress is that that moment, due to some political orders, the police were forced to use excessive force. And this is a form of savagery and the apology of such savagery you are the one who advocates it. It is also savagery that the Minister in the current government, who was the minister of the same party in one previous government, I think now for two weeks, is trapped in some hearings where he is actually discussing with one of the entrepreneurs the conduct of economic crime, still insists on his position. The savagery is that none of the coalition partners, nor the one they belong to, is capable of saying, yes, to us it is unacceptable, such a minister can no longer be minister. It is also a form of savagery, and it is also a signal sent by this authority to people. As a result of such cases, we have made these recommendations and, in view of such cases, we are assessing - and in each normal country would be so - that early elections would be the only item on the agenda in the public debate in the country. But your arrogance and your attitude, which is totally contemptible to everyone who thinks at least a little differently from you, is the true savagery and apologies of savagery are the ones that kept you in these positions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Polnar has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First thing. I built my debate exclusively on the material submitted for the meeting. It was a basic guide for me. I deliberately pawned it so that my implementation could be interpreted in different ways. I also expected a similar reaction to what has happened now. But in all this story, I personally don't think it's a matter of interpretation. This is about something completely different. This is about the level thing. You know, ladies and gentlemen, we're people who can't get below a level we can't get below, and there are people who can overcome a level they're not given to climb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u57	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. Everyone who's been reported and you've wanted it, you've got the word. However, since the time set for discussion has remained, I ask whether there is still interest under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I can see that. Therefore, let me also read the warning that if you wish to discuss one of the representatives of the proposer and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the microphone button. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Now I'm opening the list. Please report to all interested parties. We have 29 advertised debaters, everyone has a minute and 14 seconds available. Before we begin the debate, Mr Marko Bandelli has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u58	Thank you, President. I knew that in the opposition they would use this system of theirs, classic, to destroy the coalition, yes, I apologize because it was always the opposition, and soon the opposition will be back. This instrument can also prevent others from saying anything. There's nothing else I can say. If I still have a minute to come, then I will say what I intended to say to the distinguished Secretary of State, who mentioned me in his debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Bandelli. I understand your procedural considerations or your proposal, but I have no manoeuvre to change anything. However, we will now see and read all the reported debaters if they will really debate. The first one gets the word "Joseph Lenart." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. At the conclusion of today's debate, it is clear that this government is a minority, it has no support, so it should leave its seat and leave as soon as possible for elections and so on. What can I say? He also wants this government to be shown that it is undemocratic, and somehow I can express myself in this way, in all the demand and in the eyes of the proposers, the towers are actually a smoky population against this government. This is all that is described in these requirements. So the government should step down, the minister should step down, and Dr. Olai, the director of police, should step down. But to be honest, street violence was and the police acted to protect people, Ljubljanans and our MPs. So it's like I wouldn't support it. This government has good results, so let the government stay. So the eyewitnesses are totally unreal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u61	The next word is Mrs. Mojca Škrnjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Vatovec used to speak the untruths. It's not true that the police went wild, people went wild in front of parliament. And it's not true they didn't throw granite points inside. I witnessed it myself, I was in Parliament, I was sitting on two committees, I was sitting on an Infrastructure and Culture Committee. It began with a scream first outside and then there were firecrackers and then granite cubes started throwing into parliament and fire was also there. We were trapped in Parliament itself, we didn't know how to get out, we didn't know if we'd come out alive or if Parliament would burn before the police came. And in fact, nothing could have been more possible than if the police had dissolved the meeting like it did, otherwise they would have killed us. It also looked like they were going to break into Parliament. We were alone here and outside some of the poor police officers who attacked them, and of course the police intervention was needed. Everything happened, all the violence happened before. I assure you that, and here we are witnesses to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are now witnessing the manoeuvre mentioned earlier by Mr Bandelli. Checkouts are all in order. The next one should be discussing mag. Marko Pogačnik, who is not in the hall. The following should be discussed by Mrs Eva Irgle, who has checked out. The next panellist is Mr Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u64	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. The government itself has caused people to go to the streets and show that they do not agree with what the current government is doing because in fact this government acts like some political gangsters from the 1930s. It's not a way of ruling, it's not a way of democracy, it's not democracy at all. The government has caused people to go to the streets, resist you, and they have also made it clear and loud. Then you people, who have demonstrated democratically and clearly that they do not agree with your decisions and actions, have actually smothered and watered down with the tears of gratitude. Not only do we not deserve such a government, we must not have such a government. So as soon as possible at the early elections, to put democracy back on its feet. At present, it is on its very broken legs or on its foundation or is almost no longer there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next should have the word, Mr Leon Merjasec, who has also checked out. The next word is Mrs Nada Brinovšek, who also checked out. These are indeed proper manoeuvres, fellow SDS Members. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr. Tomaž Lisec is next. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. He checked out, too. Dear colleagues from the SDS and NSI, I comment as President because it is a bit unusual for 29 Members and Members to apply in a time-sharing session, and then, as in the current tape, you log out. It is my duty to read the list of reported discussers and to find out that you have been checked out. It's nothing out of the ordinary, and I don't know why you're upset. Next reported is Alenka Jeraj, who is also signing out. We have a procedural proposal in between. Mr. Korazzi, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u66	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. On the other hand, I ask you to calm down the SDS and NSIs, which are constantly jumping into the air, constantly commenting between the debates. That's what's been going on for the last six months. I can't take it anymore, and I don't want to take it anymore. I'm here on this side quietly and I'm listening to you and I'm towards you, as you call it, politically loyal that I'm just putting up with you. But then you do it on the other side too. But it's not that you keep saying what's going on here on this side, but you never see yourself because you never set up a mirror. One day you'll have to adjust it and start listening to it yourself. Because you're constantly yelling, screaming like, I don't know, I'm not gonna say now, in some middle-aged middle-school class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your proposal. I am also trying to keep this part of the hall, where colleagues from SDS and NSI sit, but I am not doing very well. Not because of my incompetence, but because of something else. The next panellist is Mr Bojan Podkoršek. He's not in the hall. The next panellist is Mr Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u68	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that since today's meeting of the National Assembly, I have been sitting in my seat calmly and tablely, not getting excited or commenting. I therefore ask my predecessors and you to be exact in your comments. However, as regards today's debate, which I have also commented at the previous meeting, I can only reiterate that today's meeting, the state's emergency situation and the necessity of early elections, has no basis either in their arguments or in their evidence. I will therefore be very pleased to repeat what I have done on the committee and where I voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Montenegro. I agree with you in the work where you said we should be more exact. I will make an effort to warn Members of Parliament by name who will shout and speak during the debates of other Members. Thank you for this proposal. I'll be consistent. The next panellist is Mr Jura Ferrjan, who also checked out, if I understand correctly. The next panellist is Mr Janez Moškrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. As a member of the committee, I could have explained more on the committee itself. But I can say again what's important. It is said that the meeting was convened because of severe violence on the part of the Slovenian police and the government. We found out from all the reports that this wasn't the case, that's the point. The point is, peaceful and peaceful protests are allowed. Thank God we live in a democracy where protests are something normal until the point when politics uses them to its advantage. And this happened to us when the world collapsed to the Slovenian opposition on 13 March 2020. My proposal for a meeting also reflected my misunderstanding of the operation of the water cannon. Let me just say that all I said is that the water cannon is so designed that it can have a water bump or a combination of something else or even color. That's how we were taught. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The next debater should be Mr Alexander Reberšek, and he has also checked out. Mag. Branko Grimes should have a word, and he's also checked out. [[advertising from the hall]] Is there something wrong, Mr. Reberšek? We'll have a face-to-face conversation. The next debate is Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yeah, and I'd like to say a few more words. I would like to highlight my previous debate a few days ago, that today's recommendations proposed by the KUL coalition are actually ridiculous, pathetic, that this reflects their inability to act, for example, when the Prime Minister calls on him to dismiss his own minister when he calls for the Minister to dismiss the director of the police and when, in the end, he recommends that the whole government resign and hand over power to the KUL coalition, which has suffered a major political defeat today. The coalition, the right, the ruling coalition has proven to have an absolute majority. But the proof that the KUL coalition didn't even raise their voices is that they don't even trust themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Yeah, we don't have much time, but there's nothing to say about it. First of all, on the seriousness of the meeting, respected citizens and citizens, look at the seats on the proposers' side. Actually, they're empty. There are no candidates in the hall. Having a time-sharing at all means that they've been checked out a lot. So much for how serious we have the subject. On behalf of the applicants, I think that five Members or Members of Parliament should perform. There's only one, four no-shows in this room. So much for how important and serious the session is and how bad it really is in this country. But there's only one thing I'm gonna say. When you talk about gassing the country, you make a fool of yourself and humiliate Slovenian police officers who have used measures to avoid the spread of violence. And just one more sentence. Someone told me. I walked past the protestors and saw three ladies, one had a baby carriage. I felt bad for thinking there was a kid in there. But you know who was in the wheelchair? The purse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u75	The next debater is Mr Ljubo Žnidar. He doesn't want a word. The next panellist is Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President. That's right. Just two words. I'll say something about impatience. You're always talking about these granite cubes that have been thrown up. They did throw them, but they probably had a pattern. If you remember in 2010, Mrs Katja Shoba, who you know well, threw the dice into Parliament. And they got it and they wrote it. Don't tell me now, but I'm just saying what's documented. It's about impatience. We were not impatient, we were never as impatient as you were when you were always in the opposition. Mr Mitja Štular – do you know who Mitja Štular is? He was the President of the RTV Programme Council, and I was the President of the Supervisory Board, an esdeesian who spoke against this government, different things, and none fought with him. As for you, Mr. Kangler, what do you care about my cars, what do you care about my cars? You know what I'm gonna tell you. I'm a proud taxpayer, proud. I bought them fair and square. But you have a minister talking about stupid taxes. Think about it here, and if it's okay for a minister like that to stay in his position. And you have another one who's been accused of criminal activity like Dickaucic, and everything will be seen. Say it a little bit. And then you wonder about impatience. It's clear what you're up to and don't say anything else. There are truths here too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The next discusser is Franci Kepa, who is also signing out. Mag. Dean Kaloh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u78	Chairman, thank you very much. I have to take this as a Maribor Member. We and the Secretary of State, Mr. France Kangler, well know what the spiral of violence that took place in 2012 in Maribor means, what hanging dolls on bridges in Maribor mean, and what visits to certain hooligan groups by the homes of city saints mean. These were really unpleasant scenes that we were looking at back then. A certain representation of this has also taken place on this, I'd say, left-wing Hujska side. And that's actually worrying. I estimate that hatred and exclusion comes directly from these miles, which, with some subversiveness, want to disrupt this government structure, which has been set up perfectly legitimately here in the National Assembly. Abotnics are evident from the proposer, as are these recommendations. No one will give up, the elections have been regularly marked April 24th by the President, and I will see you then. Let's weigh, or I doubt you'll beat us, and then you can talk about any new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next debate should be Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, who has resigned, and Franz Rosec has also resigned. Ms Susana Lep also resigned from the debate she applied for. She's got the word "Iva Dimic" for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I'm not going to sign off because I think it's right that we should also speak about the subject that you called on in the opposition. The fact is that you copied the 2012 script when you succeeded in violent protests makes a change in the government. At that time she also appeared with us now sitting in the Hall of Alenka Bratušek, but it seems to me that the Slovenian people have matured to know what democracy is. Democracy allows governments to change. So it's really hard to watch the right-centre government hurt you. Of course, you use all that is possible, including hateful words in the National Assembly, to - and - move to the streets among people, which grieves everything and is worrying how far you can go. I am convinced that the government is doing well, that it has something to show for it, and that is probably why the pain is even greater.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Elena Zavadlav Usaj is also logging out of the list. But Mr. Boris Doblekar wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Now I don't know how the KUL opposition feels about making such proposals and conclusions about early elections, but about replacing ministers with the Prime Minister, because there is no one in the Chamber. I don't see any, except for two from the Left, three from the Sab, one unrelated Member, and another from the LMŠ. And that's it, and then we're sitting here. What is it now? Does this mean that the motioner does not have the support of the opposition at all? This is a waste of time and taxpayer's money. I hope that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will see this and that they will remember that when they go to the elections, regular elections. The president has already told us when they will. I hope that, given that you really have no interest in being here in Parliament or here to debate, I do not believe that you will get any vote in the elections at all. I don't understand that anymore. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Let me just say about the magnetogram and also about those who may be following us that the SD Group has announced obstruction of this point, so they are not in the Chamber. However, the LMŠ Group left the meeting in protest. We are continuing to discuss when colleagues from the SDS Group are calmed down. We've got two more reports. Thank you. Mr State Secretary has the floor. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to the honourable Member of the Vatov. Dear Member, you did not want and do not understand that there was a Presidency summit in Slovenia, more than 40 representatives of foreign countries. At the time the police ordered the crowd to disperse, they wanted to take the main circles and roads and the bypass around Ljubljana. This threatened the lives of drivers, their lives, the lives of police officers, and protected persons. Speaking of most, you've made sure there are 46 votes here today. And when I look in the hall, I get the feeling like they're insulted and they left the hall. Democracy needs to be fought. Mr Bandelli, I give you more cars, more than you have, and I hope that your workers are so well rewarded and that you pay them so well.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The last one has the word of Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u86	Dear Secretary of State, I agree that we must fight. I'm here, so as far as I'm concerned, I have no bad conscience. As for the 2012 repetition, what the then government carried out, we all know. A strong suspicion of corruption, which fell over the Prime Minister Ivan Janša, who angered people and therefore went to protest. That's why they were born. And now it's repeating itself. And you're surprised. Yeah, but why? Because this government acts like some corrupt community that sees this country as prey. That's why you have protests, and that's why we should go. Just one more thing. Mrs. Gregorčič was talking about pathetic. It is a pathetic government that can maintain power only in such a way that one afternoon in the middle of a white day in the capital is flooded by children’s playgrounds and passing through Ljubljana’s streets. That's pathetic, and that's why you need to calm down as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-85.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Fortunately, we have concluded the debate because this event on the side of the SDS colleagues is indeed beyond all the limits of good and cultural dialogue. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I also conclude this agenda item and the 85th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
