ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 20, paragraph 2, Article 58, paragraph 1 and Article 60, paragraph 1, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 95th meeting. 2. 2021. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Tina Heferle from 12.30 p.m. to 17 p.m., Marjan Šarec from 13 p.m., Matjaž Han, Rudy Medved, Only Bevk until 14 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček, Franz Breznik, Luka Mesec, Marijan Pojbič and Mag. Dean Kaloh. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, cooperation shall not be announced by any Member or Member at a meeting outside the seat of the National Assembly using an application for remote meetings. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the 5,000 elections and voters, mag. Mr Gregor Kos and Mr Juret Pogačnik, at the 8th item of the agenda, representative of the State Council at the 10th item of the agenda, representative of the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia as representative of the 5 thousand elections and voters at the 12th item of the agenda, Mrs Lučko Böhm, President of the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia at the 21st item and representatives of the Government at all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. For this reason, neither will the National Assembly decide on the proposal of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups of 25. 2. 2021 for withdrawal of the 13th item from the agenda of the sitting. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 37 questions from Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, Dr. Anže Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Jože Podgoršek, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, 16.45 to 17.45 and Janez Cigler Kralj, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, 16-18 hours and mag. Andrej Shircelj, Minister of Finance from 6:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša. The first question will be posed by the Magus. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u2	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! “You are not only violating the human rights of those who now have to pay excessively or 91,000 people who have lost their jobs, but also the human rights of future generations, including the unborn, who will pay these bills,” the SDS President stressed. So you wrote on the SDS website years ago. Today, when you run the government, Slovenia is in debt more than ever, 82.5% of gross domestic product, slightly over €36 billion was a public debt at the end of last year. The highest in Slovenia at any time. Each Slovenian owes more than 18,000 euros. That's the data, that's the facts. I'm curious, Prime Minister. What has changed that today is not the problem that it was years ago? It's a year since you took over the government, and the fact is, it's been behind us and you for a very difficult and unusual year marked by the virus. A great deal of action had to be taken, measures to contain the virus and a lot of measures to help people and the economy. Were all these measures true and effective? Could things be done better? I've asked myself this question many times. Have you ever wondered what you've done wrong to make Slovenia register above average death rates due to covido, in fact, we're almost the worst? Have you ever wondered why our schools had to be closed for the longest or longer than the rest of Europe and practically the longest? Why did we take more from our children than we needed? I know that it is necessary to take difficult and unpopular measures in the crisis and that Slovenia has been in a really difficult situation in the past year. That's a fact. But this fact further obliges you to make decisions wisely and with careful consideration. A lot of measures that have restricted people, on the one hand, and a lot of measures that should help people and the economy, on the other hand. But they were effective, I wonder? Were the results the way you expected them to be? What was wrong with Slovenia’s failure in the second wave, and what would be the difference if or when the third wave occurred to us?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u4	Thank you so much for the questions. What has changed since this quotation was made? Interest rates have changed and the international and domestic environment has changed. The other thing that changed was that the money we borrowed last year went to people and the economy to keep new jobs, the money you borrowed when I gave this quote, and it went to rescue banks, including two tycoon banks, where you gave half a billion euros to those who would otherwise have to go bankrupt if that debt had been wiped out, today drive in yachts, Porsches and buy villas in Ljubljana. In last year, Slovenia was in debt, not in debt above average. I think that our assignment is somewhere below the average of the European Union, and I also think that it is strong below the average of the European monetary union or the euro area, and we owe ourselves very cheap. We even issued a negative interest rate bond, which means taxpayers will pay back less than we borrowed. And you borrowed 5 to 7% interest. In addition, you did not want to accept the cheap money from the European Bank Resolution Mechanism, because of this money, of course, there were also the conditions under which these tycoon banks could not be saved, but you hung all the money for the rehabilitation of banks on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers and also future generations. That's the difference. Lies about the death of most people in Slovenia because of covido that the schools are closed the longest would not be answered again because they are already pathetic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u5	Thank you very much. My colleague Bratušek, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Although I wanted the President to say what would be different in the future, some facts must be returned. Mr Janša, the highest interest rate in our country has ever been reached by you in 2012, at 5.5%. This is verified data. The fact is, the number of deaths per million inhabitants is 829. The European Union average is a thousand 209, in Germany, for example, 826. How many schools are closed? This graph, I think it says more than just words. These are the facts, and these are the numbers. As for 2013 and the rehabilitation of banks, I repeat many times, and once again, when I entered Slovenian politics, the banks were already in enormous debt. The biggest bank hole, the biggest loans we had to recover, was created during the first Janša government in 2006, 2007 and 2008. The largest companies that needed to be saved – Bell 1, Bell 2, T-2, Vegrad, and I could still list, I will not speak politically where they belong. But my purpose today was to talk about what would be different in the future, without ever turning back again and again. I think Slovenians and Slovenians deserve you to step in front of them and tell them what went wrong in that second wave, because obviously, if we're the worst in a number of things, something went wrong. And let's all do our best to make sure that if there's a third wave, that's not going to be the case. Too many people have died, too long have we had closed schools and really, Prime Minister [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u8	I'm just answering a question. If questions are about the past and the question begins with a quote from the past, then I am likely to have the right to answer that. But you're intruding on the subject because you're announcing and asking the question. As far as closed schools are concerned, each chart can be shown. The fact is that Slovenia did not have the longest closed school in Europe at the time of the epidemic. Already neighbouring Italy had them closed, substantially longer. In addition, there are different approaches. Whether a school where students go to school one day a week, the rest of the days are at home, whether it's closed or open, that's also a question. The fact is, in Slovenia, not one school day has been lost, since the Ministry of Education has also organised a second wave and prepared all the necessary programs to enable children and students to learn from a distance. It is true that this is not the same, but it is more important than that schools are closed, as you say. The school year is not lost, and if anything is missing, it can be extended if it is such a disaster. I think the school kids are gonna be excited about this and they're gonna be happy to do it. As far as the dead are concerned. First of all, anyone who's died is too much. Anyone who can be saved is too much, and every death we absolutely regret. But you have to count before the epidemic is over and do statistics and in this regard, I'll say, politically expose, but it's shortsighted. Look, in the last few days we've got a dead count there about 10 a day, which is a lot. But Germany, which has a significantly better health system, has between 500 and 600 a day. Statistics will apply when the epidemic is over, let's hope that soon, and then things can be checked. Nor does it argue that in Slovenia the most people die because of covid in the world or in Europe or I do not know what graph you have shown. Of those who are sick, Slovenian health care greets more people than German health care. And this is an insult to those who strive night and day. But why did you call against wearing masks in the middle of the second wave, but it's your problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Cousin, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u10	More than just an important topic of what went wrong in the second wave and what must be done differently in the future, I propose that this be discussed in the National Assembly. All the numbers I've shown are facts. There are facts. And the fact is, in our country, an average number of people died. Yes, everyone is sorry, and I am sorry for everyone too, and I would like to discuss this and see what measures have been taken, but they have not worked and worked. The fact is also that Slovenia is in most of its history, 82.5% is in debt. It is said that there is little room for manoeuvre to help people and the economy. The budget deficit was only half a billion in January. This is also a historically high deficit. There hasn't been one in Slovenia in a month. Therefore, in the SAB, I am concerned that there is a shortage of manoeuvres to help people and the economy, and economic operators warn that once the waiting measures for work have ceased, they will have to forgive. 91 thousand 499 people were unemployed at the end of January, 100,000 of us are approaching. All of this is verifiable data. I've said many times that numbers will make it very difficult for you to find me lying. All of these are numbers that do not give us or people with the hope that we will be able to do differently in a possible third wave and that the situation will be significantly better than it was in the second wave. In the second wave, and I hope that we can all confess together, we have unfortunately failed. Believe me, I myself would like the government to deal with the second wave significantly, significantly better.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March 2021, in the framework of the votes. The next question to the Prime Minister will be posed by the Victory of the Helinčič Noblenit.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u12	Thank you very much. It's time to open the guesthouse. It's been closed for over four months now, the innkeepers are desperate, people are nervous, nervous, and we need to hang out. In fact, hospitality belongs to one of the most affected industries in Slovenia, so it makes sense that, given that more than a thousand 300 restaurants for food and drink are closed and that about 15% of the guests will no longer open restaurants, I think it is very important that this is opened and revitalized. All the restaurants and restaurants that were opened in the meantime last year took into account all the measures. Guests in these restaurants as well. They wore masks, tables were about a mile and a half apart, they were infected at tables, at entrances, at exits, at evenings, radiation, disinfection, and no one was infected there. Now people are hanging out in garages and other private spaces, where they certainly do not take into account restrictions, neither masks, nor safety measures, nor hygiene measures, or associate at various political meetings without masks. There can be infections there. That's why I think it would make sense to do something. I would suggest that first the terraces be opened, say by 21:00, by cancelling the movement limit and rising to at least 10 p.m., not as early as it is now. All hygiene and safety measures — the distance between tables, disinfection, cleaning, disinfection of tables, chairs and similar matters — must be taken into account when opening. In this case, even a decree allowing a maximum of ten persons to be merged could not be taken into account. For example, if there are 5 people sitting on one table and 6 people sitting on the other, then we shouldn't take that into account here. And we'd keep that ban on collecting at the bar. There's another nonsense here. For example, guests are not allowed to sell alcohol. I don't know why. This is like the prohibition of 20 years in the United States. And now, say, someone comes to eat something, but they can't drink one beer. He has to take his pizza with him and eat it around the corner, and then he has to go to the gas station and buy himself a beer. This too has to be arranged, because it doesn't work together. As far as the food service is concerned. Families usually go to lunch together, close family members, coworkers, in short, those who are already associated with each other and are in the same bubble. These measures, I think, now [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Look, I don't know a country in Europe that would have a similar average number of infections per day as we do, and would have a restaurant open. Maybe it's somewhere because some countries are experimenting a little bit, but at this daily incident, or the 14-day or the week, if you want, I don't think it's anywhere. It is true, however, that hospitality, along with the tourism industry, the industry of meetings, the organisation of events and so on, is among the most affected, that it has been going on for a long time, including a large proportion of the aid we are giving to this industry. So nobody's without help. Of course, it is different if you can work and serve and develop or are dependent on state aid and do not even know how long it will take. So we fully understand this situation. However, in this state, which we have, according to the number of infections, according to the emergence of new versions of the virus, we need to weigh what is a priority. Here, too, we listen to different priorities in this National Assembly. The virus does not spread itself, the virus spreads through contacts and the restriction of viral transmission means limiting the spread of contacts, limiting contacts, especially of the risk. After about one year, we know how much activity contributes to risky contacts. Epidemiologists are following this and they're also ordering government action. When it comes to weighing between schools and innkeepers, they usually weigh schools according to the priority. It is true, however, that we have calculated that we will be able to relax some tourist activities, especially catering activities, the opening of outdoor terraces in regions that will be better. We have calculated that Primorska or the Coast, which was far better in the first wave because of climate conditions and so on, will be the first region where these activities can also be released. Unfortunately today we are looking at a picture of the Coastal-Kraška region, which is four times worse than, say, Posavia, which in the second wave had the worst picture for a long time. Weather is no better in Brežica than in Koper, but apparently the question of responsibility was treated differently on the Coast than in Posav, where after they had a difficult situation in the autumn, however, they began to act differently. It is up to us, look, it is entirely up to us when the terraces will be open, when the inn will be open and so on, or how quickly they will be opened. But there is no guarantee that this will then remain until the end of the year. Now we're in stagnation somewhere on the way out of the second wave. New versions of the virus are widely distributed in Europe. Unfortunately, I will say, too, that we have successfully or some have successfully imported a South African version, which, in addition to being more infectious, is also more resistant to vaccines. The British strain is practically everywhere in Europe. Look what's going on in the Czech Republic. Today, the Czech Republic has engaged an army to fight covid or control. In this regard, we must be prepared for the trials of the so-called third wave. But it is up to us how bad it will be and some risks in the direction of rapid opening are not in place.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor to request a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u16	I'd like to make a comparison of the neighbouring country. Croatia will open the terraces of restaurant and restaurant today, March 1st, from 6 p.m. to 22 p.m. The distance between the tables is three meters, and between the tables is one and a half feet. But private accommodation hotels are already open. It's the same thing in Serbia. Locals, rafts, restaurants are open until 8:00 p.m., of course taking into account all other measures, distances and so on. More or less everything is open in Bosnia. In Italy it is a gradual opening through the countries and the localities are open until 6 p.m., of course at the time of disinfection, for a table of up to four persons from the same household and so on. Another matter is very important, this situation of people in the country. People are getting more and more excited, nervous, things are escalating in different areas, and I think this is also one of the things we need to take into account. I think, Mr President, that maybe after four months now, at least we could relax these guest houses a little, at least the ones in the open.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u17	Thank you very much. President of the Government, if you'd like to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u18	The countries you mentioned that these things have been released have a daily infection rate of under 200. Croatia I think even under a hundred if the statistics are real. At least it was just like that. This means that the virus is rare and that the risk is lower at this release. The number of infections in Slovenia is on average between 700 and 800 per day, and this means that the virus is practically everywhere and each release is further expanded. The Czech Republic has also opened hospitality activities in the new year, after a new year partly because of the reasons you mentioned, according to psychological and so on, today they have an extraordinary situation when they had to call the military, because there are always drastic consequences, the true number of the sick, the number of the sick and the dead with delay. So let's do everything we can to get to yellow, as far as the epidemiological situation is concerned, and then we can count on being able to release things like the terraces of the guesthouses. Until then, however, it would be an unreasonable risk, or I do not know the epidemiologist in Slovenia who will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u20	Thank you. I hope that the Government will consider these measures in order to meet the professional criteria, which are also often contradictory and change from day to day. I think it would be nice for the government to consider abandoning such a sharp system of closure. However, since my question is more of an initiative than a question, I do not need an additional debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u21	Then next time I ask you not to use the time for a procedural proposal. The next question will be asked by Marjan Sarec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. On 25 May 2020, you replied to the oral question, saying: "If the epidemic occurs in a second wave in the same or worse scale as it was in the spring, then we can speculate now on what measures will have to be taken and what will be the new fiscal normality in Slovenia and Europe. But we are working to prevent this from happening." Well, this happened, the second wave was significantly worse than the first wave, although it is also necessary to be careful with these waves of yours, because we do not know if it is one wave together or more different, because given the confusion of the measures it is difficult to know, but however, the question is: Does the government plan for future cuts in human income, or so - called savings? And if so, when?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u24	We're not planning this, we're not planning any cuts. We're planning a recovery last year. We now have data on last year's gross domestic product movement, on the number of unemployed and other macroeconomic indicators, so we can say that in 2020, the macroeconomic year ended significantly better in Slovenia than the May forecast and significantly better than the European Commission's forecast at the same time. In Slovenia, at the time, a decline was forecasted, I think, 7.1% of gross domestic product. A few days ago, the official data of the Statistical Office was published that the decline was 5.5%, which is said to have been better for about 20% than the European Commission had predicted, despite the severe second wave. By the way, the severe second wave had basically all those countries that came through better in the first wave, even because the population didn't believe that the epidemic could be so severe because we didn't experience it on our own, but we only saw it on television screens from other countries. Even better information, as regards the assessment of government measures to mitigate the situation, is the data on the movement of unemployment in last year. Unemployment increased by 1% in 2020 despite the epidemic. Because it was said earlier that there is nothing wrong with numbers and that we now have 20,000 unemployed. We don't have 20,000 unemployed, and in January unemployment rose because every year, even without an epidemic, seasonal, and in February it fell. At present, the unemployed are below 90,000, significantly below 90,000, and largely due to the measures proposed by the Government and the National Assembly has adopted to keep jobs. As a result, we expect that recovery will be faster, as with the end of the epidemic, those who have not yet been able to perform certain activities will also be able to resume these activities. If we look at the structure of the falls or the movement in individual activities, Slovenia had the fastest growth of construction in Europe last year. By 18%, construction activity had grown because something had been built. That doesn't mean we were so good, which means you didn't build much in the last few years because he went to the Metelkova and to the Rog. As a result, the investment activity was poor. Construction increased by 18% last year. We have fallen in tourism and hospitality, and this has mainly generated this real fall in gross domestic product of 5.5%. But we are counting, regardless of the fact that there is certainly a third wave of the epidemic ahead of us, there is no question whether it will or not, because it will be, the question is how bad it will be, but we are counting on this year to make up for this fall from last year. It is said that we will be better than what has been foretold, especially because, to a large extent, we have maintained the economy. Exports, which are not Achilles' fifth, but the engine, Slovenia's economic growth, fell minimally last year because the economy responded effectively to the changed situation. So the image is not black and white and is better than the forecast.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Comrade Sarec, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u26	The independent organ of the world, which luckily cannot be replaced overnight, says so. Slovenia is one of the EU countries with an average decline in economic activity, and the state of public finances has deteriorated in the crisis more than on average in EU countries. It points out, inter alia, that the large-scale measures taken due to the epidemic have led to a significant increase in the country's expenditure, after the increase in public finances expenditure, Slovenia is well above the average of the European Union. The public debt increased by almost 13% last year, to 78.5%, and we reduced it to 65.6% of GDP in 2019. The problem is a trend where, following an increase in debt in the crisis, Slovenia ranks as the top third of the EU Member States, because there is not much expenditure associated with the epidemic as well. As far as unemployment is concerned, January 2021 was higher by 14.6% compared to January 2020, 11 thousand 600 people. The jump is particularly with young people, according to the Fiscal World. I believe that he is independent, because he has seen a lot of things in a significantly better budget picture, and you have even given us a constitutional assessment of the balance. So it is true that these numbers are not points, I only hope that your statement that you do not plan cuts and savings is true, but we know that interest rates are also increasing and that we are in charge of taking advantage of a rather bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u27	Thank you very much. President of the Government, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u28	Apparently, the term "weak" has different views, because all the rating agencies that measured Slovenia's ratings last year, and all measured it because we are not only members of the European Union, we are also members of the European Monetary Union and members of the OECD, Slovenia's credit ratings have been assessed as good and stable or have increased them. Slovenia issued last year for the first time in history a 60-year bond and in history we also issued a negative interest rate bond. Show me someone who's got cheaper money on the market so far in the history of this country. Comparing January’s unemployment data is only possible, but it is misleading. I can compare it, too. In December 2020, unemployment was lower than in December 2019 when you were in government and there was no epidemic. But that information doesn't say anything, because it's just seasonal, month-to-month. The information that the Fiscal Council also has is official, because we all have the same data from the same statistical office, which tells us how we went last year, is that unemployment increased by 1% in 2020. This year we will do everything we can to reduce the number of people working in Slovenia and to increase the number of people working in Slovenia. This is what we are working towards, and this is what the exit strategy is intended to do. By trying to create jobs with high added value, not just jobs, where we will talk about guaranteed minimum wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Comrade Sarec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u30	Thank you. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, of course, I demand that the National Assembly hold a debate on the importance of this topic, because I am very concerned about these differences in numbers. You're saying 1%, the Fiscal Council is 14,6%, so the difference is pretty big. Then you say credit ratings. You have also inherited credit ratings from the previous government because Minister Bertonzel has left you with a good budget situation. We know that for 50 million at the time, we had to make a deal. So you have a fundamentally different picture. Of course it's an epidemic, of course it is, but it's your spending or indebtedness now that's a lot of concern. Not just the fiscal world, but us. The budget deficit according to January data is already EUR 434 million, according to temporary data. So one day this money, which you are boasting about giving to people – you say, we gave you that, we gave you that, we gave you that third – this money will have to be returned one day. That's the money that comes from the debt. And do not be comforted by interest rates because Slovenia is in the upper half of the debt. Although you say how bad the past governments have been, you have received a very good financial picture. It's already got to be admitted. Finally, at the beginning of your government, you knew everything that we didn't do, how we should do, and we expected you to oh and at all, and that you would know how to solve things, and now we see that you're in charge of the maximum state and you will. Of course, someone else will be returning, probably our grandkids. It is therefore important that we also discuss this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March, in the framework of the votes. The last one will ask the Prime Minister the question of Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Honourable President of the Government. It has been going on for the second year since the whole world, not just Slovenia, has been dealing with the coronary pandemic. Practically, Your Honor, we've gone into another reality overnight, at some other time, because our lives have changed. Slovenia was not only hit by the epidemic at the time, but also by the political crisis. The government of Marjan Šarc has only collapsed and the fact is that responsible policy has been put together by the parties who have taken a responsible approach to this. And you had to work right away. I remember that the first session was held the night the government was appointed. The fact is, at that time, Deputy Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek said that they had done nothing in the field of health. Of course, today, part of the policy is just for calculating and collecting points cheaply, talking about the number of dead, talking about measures that are supposed to be bad, although they are intended for people and the economy, talking about debt, although this money is for citizens and citizens and especially for the economy to remain in some condition, which is still important for the future. We are pleased to have a vaccine on the market in less than a year. Here goes a really big thank you to science and see how important it is for us to continue working together on this. I would like to go through the crisis together, in cooperation, but unfortunately more than cooperation we see throwing pollen under our feet. Anyway, President, I have a question for you: In fact, how do you assess, from the beginning until now, especially in the light of the vaccines so far, the conflict between Slovenia and the epidemic? Are you planning any other measures in relation to the whole situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u34	Thank you so much for asking. Well, first of all, let me say to what has been said, that God really help the country, because there can be a man at the head of the government who can't tell what a month-month comparison is, and what a year-a-year comparison is when it comes to unemployment. Look, it's the fourth grade of elementary school. As far as action is concerned, we are planning, in addition to what is foreseen for the release and exacerbation light, given the evolution of the epidemiological situation, also the additional assessment, and this is now being carried out by the profession, by Wednesday, and possible alternatives to some measures, given that in fact some activities are further affected by the length or where other damage occurs. One of these other categories is, say, high school. In fact, students of the first, second, and third years have not been physically in school for months. Here the profession now checks whether it is possible to reduce contacts elsewhere, so that we can also, at least in the orange phase, at least partially, perhaps alternately, after days or weeks, for students of the first, second and third years of secondary school as well. This is one of the things that waits on the basis of proposals that will be on the table, on a government decision Wednesday or Thursday. The next such dilemma, which is ahead of all of us, which is not yet due tomorrow, is the possible rapid spread of new versions of the virus in Slovenia in the coming weeks. According to the data we have, there are currently more and more dangerous versions of the virus in Slovenia, and nowhere is it said that, given the high numbers we have at all, we will not be witnessing the situation in some other European countries at this time or as it has already been. Here the dilemma is set, or gradually, given the anticipated light and dynamics, to reduce risky contacts or for a short time to actually stop public life as it has happened in the UK, as it has been happening since today in the Czech Republic, as it will be done in at least three or four European Union countries in the coming weeks, according to the data I have heard in the last video session of the European Council. It's a dilemma. It's a dilemma. This is not only an expert decision, it is also a political decision, given that it is a serious aggravation, but for a short time. The alternative is longer restrictive measures that maintain the capacity of the healthcare system at the edge of the capacity. At present, the capacity situation is more favourable or significantly better than it has been in the past, while in the number of infections, we are probably closer to red than the orange phase, and in terms of capacity in the health system, we are closer to yellow than the orange phase. Perhaps even one of the countries in the European Union will be able to help with these capacities because they are asking for help over the next two weeks. But the situation can change later. And if this indicator is also unfavourable, then it will be necessary to decide whether to tighten the measures for a short period of time or to catch the balance on the edge of the capacity of our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Colleague Gibert, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Only supplement if you can, Prime Minister. Look, we hear a lot of times that this government is facing an epidemic inappropriately. In fact, we see that those who criticize, do not talk about criticism, talk about criticism, do not really know what they want. On the one hand, they would release measures, on the other hand, they say that the measures are too bad, on the one hand they want to open, on the other hand they talk about the number of dead. So a policy that doesn't participate doesn't really know what it wants. President, in the light of the impact of the epidemic, because we have already adopted eight PKP packages and because I know that there are nine packages in preparation, I am curious: What, in particular, can we do to keep the economy stable so that we can have it ready for time after the epidemic? Can you provide data on how many people have actually helped because we are constantly listening to the problem of debt, even though this time the Slovenian government is in charge of people? Please, if you have anything to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u37	Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Slovenia, when it comes to measures, shares the fate of those countries that we were good at in the first wave. Many people simply did not feel the epidemic at the time, many thought that the measures were excessive, as the number of dead was very low. On this basis, a political philosophy developed, which in some countries has also been exploited by the opposition in Slovenia and has been opposed to these measures, which we were forced to introduce at the beginning of the second wave. And the measures did not work in the same way as in the first wave because they were not taken seriously and were deliberately encouraged to break. I can quote here a lot of statements from my colleagues and colleagues in this National Assembly, but it just doesn't make sense. The fact is, the virus has no political colour. The virus is spreading according to its laws, but you admit it or you don't admit it. That's not what the virus wants. So the cost of stopping the virus, I'll say, is too disproportionate to the engagement of the majority. The larger the majority involved in stopping, the lower the price, the smaller the measures can be. Mr Jelinčič previously cited the release of measures in some countries, such as certain regions in Italy or Croatia and so on. You don't have to go to Italy, it's enough to watch TV recordings from Kopra, Piran or Italian cities and count how many people wear masks there and how many people wear masks with us. The price paid by the Italians in the first wave was severe and they took it seriously. However, we still have a little joke and certain things can be released and carried out if people who are involved in these services and provide them take it seriously and follow these measures. But if you can see at first sight that this is not happening, look at the crowd at the lower station of the bloodsucker cable on Saturday as if there were no epidemics, as if there were no measures. And again, those who are not guilty and who stick to the measures will pay the price. In fact, there would be a need for greater political unity here, but part of the Slovenian policy of an epidemic uses to fight for power and the result is obvious.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Restoršek will answer the question of Suzanne Lepi Šimenka regarding plans for the development of border problem areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u40	Honourable Member Susana Lepi Šimenko, Honourable National Assembly, Honourable President, thank you for the question. The law on promoting coherent regional development defines the problems of areas as areas where special attention is needed in the development context. The area’s cross-border problems are identified as priority areas for all development policies, and this means that the Ministry and other incentives for the preparation of the incentive programmes are allocated to projects and to investors from these areas, or to projects from those areas, we allocate additional points in the selection process under the call for proposals. We are paying special attention to these areas at the Ministry and we are implementing a series of measures, which I have already mentioned here several times. A four-year programme of development incentives, endorsed by the Government, is being prepared to harmonise and focus sectoral policies on border areas in line with the Regulation on the implementation of endogenous regional policy measures. The programme shall be prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in cooperation with the ministries and development actors at regional level. The programme of development incentives for border problems in the 2021-2024 area is in preparation. The activities are carried out on an interdependent basis, while at these three different levels where we carry out, for the first time, a review of the analysis and coordination of typology and the proposals for measures proposed by the expert group, which is preparing a targeted research programme, inter-sectorally coordinated development promotion in border areas; secondly, the review of possible MGRT actions in border areas will be comparable to those carried out in high unemployment problem areas, but the programme measures will also be based on the findings of the above-mentioned section; thirdly, coordination on the proposals for action with the development regions covering the problem areas and with the ministries. The aim is to set out a set of feasible measures and projects that have a real basis for funding and implementation and projects that will target development challenges within border areas. In order to successfully address the challenges of border problem areas, action by other sources or their combination is also crucial, which is what we now want to coordinate and plan properly in the preparation of the programme. In principle, our ministry will continue to implement similar measures as it has already introduced and will focus on promoting economic activity and investment, maintaining and creating jobs, creating an enabling business environment for businesses, including setting up and managing business zones, activities to attract strategic investments in border areas, promoting measures to increase substantive and energy efficiency. The final phase is the preparation of the already mentioned targeted research programme. We will continue to work intensively with the development regions and the competent ministries. The development incentives programme will also propose comprehensive measures to address border problems in areas, taking account of differences within border areas. In line with the current plan, the programme will be prepared in the first half of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Colleague Pretty Chimenka, would you like a refill? No, no, no. Let's move on. The Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojs, will answer the question of Primož Siter on the groundless insistence on professionally unconfirmed measures to limit the movement of individuals and individuals and on the procedurally unjustified sanctioning of citizens and citizens by the police and the Ministry of the Interior. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u42	Dear Mr. Siter! First, let me say that the Government has issued all its actions or all its decisions on two assumptions. One was the expert opinion of the expert commission, and the other was the recommendations made by either the European Commission or the other institutions responsible for the resolution or control of the covida epidemic at European level. One of the things that is undoubtedly clear, and it is not really necessary to prove, is the opinion of the profession, that, while there is no vaccine, we know that unless there is a vaccine, switching contacts or preventing contacts is the only and, in fact, the most logical measure to prevent the spread of this virus. All the decisions we have taken from my field are either a restriction on movement or a restriction on those who can enter our country at the external and internal borders of the EU are derived from this assumption. I believe, I don't believe, because it's actually obvious that your client is one of those parties that's actually broken these things all the time, if you don't need to limit it. You have repeatedly said that it is also unnecessary to limit movement during nighttime, in fact not to reflect the fact that this would help anything, but in fact it is quite clear that this is not empirically demonstrated in terms of counting those who have become sick or have not become sick, in fact, all European countries, but not just European countries, have introduced such measures that have to the greatest extent prevented association or possible contacts. In terms of the night-time limitation, it is clear that this has prevented a multitude of private meetings, that we have also limited this, in addition to the decisions that have been taken, in terms of closing restaurants, restaurants and similar matters. However, with regard to the very transition of national borders or the restriction of movements within regions, the most exemplaric indication of what can be done or what can happen if some parties, of course yours, and journalists promote that essentially restrictions on movement or association are unnecessary. This is what happened in the coastal-Kraška region. As you know, the most yellow, if I call it, or the most perspective, is now almost on the blacklist as a result of what was said there about masks and that movement does not need to be restricted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, you're requesting a follow-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Hello, Minister, and thank you for this introductory discreditation. Good morning to everyone else, too. I'm glad we took our gloves off, so will I without the cellophane. We are talking about the measures that Janez Janša is taking with you at the head of the abuse to prevent people from gathering in protest. That's it. That's what we all understand. This was also confirmed by Tomaž Pecjak, the first man of the police at a recent press conference. It is a selective choice of measures, Minister, a politically motivated choice of measures. On the one hand, we have production halls and crowded offices of people with bosses that no one controls. On the other hand, we have a curfew to prevent some nocturnal associations that are not actually there. My question is: Is it checked in the halls that the police are also active in production halls? Do they sanction bosses who do not provide workers with a safe working environment and suffer a total of 500, 000 or whatever? This is a key issue here because the profession confirms that the most infections happen right in the workplace. Not outside, not in the air, not in the evening, but in the workplace. Additional question: How do you sanction employers who send unprotected workers to jobs? Is the police there as conscientious as they are with the walkers? Which of the experts has confirmed that the infections, according to your statements, are spreading most outside, among the protestors the most, given that the most protestors have been sanctioned? If this is an expert opinion, it comes from the heading of that expert commission from which epidemiologists, the Community of Social Institutions and other professional public have traditionally emerged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Next up, respectable Mr. Siter, three demancies. Mr. Tomaž Pecjak is not the first man in the police force. He's the deputy director. The other thing is, I don't know where you get the data to be most punished or warned in protest. I don't have that information. I can read your information. Two thousand 634 violations, of which a thousand 318 fines and a thousand 316 warnings have been issued, have been found due to the illegal passage between statistical regions. Now I seriously doubt they were protestors. The illegal passage between the municipalities resulted in 6,000,807 violations, 3,000, 937 fines, and 2 thousand,870 warnings. There aren't so many protestors in the whole country. In view of the non-compliance with the 21-6 p.m. movement limit, 6 thousand 574 violations, 3 thousand 224 fines and 3 thousand 350 warnings were found. You said yourself that your protestors don't protest after 9:00. So it's clear that they weren't protestors. As a result of the forbidden gathering of people, and this may be partly the protestors, thousands of 697 violations, of which only 583 fines and a thousand 114 warnings have been made. The numbers are very demeaning to you. However, the organisation or participation of the event, namely protests, meetings, weddings and so on, has resulted in 353 violations, of which 309 fines have been imposed and 44 warnings issued. Let me touch what you said at the end, but it's a test, so you kind of said, how many times have the police checked the production halls or employers? Now obviously, I don't want to be underestimating, but obviously we don't understand each other or somehow we don't know or understand what public space really is. The police have the authority to warn or sanction people only on public surfaces. A decree that prohibits movement and assembly is a decree that prohibits it on public surfaces, markets, cities, I don't know where else, in stores, for example. The manufacturing hall of the XY owner is not public space. I must also say that in these ten or twelve months, what is going on, the police only gained the power in last November to partially monitor the implementation of the Law on Infectious Diseases. Before that, she could only punish herself for a violation of public order and peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Rajko Muršič, an anthropologist, wrote days ago that the State apparatus forcibles and controls people to suspend the abolition of civil liberties and rights, while at the same time preventing in the name of the economy any effective measures in the short term that could eliminate the virus in the medium term. It is absurd that people suffer at work together during the day, but at night they lock themselves in their homes if they even have them. Of course, I will, Madam President, call on the National Assembly to hold a broader debate on this issue, because statistics, epidemiological statistics, Minister Hojs, have shown that the government is incapable of curbing the epidemic and offering solutions that would actually be good for people who would allow at least about the normal course of life and would not suffer from some state of police state. The government is incapacitated, I'm sorry, it hurts fast, instead of solving the crisis, beating up protestors, quiet criticism, deliberately quieting criticism. Today, for example, a picture of a family sitting on a walkway surrounded by five armed police officers and a police dog came to my attention. It's a condition. I haven't seen this in 41 years. It was on the coast. I haven't seen this in 41 years, and I've lived part of my life in a totalitarian country. Or punishing high school kids in Maribor because they were out. It's not normal, and it's not an epidemic, Minister, it's a police state, it's intimidation, it's the establishment of a strong arm of power. And these are, hand to heart, wet dreams of some guys who like to play with guns, and we all have to tolerate it. That won't solve the epidemic. But in the final stages of the epidemic with its state of emergency, the government of Janez Janša fits. This is most evident in finding an answer to what has happened to the Slovenian police since the Ministry of the Interior led Aleš Hojs. It all shows that, and this is good news, the National Assembly will set up a commission that will take this communication between the Ministry of the Interior and the police under control, to verify how the police's politics makes such nonsense. I call on the National Assembly to hold a broader debate on this subject, police officers and police officers, those who still have some sense in this race to connect and oppose it, to put down helmets and badges and put themselves on the side of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. The question will be asked by Aljaž Kovacič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, Minister, I'm going to ask you about the law on scientific research. The preparation of this law has been going on for several years. Even in the List of Marjan Šarc we have been very committed to its preparation, and I myself have personally participated in this matter when we led the coalition, especially because the situation as it is today is very unfair for young researchers who somehow cannot come along so that they can participate equally in these projects. Your government, too, your ministry has continued to prepare this law, but today we are wondering where this law is. Why are we asking that? Because we're getting a lot of calls about things stopping. Finally, the director of the SAZU Research Centre said, quote: "It would be extremely irresponsible if after three and a half years of systematic and excruciating preparation of the law now everything was flushed out." Thus, this call for help is more than obvious, and we are concerned that the people who prepared this law, such as your former secretary of state and also the former director of the Higher Education Directorate, have been replaced on your proposal, by the Government. According to my information, a working group has been set up to prepare this law and has actually led it to its conclusion, saying that the law should be tabled. By the time it was almost concluded, however, different lobbies had come forward if I could call them that, especially because the law clearly stated who would be able to obtain the project, the number of employees that a group should have and its success in European calls. I want to know: After these pressures, have you really set up an informal group at the Ministry that advocates that funding change in a way that is not what you have prepared?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, honourable President, honourable Member Kovacic, other Members and Members of Parliament! Let me calm you down in the beginning, none of the last things you said was true. The Law on Research and Innovation is, as you said at the outset, a very important new law that our country needs more than blood. The start of its preparation is now under the mandate of the SMC Government, 2014-2018. That is when we started this process, under the central coordination of the current State Secretary, who is today the Director of the Directorate for Science and this process has been moving forward in this operational sense all the time. What is crucial, both from a developmental point of view, for the scientific and economic sphere alone and for universities, on the one hand, and of course also for responsible political support, is to prepare a law that will be modern and will allow for the pressure of the best possible scientific and research activities at this time both for our country and for its involvement in international space. These are, in fact, the key criteria and also the objectives pursued by the proposal for a law in cooperation with the close interrelationship of both university work and research institutes as well as the economy. As it is said, adequate financial support for the entire research area is also envisaged in this way. This means funding of 1% of the gross social product by 2028, which means an estimated growth of between 40 million and 50 million per year. Let me say that we have already taken the first step in this direction by cutting the budget money for science for 2021, which I believe you know is the highest so far in public finance. We are also successful in drawing on European money. It is also one of the main criteria of the proposal for a law that is a stable funding of research age since 2022. At that time, we also expect this new law to enter into force on condition that it receives the final green light right in the National Assembly with your votes. We are equating the conditions for the operation of all the core institutions involved, both research and university according to their status. Here we are also correcting certain injustices or other inadequacies arising from the existing system in relation between research institutes and higher education institutions as well as within them, in view of their different kinds, as you mentioned. In short, in relation to public or private, with concessions and clean private institutions and institutions. All must have the same initial opportunities to give the best possible knowledge and research results through their activities. Then there is this third role of integration and integration with the economy. We also provide different stimulating conditions for the award of the best researchers and researchers, that they also have, say, a more attractive condition or an opportunity to pass on their knowledge in our space rather than to go abroad, and vice versa, to bring interested foreigners into our research space. As for the timelines and the process itself, we are just before the introduction of a bill coordinated, with all stakeholders, to deal with the government. The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Research Activities must give some last words, so that I expect you to receive it very soon also for consideration in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacic, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u54	Thank you again for your word, President. I asked you about this informal group precisely for reasons that you also gave in your response to these changes or to the levelling of conditions. We all agree that the conditions must be the same for all, but according to the available data, some individuals would find it difficult to meet the new conditions, particularly those of the key ones I have talked about, regarding the number of researchers employed and the success of European projects. Most likely, though, you, as a minister, argue that when someone gets the money, that they will be able to carry out a matter of quality, but not that a college that doesn't have one regular employee in its college gets as much money as someone who, for example, has 30 employees. Then I wonder if one thing of equal quality can be done. The calls and indeed the main concern about these changes and the pressures that were to take place were regarding the conditions. Since you denied the existence of this informal group, I ask you: Can you also deny that names such as Matthew Avbelj, Borut Rončević, Matej Makarovič, Dušan Lesjak and Barbara Toplek Perovič do not participate in the preparation of this law because, according to our information we have received and calls, these should be the members of this informal group in which they advocate to amend the original law?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I repeat, there is no informal group. This is too serious a process to take such approaches. Even under my guidance, we will never use such approaches. What is important, however, is that all involved in the research process are provided with equal conditions and opportunities to give the most of their knowledge into the work they are doing. But we are talking to all those who want to talk and want to pass on their solutions, our assessments, our views that we will eventually adopt a law that will be most transparent, fairest and will address all common, best interests for public good, which is called knowledge in this country, and I hope that we do not have to explain that we want it and that everyone who comes with such wishes has an absolutely open door and must have it. But this is our approach — dialogue, cooperation, to listen to each other, to find the best possible solutions in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u58	I certainly support the fact that you talk in the widest possible circle and that you hear as many ideas as you can. But there is a problem that you listen to most of the time. That is why I propose, Madam President, that a debate be held at one of the next meetings on the Minister's response, because we already have a very unpleasant experience with one such matter, when you have listened to many stakeholders, as you yourself said. It's about accreditation of universities. In view of the fact that you were obviously listening to those cases that you should not have heard, thank God, the Constitutional Court was finally called upon to review constitutionality and the Constitutional Court held the case. We do not think that we should allow ourselves again to have the Constitutional Court decide whether or not there have been any further violations. Yeah, we're all up for public service, public education. I hope that the law that you, as your ministry, will also seek to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojsa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, chairman. How nice to meet you all! Today, much has already been said about the epidemic and the covid's actions and effectiveness. However, because measures change in view of the situation both within our country and beyond the borders of our country, and then we encounter a problem when coordination in border areas is needed to cross from one side to the other. I met this problem myself because I come from the New York City congregation. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Aleš Hojs for immediately listening to us and seeing our distress, the hardship of people living along the border, and those crossing the border, either because of the cultivation of the land, were done in the fields, like those who are attending the study and educational process, namely students and students, and of course those who are migrant workers, and those who are transiting from one congregation to another. We know that the municipality of Brda has a much longer route on the Slovenian side than the route through Italian territory is said on the Italian side. Given that the measures have also begun to be released on the Italian side and there are open external cafes and shops and that visitors can be registered on the lists, this is mainly by the Italian State to register with the Health Care Institute in Gorica and to submit a statement and pass a negative test, I am interested in: Is it also possible to predict in the future that this way we could cross the border without a negative test, so that we could enroll in the list and make only a statement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, it must be said that all the restrictions at our internal borders, namely at the borders between Italy, Austria and Hungary, were largely coordinated with neighbouring countries, and in particular followed those of the Council and the European Commission itself, which it had given in the past. As you know, these restrictions were relatively strict, but at the same time they allowed there between 10 and 14, depending on the stage, the exception. As the honourable Member said, during these exceptions a special emphasis was given to the two-owners, those who in fact went to school on one side or the other, when schools were open, to the care of relatives, given that we are talking about a belt that is somehow also physically very closely connected on one side of the country. There were several other exceptions that were only general in Europe, from transit to police representatives, ambulances and so on. We have indeed, as the lady has said, followed to a large extent those desires that could be realised. In particular, it was an interesting request, a desire where we also made an exception to crossing our daily migrants across the Italian border, to get out of Slovenia somewhere in Brda and rejoined Slovenia somewhere in Goriška, without any special requirements, without tests, to shorten their journey to Slovenian territory for quite a long time. Unfortunately, I must say that we have been in the last week, we have also been able to monitor this in the daily media, witnessing to a whole range of so-called hikers coming or coming back from exotic countries. Here it was specifically mentioned in the last week of Zanzibar, a country that somehow constantly denies the covida virus, where even the highest authorities spoke of it not being there. However, it is there that this South African virus is most common, which apparently spreads much faster than everyone else, and especially, it appears, is also very limited in its effectiveness for this strain. All European countries, including Slovenia, will probably be forced to tighten the regime at our borders in the coming days. In the expert committee of epidemiologists and physicians, they tend to close these checkpoints at European internal borders much more strictly, and it is likely that this week will be followed by considerable tightening. I personally do not believe that we could release things, although this life on the one hand and on the other side of the Slovenian-Italian borders is very lively and interconnected, but it will be necessary to make a decision in this direction that we will have to reintroduce checkpoints in order to tackle such cases. At least I think so. Otherwise, the government will decide. It will be necessary to redefine which exceptions can travel in one direction or another without tests. It is likely that these day migrants or weekly migrants, or those who go to school on the one hand or on the other, will also need to be tested for at least 7 days, as we are now doing for those who teach at our school or for those who go skiing or who maintain order on the ski slopes. Personally, I don't believe there could be any of these relaxations. However, we will certainly try to make the matter so bearable as possible that it will not affect both citizens or our citizens at the border and the two-owners as much as possible. However, to do so is also due to the irresponsibility of some. We have the last days of the case when people come back from Austria, for example, and there the borders do not say that they were with their aunt in Austria and do not say that they came to Vienna Airport from Zanzibar. So they're just lying, or if I say, maybe it's an ugly expression, they're not telling the whole truth because they're actually coming from Austria, but they were somewhere else before. This simply cannot be plagued by any more strict control, with some more strict regime. Obviously, we are a nation that does not only understand the recommendations, but, as some say, we need very strict supervision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Colleague Zavadlav Ears, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would just like to thank you once again for a really quick response to the coalition Members on this issue that we have highlighted, as well as all the border mayors who responded immediately. At the same time, however, I would call for the possibility that those living in the border band could be treated differently and that if only a soft approach could be taken, if I can put it that way, despite the fact that people do not actually respect enough measures and that is why the virus is spreading so quickly. Indeed, once again, I appeal to the Minister to see us somehow in these actions. We will try to act responsibly, as we have already demonstrated in Goriška that the measures have been respected and the monitoring of the movement has also been at a sufficiently high level. Therefore, you might really consider that at least these groups, such as students and students of two-owners, would be slightly exempt from stricter measures. Now we know that work will begin in the fields and there will be so many more crossings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I didn't see any demands here to complete the response. Comrade Primož Siter will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities concluded before a recent invitation to tender for the construction of the homes of the elderly. The granting of concessions to private companies is problematic, since the State thereby leaves the market for the elderly, and services in these homes have proved more expensive and consequently more difficult to access, as confirmed in its audit before the recent Court of Auditors. Moreover, it is also problematic to conclude that more than half of the selected investors are from a certified list of concession recipients for foreign multinational companies. I therefore ask the Minister the following questions in this regard: Why does the Ministry, instead of providing funds to build public homes for the elderly, leave the market to care and care? Why did the Ministry choose more than half of the foreign investors among the candidates? Will the operators selected on this call, in any event, discourage planned construction or expansion of existing public homes? Are there congregations where public homes can be built or distributed and this invitation to tender will not be made available? If so, what congregations are involved, and why has the construction of public homes been replaced by more expensive, private ones? I also ask the Minister a general strategic question: In what way will the ministry ever strengthen the network of public homes for the elderly? And a very specific question when we talk about expanding and strengthening the network: Why has the Ministry, despite promises, not yet ensured the continuation of the construction of houses in Vrtojba and Osilnica and their inclusion in the network of public homes for the elderly? Where did these two important and promised projects get stuck? These are the questions I am referring to the Minister, Mr President-respected. I also ask him to reply to me in writing within the time limit set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Lydia Divac Mirnik will ask the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Nice greetings, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been consciously fighting the battle against the State for months. In her name, of course, UKOM or its Director, Mr Urbania, seems to me to be writing, sir. Of course, it violates legislation, including PKP 7, which has clearly established that in 2021 the STA has secured funding on the basis of the adopted business plan of the STA, whether or not it has concluded a contract with the founder. The government's clear ambition to exhaust, weaken and subjugate the STA is, of course, behind such behaviour, a clear ambition of the Prime Minister, according to the fact that the STA is fully accounted for. Well, there's been another historic moment today. After 29 years, cooperation between the STA and the government administration was suspended. Shame on you! Shame on you! Slovenia is in an interesting situation because of the government, I would say. We will be chairing the EU Council in June, which is not only a major political challenge but also a comprehensive media project. In the previous 2008 presidency, led by the same Prime Minister, RTV and STA justified their role and carried out their work at a high professional level. At least that's what the same gentlemen who say differently today said at the time. I have already asked the question myself in December 2020 and asked whether the government intends to exclude the STA and RTV from the Presidency. But you won't believe it, even though after 30 days I should have an answer, I don't have an answer yet. Why? That is why, of course, I am interested in how and in how the Presidency of the EU Council will take place in the media. This is actually a very big stranger today. In view of all the wars that the Prime Minister is going through with both Slovenian and foreign media and journalists, it will obviously be very varied. My three questions in the first part are: First time. Mr. Minister, do you really think the presidency doesn't deserve independent and professional reporting? Another time. Do you think that STA and RTV should cover the media part of the EU Council Presidency, as was the case during your first presidency of 2008? And the third time. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia insists on excluding STA and RTV from the media part of the EU Council Presidency, what media will carry out these tasks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u70	In view of how the question was raised to the Minister, what I received was a very general question on the role of the press agency in the Slovenian media space in the future and on the strategic documents for the development of the media in Slovenia. In fact, you are now asking in this sense, but much more precisely. And it would be good if we asked more precisely how to respond, but I understand your intentions, which are already expressed in reading, so that you mix different levels and talk about the Prime Minister and their evil intentions. You're saying we should be ashamed. Are you talking about me, ma'am, that we should be ashamed? Because then I'll tell you if you're talking about me. If Mr President will allow me, of course, because [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u71	I'm asking you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u72	But that's not how it works. [[…]] I am answering the question, I am answering the question very specifically. Very specific. How will the Presidency take place in relation to the STA or the RTV? Yes, very simple, it will take place according to the rules and with all the care that this government will give to this Presidency. STA and RTV will cover this because at least this is their duty and also their duty to the press in general. Or maybe not. In order for STA and RTV to be excluded, I must say that for the first time I have heard this and that this is actually some conclusion that is wrong and does not correspond to any truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Comrade Divac Mirnik, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Interesting, Mr. Secretary, what you said to me. You're gonna burn me! That's right, you guys. SO and RTV will cover this because it's their duty, but it can't. That's what you said. With all that you have not yet managed to submit to the STA, we read that you are establishing your so-called competitive STA, which you have named as the National Press Agency. The founders of this huge media project write that this is a matter of, quote: "The media project, which for a long-term purpose has aimed not only to replace the hijacked STA, but to become a national news agency of global dimensions." End of story. In fact, it's about setting up some sort of para-state media project. That is why I am very specifically interested in Mr Minister, but I am not interfering with any of the powers. First time. How do you intend to ensure media coverage during the presidency, because you are responsible? Will your client trumpets and these newly formed parastatal trumpets do this instead of STA and RTV? Another time. How do you see the role of STA in view of the once general consensus in society — in view of how we should be and what we have agreed 30 years ago — today? So how do you see this role? Third time. Can we even expect that, when adopting a national programme for culture and strategic documents for media development, we can clearly record that the state guarantees the autonomy of the activities of the State and stable sources of funding for public service delivery, and that the STA and RTV are the ones that play a bearable role in providing information in the public interest? What have you done for what's going on with the U.S.A.? Did you protect her existence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u76	The project that the Member State is talking about, I don't know about, so I don't feel responsible at all. I don't know anything about that. The Ministry of Culture is responsible for the law on STA. However, with regard to the implementation of financing and supervision, it does not, of course, have any specific powers, either by law or by any contract, if any. The presidency, as I said, will run as it is. In view of what I said earlier, whether it will cover the STA or not, I said because I am used in this sense, and there are many examples of this and many articles, that these two organizations do not cover many things, which I think should be, given that the public service of the U.S. must carry out, as stated in the law, the public service of the permanent, comprehensive, accurate, objective, objective provision of information on events in the Republic of Slovenia and the world for public purposes in the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenians worldwide, Slovenian minority neighbouring countries in the Slovenian language, and on developments in the Republic of Slovenia for media and the public in the Republic of Slovenia and outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the English language in accordance with this law, the act establishing the STA and the law governing the field of the media. What is the public service of STA, I can read for a long time. It also has market activities. The problem is probably also, as far as we can see in the implementation of the law itself, that these two public and market services would somehow be intertwined, and that some things are not clear. As you know, we have already prepared a special law on STA last summer, and I hope that it will come to an end and that these things will be regulated as it is necessary for STA to be an independent, transparent organisation that will actually benefit the entire public with the best information and work that this organisation can overcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Colleague Divac Mirnik, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u78	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we discuss this subject in the National Assembly. Why? This is too important a topic, both the STA and the Presidency of the EU Council and this media coverage, and who will actually join this project. Given that the government obviously does not want to answer my question, today I am counting on all those Members who are aware of the importance of independent media who are aware of the transparent media, who are aware that the debate in the National Assembly is the one that can contribute to change, so somehow I am also appealing to those Members who feel that something is wrong, that some things are changing at light speed in this country, to the worst of all, to support this debate. Why? Because, as Mr. Minister correctly reads, the STA Act says that the STA performs a public service of continuous, comprehensive, accurate and objective provision of information on events in the Republic of Slovenia and around the world. Her only founder and associate is the Republic of Slovenia, and on her behalf the rights are exercised by the RS Government, whose duty is, as the law says, to quote, “to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of the State and to provide adequate funding for the full and smooth implementation of the public service on the basis of the annual Business Plan of the State”. Everything I've just read, this government is not doing right now. Why isn't he doing this? Like we said many times before, because he wants to submit to the media. He wants to submit those media that don't nod, those media that don't write like they obviously do to the President of the Government, those media that even want to draw attention to things that aren't okay. Everything that this government does with the media, in LMŠ we understand as a threat in the way of “my way or no way”, I have already said this once. And we came into a situation within not even 10 months, in no way variant. This means: We will put an end to what we do, and there will be the real journalists themselves, those who think correctly, those who write correctly, and those who are, of course, willing to write what is pleasing to the high priest, because everything else is unacceptable and we will destroy everything else. We're going this way. I do not want to go this way because I want the independence and transparency of the media space in Slovenia to remain. Therefore, Sire, I respectfully ask that we discuss this at one of the next meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the Minister for Environment and Space mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone! The minister's not with us. Since it's no excuse, I suppose because it went much faster than planned, and that's why it's not there. However, I will ask the question because we are facing a new topic that will soon be on the benches of the National Assembly. Changes in construction legislation have been subject to numerous criticism over the last period by the various stakeholders affected by this law. Their concerns were voiced mainly by architects through their Chamber of Architecture and Space, these proposed changes to construction legislation see as an increased risk for the play of legislation and the exclusion of architects from architectural planning space. However, the law was also misrepresented by the representatives of the Engineering Chamber, who see no point in amending the law further, as the solutions do not fit anyone. One of the main concerns of architects, for example, is that with changes to the Construction Law, design management in the design of buildings and urban projects in addition to architects would be entrusted to engineers of other professions, which has not been the case until now. By adopting such solutions, the following combinations will be impossible so far: to manage design for the acquisition of a building permit, for example, a kindergarten engineer, for example for a school of electrical engineering engineers, for a hospital only a construction engineer, for a home of older people only a geodet, for example a stadium engineer for fire safety, for a residential village as a traffic engineer or for a viadukt as a landscape architect for the tunnel of electrical engineering engineers. In this regard, I am interested in: If the changes in the Construction Law will also entrust the design of buildings and urban projects to the engineers of other professions, what is the point of the requirement for professional and professional regulation? Another point worth highlighting is the intention to end public architecture competitions for public investment, which have so far been compulsory in the construction of public buildings worth more than EUR 2.5 million and construction in sites where the spatial act requires this. Both conditions have so far been valid and provided for a well-thought-out and quality-rated intervention into space by the profession. So far, this area has been defined by the Public Procurement Act, which has been sent to the Interdepartmental Debate. With a new solution, the obligation to tender this competition is transferred to the construction law and is not defined there. I want to know: Does the ILO, which is preparing the construction law, intend to abolish the obligation of public architecture competitions for public contracting authorities? Since I am also an architect with long practice, of course I understand the concerns of architects. But all the warnings at the time of the public debate have made us realize that the solutions exposed are indeed not optimal. I also want to know: Will you, as Minister responsible for this area, listen to the comments below and examine in more detail the warnings expressed by the architects' profession? Is your ministry prepared to reconsider the proposed amendments on the basis of comments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u82	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. Yes, we are ready to talk, to look for solutions, because we have been doing this for several months on all these proposed changes and comments from the architectural chamber. I am – and the coalition contract has also committed itself to certain administrative simplifications and deregulation of this construction area. Your first comment, or first call for reconsideration, went on the subject of an obligation to be the architect for projects where more designers are involved. This is said, regardless of the reference, regardless of the co-ordination capacity, regardless of the ability to coordinate with the investor, the architect must be in the buildings of the design manager. Architects are such and different, good, bad, mostly good, but the fact that someone is a good architect does not mean that he is a good coordinator, that he is a good coordinator of various positions of investors, including the projective bureau, including other designers, to concrete solutions. That is why I am personally committed, and also in the proposal, it is said that the design manager may be a leader when he or she participates in the planning of a building or a specific facility, any of the authorised engineers. I'm talking about one of the authorized engineers involved in the project. Because I think it's crucial for a good project manager to have references, to have knowledge, of course, that he has authority. That's what he says. It's his abilities. It's not his education. And here we come, in fact, across the street with the views of architects, who still want exclusive design management. I believe that this is not in line with the deregulation of the reregulated system in Slovenia and that it is better to have knowledge, experience and references here than the last education. Imagine when you have one building, one skyscraper, which is, say, a staticly very demanding, anti-shocking very demanding object, and is the priori head of design an architect, not like a building engineer, who is static and has good knowledge of earthquake safety. So, we can have one young architect in the projective bureau for the design of a young architect without experience, without any reference, and on the other hand an experienced builder, and it must be because the law says so, the architect’s design manager. I believe that this regulation is excessive, unnecessary and has also done a lot of damage in practice, when architects have also lent their name and brand that formal satisfaction has occurred, and in fact the matter has been very pragmatic. As far as public competitions are concerned, here too is my view that public competitions are necessary, meaningful, but I do not know why they should be prescribed and compulsory. For example, if the state decides to build schools and to conduct an architectural competition for all schools, it can do so. The Ministry of Education may prescribe that they must go through a public tender in the event of public funding or funding from their school budget. But I don't see any need for this to be in any case and generally. So, I don't know, the Ministry of Culture can decide that all cultural objects will be implemented through public competitions, once again, but I don't know why this should be mandatory. But as I said before, this is my opinion, my vision, on this subject, we are ready to talk again and again. Finally, we are aware of the importance of the architectural profession, the architect is important and needed as a designer and as a participant in any design and design of buildings. However, I do not see the need for a certain position of privilege in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I can see from the parable that you used in the skyscraper that you don't understand the basic issues relating to the function of an architect. You see, the static, so the construction engineer, who has to take care of the earthquake safety of the building, is going to do it anyway, and it's not going to be visible because it's going to be hidden in concrete, iron, equipment or steel construction. However, the architect has to make sure that this skyscraper, which will stand in the city for the next 200 years, looks in a certain way, which the construction engineer simply does not have aesthetic levers to determine because he has not been trained for, this is what architects have been trained to do. That's just one answer to that. Secondly, the quality of Slovenian architecture, such as it has so far been, has been based on the transfer of thought and experience from Scandinavia and its pure spirit and philosophy, which is not based on the interest of just the investor, but on the whole city as one organism, which must be better every time, but not always worse. I'm afraid with such a solution, because I can already see where you're leaning, Slovenian architecture, its quality falls into the hands of investors who do not have the design levers, the design culture necessary for the work that the architect understands and can do. I'm sorry about that. We will have to continue to talk about this because this practice, which was a guarantee of exceptional Slovenian architecture, through the competitions now you want to end in any way. But I think if you were a health minister, you'd probably let dentists operate from the stomach down, because I can't pull another parallel, and I'm very sorry about that. You don't have to give me an answer to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u86	Dear Member, I'll give you an answer. Even surgery doesn't just need a surgeon. There is also a need for an anesthetist, and there is also a number of medical staff who assist. I didn't say that no architect was needed when planning and designing buildings, including skyscrapers. It's urgent. It's urgent. But I don't see where the argument is that there has to be a design manager if more designers are involved. This is not convincingly indicated in your supplementary question. Look, I respect the architectural profession, we even sat together both engineering and architectural chambers, looking for variants in order to prescribe the importance of the architectural profession through the composition of the documentation, both to obtain the building permit and beyond. I believe that the mission of architects is extremely important. Especially as far as cities are concerned. However, the honourable Member certainly knows that in the cities of the municipality, local communities also lay down rules in the field of architecture and the appearance of buildings, cabarets and the like, through their implementing acts, both the UNPN and the UN-OPN are at a higher level. So, through a series of hierarchies and also through regulations, what must be an integral part of the project documentation, is the importance of the architectural profession. Once again, I see no reason for him to be the only architect of design when he is involved in the design of the buildings of several authorised experts or engineers, why he cannot be the design manager and, say, his engineering colleague in the field of construction. I do not see and believe that this is, in my opinion, excessive regulation and exclusiveness to a particular professional group. So, I understand you as an architect, that you are fighting and advocating for your fellow residents and their business, but understand me as a minister of this government, that I am obliged to look beyond and take care of the interests of other professions, not least of all investors and also those who will be users of these buildings in the future. Architecture is an important profession, it is not the only one and let it lead the design of the most capable, and not the one who is something after education.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will be no procedural proposal because there will be a legislative process in which we will probably have enough time to make arguments. But I respect that you tried to get us to start talking about this, because it was an attempt to meet earlier, and that didn't happen. But I must remind you that you used the phrase most today: I see no reason, I can't see, I can't see, I can't see. I see no reason that your blindness to architectural expertise would be the only reason to introduce changes to such legislation, which is just a wreck of something that is 70, if not 100 years old, the backbone of the expression of quality architecture, especially in Slovenia. That's why I'm so sorry, but I'm letting this go on when the marriage is on our hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u89	Mr Member, I must warn you that you have violated the rules of procedure and used a procedural proposal. Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u90	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister Alesh Hoys! Last week on Wednesday, the National Institute for Public Health, NIJZ, presented a study on the impact of covida-19 on Slovenia. This study was carried out between adults between 18 and 74 years of age, and the results show that people from the current measures least support the curfew. The least they can do is support your curfew. These are the official NIJ data. The nighttime movement limitation measure has been in force since 20 October, the respected minister, when public life has completely stopped since 21:00. Today is exactly 132 days of curfew. Repeat, Minister, 132 days of curfew. Interestingly, the experts we value most in the SAB have repeatedly questioned the effectiveness and meaning of this measure, and you are still insisting on it. The first epidemiologist in Slovenia, Dr. Mario Fafangel, questioned the night limit of movement. The fact is, then, that there is no evidence that the night shift limit really prevents the spread of infections. This measure takes us nine hours of freedom every day, Minister, and the question is whether it is even appropriate. Are we sure that this measure really prevents the spread of this infection? Tell me, Minister, I would really like to hear from your mouth what this measure means to you personally. It would be the same as everywhere that this measure is – if we call it a measure, it is neither a measure nor a temporary measure for yours, but it is not even temporary anymore, in our case it is not and it does not see the end. You don't even announce or show a desire to stop it. Of course not. It would be best to draw it out by the end of June when the Presidency starts, so that there are no accidents, any such minor protests and what is. That's why I have a very simple question, Minister: Why is an ineffective, totally, completely ineffective and non-lifeless measure of night-time movement limitation, which acts repressively rather than preventively, still in force? When do you think this will be canceled if it does?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, Mr Bandelli! You're a builder like me, so probably logical answers to logical questions are quite understandable. First of all, I'm going to say this about what you're saying – that we don't know anything about when we're going to fix something, that we can't tell you or the general public. Look, Mr. Bandelli, this is a release plan. [[shows the object]] . This is a traffic light we published months ago. If you've read it accurately, it says exactly when the nighttime ban is lifted. The ban on movement during nighttime is lifted when the number of infected per 100,000 inhabitants, i.e. the incidence is less than 600, so we are still far from this yellow phase and when less than 500 are hospitalized. We're almost there. So health care obviously works well, and obviously we'll be coming soon, with at least one of these criteria, to number 500. If you remember, months ago there was a big dilemma or a lot of talk about how we don't know when it's going to be, but let's say how these measures are going to follow each other, and after we've published this traffic light, we stick more or less strictly to it. Perhaps there will be some exceptions in terms of opening schools, perhaps there will be some exception in terms of what we have already done – that we have not in the latter case closed the regions, which is very bad, so coastal and karst, to the municipalities, as it used to be, but left the entire region closed or closed in view of the comparable epidemiological situation across the municipalities so that it is not possible not to enter and exit, as a rule, of course with exceptions. So I have to reject your thesis that we haven't said anything or that we don't know when we're going to release something. The other thing is the analysis itself. That's right. This is the NIJ analysis. [[shows the object]] Which you also quoted. I must say, these questions are very logical. So if you ask someone if they agree that it is necessary to remove the restriction of night movement, I think it makes sense that such an answer will be, or that most will answer yes. However, we want to live as soon as possible as we have lived before this pandemic, but of course this does not mean that this movement restriction has had no effect. We're 16. Ten. 2020 adopted several decisions relating to this pandemic. One of them was that, from the red region, that is, those most infected, we restricted movement outside the region of residence, we banned events, we banned public meetings, we demanded mandatory use of masks and so on. Later, the Advisory Group made it clear that you can look at this in public records, public media, Dr. Beović's performance on this subject several times, and it was pointed out that at that time, the main sources of infection were private associations, which these measures mentioned by 16. Ten. They did not reach 2020. They didn't reach them either because it broke down or it was very modern at the time, private dating, house parties, socializing, where there were more than 10, 20, 30 people, so the government was 20. 10. decided to adopt a resolution on the limitation of movement between 21 and 6 p.m. and further restricted the gathering of people to six people or prohibited or ordered the prohibition of movement between red statistical regions. It's hard to answer a question that says, prove to me that because an epidemic clock has been introduced, so this night's curfew has been less infected. It's hard because we don't actually measure it that way, in fact, it's impossible to measure how many people didn't get together at the time, given that they shouldn't get together. However, the undeniable empirical fact is that everyone has actually intervened under this measure. I explained this last time at a press conference, where I presented from country to country, which country introduced such a measure and which did not. And look at the fraction, more than half of the European countries, especially those most burdened, have implemented or implemented such a measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for mentioning me as a builder earlier, just -- you know what? Unlike me and you, you were also a journalist, and you were in construction, and I'm an economist, you know, an economist, and I was a supervisor, so I know a lot, even more than just what it looks like. That's why I wouldn't be dealing with it right now. But you know, Minister Hoys, of course, with your answer, I am absolutely not satisfied. You've seen this before. You didn't convince me because I have such a feeling, such a strange feeling, that you literally almost enjoy limiting things to people. You almost enjoy it because I see you exactly. In a way or another, as you approach it, how we will squeeze this nation as much as possible to keep it under our control. But in the government, you say you're helping to control the spread of the new coronavirus. Here comes the crucial question. Do you think the virus knows what time it is? What does that have to do with anything? What's the connection between this curfew and 132 days? Here, even one lawyer explains, Dr. Miha Šepec, I will quote you, see: “So invasive and long-lasting interference in the rights of all citizens, without any prior suspicion, or an individual contributing to the spread of the virus, we have not yet had in Slovenia.” It's a profession. [[shows the object]] That's your profession talking about it. Your Dr. Fafangel said that he was completely out of touch with what was going on. Not to talk about others. I read that in your statement to the media on February 11th, you said that this light you mentioned earlier would be the main reason why we could relax. Then you gave cases to other countries. No country in Europe has the same curfew as we have, from 9th to 6th, they have from 10th, 11th to 5th. But here you have also discriminated against activities. You have made pure discrimination against certain activities, such as hospitality, for example, which has been destroyed. And all that depends on your curfew. So I want one answer from you, why you haven't done it yet, Mr. Minister, despite the fact that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Time's up. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u96	Thank you. Let's do this first. If I understood you correctly, Mr Member, you were talking about a journalist somewhere in the introduction or in the other part of this question that I was a journalist or something, if I understood you correctly. I've never been a journalist. I don't know where you got that information. The other thing is, someone runs the company, but that's why there's no need for him to be a journalist. This is a completely depressed statement. The other thing you're talking about is that I'm just enjoying the fact that it's a curfew. Even if you look at this statistics that you showed, or the survey that the NIJS conducted, where they asked about support for the measures currently in force, and there were more than half the answers that did not support the movement limit in the open space between 21:00 and 6pm. More than half of them replied that they did not support it. So if I follow you now, I enjoy that people don't support what I do. Yeah, that would be crazy politics. I mean, I don't know what kind of person you think I am, but to enjoy people doing something they don't like, it would be really catastrophic. It is true, however, that I am sorry that I am in a place where people are also not satisfied with you or that they are not satisfied with the measures, given that there is an epidemiology, to be taken. I am aware that this is difficult for people, I am aware that it is not pleasant, but however you are turning – I have already replied to one of the previous Members when I said – professionally except the vaccine, and also vaccination is only taking place relatively slowly, so far there is no other system or other solution than to drastically limit contacts between residents. You will find it difficult to convince me that even the limitation of night movement does not contribute to the drastic limitation of contact. However, look, despite the dissatisfaction of people, even though Dr. Fafangel spoke of this probably not the most appropriate – by the way, he is just one of 20 or 15 epidemiologists in this country who have different changes. Of course, it is political, depending on what approach we take, more conservative or more liberal. I myself advocate that we are more conservative, that we are more careful, that we may sometimes be more restrictive, but not because people are nervous, not because people are dissatisfied with us, but because we are sooner out of this crazy epidemic. Mr Bandelli, by the way, France – movement limit between 21st and 6th hours. Great France, exactly the same movement limit. So far from being the only one.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bandelli, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, not on the procedural proposal, but on the substantive debate on the question raised. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u98	Now you've got half a minute. I hope you count me half a minute more. [[Yeah.]] Okay, thanks. Dear Minister, it is true that you are giving the case of France, which is the only one that is catastrophic, just as our country is here. Give a better example of Austria, Germany, I don't know, Great Britain, Switzerland, where they didn't even have curfews. They didn't even have it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] How come it's not true? Of course it's true. We know exactly what it is. Don't tell me that. Some took the lockdown as a measure, we took both. We've shut everything down, and we've done a curfew. It's all closed, the inn's been closed for four months, our activities and stores closed until the day before yesterday. Now you're back on the red light, closing down all the shops on the Coast. But still, Minister, with a curfew you discipline and punish people, you literally punish people. In my opinion, I hope not, but I fear that, in particular, those who think otherwise. Those notes are usually the ones that protest. That's why you don't want to relax this thing. You know what the worst part is? The worst part is that you hit a youth, the only one. That's a category you hit incredibly. With the curfew of 9 a.m., you hit a young man. And what do they want to do worse, get infected if it's all closed, if you've given the task that it's all closed anyway? How? There's no inn, there's nothing open at that hour, there's no cinema, I don't know what else there is. Don't talk to me, I'm saying – what? Why from 9:00 to 6:00? We still have this today. It's a disaster. Slovenia has taken a double repressive path, as I said before, to brutally shut down activities, this is the first, and also a curfew, which others have not done. These arguments, this measure is clearly repressive. It's clear that it's repressive, it's clear. But I see you don't understand, Minister. You're sorry about that, as it is. But you don't want to understand, you can't understand and you don't like it that way, you don't want to understand these problems that are cruel and lifeless. This is cruel and lifeless to repeat to you again. And most importantly, it's discriminatory. Discriminatoryly, because certain activities cannot work in this way. That's exactly what you're doing and destroying the economy. That is why I propose that the Vice-President-in-Office be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because this is a major problem for the whole of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March 2021, in the framework of the votes. At the same time, Mr Bandelli, I'd like to say that you told me earlier that I took your seconds. You're the one who got involved before I gave you my word that we understand each other. Let's move on. Mr Blaž Pavlin will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister! This year, the European Commission declared the year of railways. The Ministry of Infrastructure, where you are headed, is also planning a number of upgrades to railway sections and other works on railway infrastructure this year. After more than a decade of saga on the reconstruction of the coach line, however, this end of the year was dedicated to use, and new passenger train sets were also dedicated to use. All of this is very commendable. I would also like to commend that in Slovenia, alongside the second track, other projects on railway infrastructure are discussed or discussed, since railway infrastructure in certain parts of Slovenia reminds us of the outdoor museum and, as such, is not very attractive for everyday use, especially due to long travel times. The average travel speeds of all passenger trains in Slovenia are 51.5 kilometres per hour, which is essential in this fast life-style. A real breakthrough in public rail passenger transport in Slovenia, which will be an environmentally friendly and time-competitive alternative to road transport, will require even greater movement, new routes that will allow higher speed and thus shorter travel times. In this regard, at the Ministry of Infrastructure, you announced the creation of a 2050+ railway vision, which, among other things, would require you to come from Ljubljana to Maribor by train in just 55 minutes. I would like to ask you for more details on the vision of rail transport 2050+ and the steps envisaged for its implementation. Thank you very much for your explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u102	Thank you very much, chairman. Here. This year we have a year of railways, a pan-European big project, and this government is truly aware of the importance of permanent mobility and as backbones of permanent mobility of railway infrastructure, transport by train. Not only are we aware, because we are truly aware of this, but the government has also allocated over €500 million of funding in this year's budget for the upgrade, reconstruction and construction of new railway links. Let me say that this moment is undergoing a reconstruction of the entire mountain transport link, the veins from Kranj to Jesenic, including the Jesenica tunnel, and the coastal railway connection between Brezovica and Ljubljana is also beginning to be renewed and so on. In the 2050+ vision, we have brought together everything necessary to achieve the following objectives: to remove bottlenecks on our rail network, to ensure all TEN-T standards where possible, and this is socially and economically justified, that public rail infrastructure assumes a more important, spinal role in the transport of passengers and goods, to find solutions that enable railways to be competitive in the transport of cars, is said to be at work and from work, and that people then choose to transport by train rather than by car. This vision shows all the necessary investments and takes into account the projects already under way, shows the values of the ongoing projects, taking into account all the necessary resources to complete these projects, the values of the projects we are planning are summarised in the design of the project and investment documentation, including where it is already prepared. The vision also has defined financial resources or how much financial resources are needed. The first is based on the average annual realisation of €300 million and the second scenario is based on projections, which is more ambitious, namely €450 million. Without spending financial investment in our public railway infrastructure, this will still remind us of the outdoor museum. Many of you are talking about why we did not put more railway projects, new projects into the recovery fund, into a real fund for reconstruction. Because they're not ready. There are no projects to be prepared today, placed in space. Let me say that for 12 years there is a line between Ljubljana and Kranj, for example, duality. Seven years between Ljubljana and Kamnik, duality. On such slow matters, we will simply have to wait for other financial perspectives so that we can get European funds for new railway links. Both scenarios therefore have the same purpose, but it is understandable that the scenario where we invest more, i.e. higher investment investments, achieves the necessary objectives earlier. Hold, Ljubljana–Maribor. We have a plan and we have a plan, even when we will fund in 50 minutes after the new route or updated routes with certain new sections from Ljubljana to Maribor, in less than an hour. This is absolutely realistic by reaching into space and cutting certain bends, especially where there is now a section against the Wall Bridge to go directly to Celje and also up in Styria. This vision is certainly realized, prepared by experts not only from the Ministry but also from the Slovenian Railways, from the Faculty. It is set up very boldly and optimistically, but, of course, reinforcements must also follow in the professional teams, in the very stage of preparation and also in the implementation of projects. This applies both to the number of experts and to the appropriateness of the competent profiles. In general, the time horizon set in the strategy until 2030 has therefore been extended very boldly to 2050 or even further. This strategy, which will also come to Parliament, also sets out very clear conclusions on how to speed up the placement of rail infrastructure in a space that does not take more than 10 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your answer first. Perhaps I would just add that the main focus on rail upgrades has so far been mainly on freight transport at the main crossings, it is said, where we have already already established European corridor standards, and improvements to passenger transport have been of secondary importance or have not been at all so far. In the future, further efforts will need to be made to develop an upgrade alongside this main axis of additional regional rail links, in order for people to make a more frequent decision on the train instead of the car. I am aware that the end of the year was, as of December of last year, an expert basis for the duality of the stone and bottom lines and duality towards Kranj. I am pleased that the competent ministry has already announced an initiative to draw up a State Spatial Plan for Railway Upgrading. 80, this is the state border – Metlika-Ljubljana at the section Ivančna Gorica-Ljubljana. At this point, I would like to give you the initiative to continue to upgrade the line in the future on the entire route, preferably at the Ivančna Gorica-Trebnje-New Town section, in order to connect Ljubljana and the capital city and Novo Mesto as a regional centre with a strong economic initiative and to enable faster freight and passenger transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The regional lines of that key importance are certainly to strengthen sustainable mobility for transport to and from work. This is why we started the process of placing regional routes against Kranj, against Kamnik and against Ivančni Gorica, and this strategy also defines this. We are talking about the new placement of duality, it is said that we will have tact trains for 15 minutes, for example from Ivančna Gorica to Ljubljana. I believe that this will do the most for our climate or for a cleaner environment, because this will reduce the pressure of cars on Ljubljana itself if we have good connections to the train. This makes regional duplicity really crucial. I believe that we can draw up legislation that will allow faster deployment of the so-called two-tracks into space. Because this is a broader social problem, we are talking about a green agreement, it is said how we respect the environment. This will also be one of the key conclusions we will come to the National Assembly in preparing this strategy. It is said that we will not only define ourselves up to two-tier regional lines, but also to identify how this is financed and to propose it, and how a law will be drawn up that will allow faster and more effective placement into space. The link to the New City is certainly one of the key links. When we do two times, this is also an opportunity to electrify the entire line. This is the moment in which we plan to see analyses for duality against the New City or first against Ivančni Gorica also against the New City, this spine, this rail vein electrifies. Because it is very convenient for people from New City, for example, to really decide to go to Ljubljana by train, not by car. For freight transport – see, we have two large companies in this part, we have 10 large companies in Slovenia for example Krko, we have Revos from New Town, and this is also true for freight transport. So, the bottom rail link is one of the key to updating it, for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jože Lenart will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u108	Dear Minister! My question is based on the role of internal audit as a tool to improve the efficiency of public health business. In economic crises, caused even by the health situation this time, resources for health care are further reduced. Thus, it is necessary for the management of public health institutions to take the fullest role in building an effective system for managing business risks, which is also legally possible for internal supervision of public finances. The Public Finance Act provides in Article 100 for the responsibility of the Head of the Health Institute to establish financial management, control and internal audit, as well as advice to management to improve their effectiveness. In Slovenian health care we have always witnessed both in the public and in the official audit reports of the Court of Auditors and investigative bodies many irregularities, non-transparent business and damage to public property. All of this shows that we do not have the appropriate mechanisms provided or are ineffective to prevent irregularities and unsustainable use of public financial resources. Internal auditors shall be trained to identify signs of fraud, fraud, conflict of interest and asset damage. If such derogations are detected within the framework of the internal audit, they shall immediately inform the management. This is all the more important, as the public health institution is, as a rule, run by health-care managers who themselves do not have the necessary knowledge in the field of public finances and legislation. As a result, several investigations are being conducted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in this particular area of non-transparent healthcare business, procurement of protective medical equipment even during an epidemic in the past business, as indicated by the Court of Auditors' audit reports. Dear Minister, we've heard about this at the hearing session, and today I ask you again: With your arrival at UKC Ljubljana with one of the first measures, why did you dissolve the internal audit service, although you would expect to strengthen it in the light of the findings and recommendations of the Court's audit report for the past period before your arrival? With what measures to improve the transparency of operations of UKC Ljubljana have you compensated for the discharge of the internal audit service in order to satisfy the prescribed public finances legislation? What measures do you foresee as Minister of Health to improve the organisation of public health institutions to increase the efficiency and transparency of Slovenian health care? So that we do not get overpaid purchases of operating tables, venous braces, hip braces, protective medical equipment and even health institutes that are not [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u109	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry your time has run out. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Jože Lenart! Because of the inefficiency of the internal audit service, we are from 1. On 11th 2020, the organisational unit of the Internal Audit Service was abolished. The management has already concluded in 2019 that the internal audit service was unable to manage the reporting on the recommendations and measures recorded in the audit reports. Thus, in 2021 it does not mean that there will be no internal audit at the clinical centre, but this will be ensured by an external contractor to be selected on the basis of a public invitation to tender. For the revision must be pursued in accordance with the purpose set out in the guidelines for national internal audit adopted by the Ministry of Finance, as already mentioned and cited by the law. As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, transparency and legality must be the basis of the functioning of the public system and of course of every good host. No matter how public I may be, even though I feel that it is unjustifiable, I am pursuing my entire career in accordance with these principles. As Minister, I am concerned that, at all levels and among all stakeholders, we will achieve uniform foundations. Because it is only in this way that it will be possible for different stakeholders in public health to compare and correct deviations or develop a system. We see the basis here in linking information systems between different levels of health care or in the public sphere. Strategic registers and strategic ciphers must first be established. Only in this way will we be able to compare all operators with one another and achieve greater transparency and faster detection of possible deviations. The findings on irregularities and intransparency will be the basis for better functioning of the system and each quality system is based on this. And just a little bit of health based on this basis, which is also based on quality, is said to be better prevented than treated. Here's, I'll say, a vision and a strategy in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u112	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, I would like to further develop this issue. We have 84 health institutions, of which there are 50 health homes, then we have 15 hospitals and two UKCs and then seven institutions and three institutes. It is necessary to set up, as you yourself have already said, an effective organisation with objectives and control and support for setting up an information system with which all public health institutions must identify themselves without it. Otherwise, as Minister, the Chief Manager cannot control this system or any improvement. That's what it's been like so far. So set a goal, a system that would also enable you, Minister, to effectively control your business, could, so I wonder if you could extend your services to the Ministry of Health, where you are already in charge of transparency and prevention of health corruption, but unfortunately in this service you do not have experts on public finances control. [[…]] We have also found this in the Commissions for these checks that we are carrying out. We get to that point everywhere. There are large multinationals in the world who, without such organisations, could not survive, including Ikea with 400 centres around the world, have 40 billion incomes, that is to say for two entire budgets of Slovenia, and only with such an effective approach can the information system manage it together. Once again, I ask you: Do you not agree that such a greater efficiency would be the operation of public health institutions, which should be carried out as minister to rationalise and increase the productivity of Slovenian health care?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, again. Surely we must first ensure in healthcare, as I said, basic standards, that we will all be based on the same starting points, and, of course, at the same time with the connecting platform, ensure that all decision makers together have the right data in real time, including for control and control, not just for management. The biggest problem at this point is the single methodology or uniform basis for assessing the basic objective criteria on which we can build this system – this is the main problem – which must be based on quality development or internal controls and also on others that are written and prescribed by legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'm glad we agree on some points. The supervision of public spending has a very important place in democratic countries. Taxpayers want complete information on how their money is spent, so they are increasingly demanding more efficient and, of course, cost-effective. On the other hand, we have taxpayers with the development of medicine and ageing societies increasingly in need of quality public health services and, of course, the need for budgetary financing. All of this and the Public Finance Act itself, both our Members and, of course, you, as Minister of Health in a given situation, are committed to improving the situation in this area, which must also be in your interest. I therefore propose that we hold a broader public debate at one of the future meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March 2021, in the framework of the votes. Only Bevk will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! First of all, Mr Vrtovec, I thank you for your comprehensive answer to my written question on projects on the 4th Development Axis of 17 December 2020. I am particularly interested in these projects, which will be implemented in the next period, in two projects: the construction of a new state road between Cerknim and Hotavljavi and the modernisation or reconstruction of the road between Želen and Lower Idrija. As for the first one, Mr. Secretary, I am interested in the following: How far is the procedure for the preparation and adoption of the State Spatial Plan for the Section between Cerkni and Hotavlja, which will be the basis for the issue of the building permit? With regard to the second project, I am very dissatisfied with the answer to the written question because only ongoing maintenance works are to be carried out in this section, and in fact the section between Želeně and Lower Idrija is in the worst condition on the entire 4th development axis. I propose that this section be included in the development programme plan, that the necessary investment documentation and the project be included in the state budget and that the necessary land be obtained before construction. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: Will you start with a complete reconstruction of the section between Želen and Lower Idrija? How is the process of preparing and adopting the State Spatial Plan for the New Construction of Cerknim and Hotavljas, which connects Primorsko and Gorenjska? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Vice President. The 4th Development Axis project, which connects Upper Soča and Idrija-Cerkljanska to Gorenjska, has certainly received significantly more investment than it has in the past. Attention to linking this part of Slovenia, Sočje, Idrija-Cerkljansko, with the central part of Slovenia is also now the priority of the Government. As far as the state road between Cerknim and Hotavljavi is concerned, a review of all the variants studied so far was carried out here in 2017. Despite the correction and optimization of the route itself, the results were not significantly different from those of previous years. Then came 2019 and in November 2019 a verification of new variants was also made. However, it follows from the verification made that the advantage of the southern variants, which are economically more favourable and have less environmental impact and enable phase construction. We have signed with both mayors, the mayor of Cerknje and the mayor of Gorenje Vasi - Poljan, a special protocol in relation to this connection. But let me say that procedures in this country have been going on for a long time. I would also like the placement to be within one year and the state spatial plan to start the construction, but unfortunately we have a country being liberalised to the extent that it moves away in 2024. The study will be the basis for the preparation of spatial documentation. Let me tell you, this documentation is already in preparation. The material for obtaining the completed guidelines has already been provided to all space regulators to provide guidance for the planning of each area. The new proposed solution also follows the objectives of the Resolution itself on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia. What does that mean? This means that existing road infrastructures should be used, reconstructed or upgraded to the greatest extent possible in upgrading road links, only in individual cases or in sections where an appropriate standard cannot be provided on existing infrastructure, and appropriate solutions should be explored and found outside the existing route. It's also a schedule. I know it hurts when we say 2024, how far is it? In the framework plan, the project is expected to be spatially installed by 2024. The public disclosure of the most appropriate option is expected to take place next year in March. Unfortunately, it's not going well this year, but believe me, when we signed the protocol, we fought to do it. In the second half of 2022 – I hope it would be earlier – it would also be accepted in the Government. It will be followed by the development of a spatial plan to be drawn up by the end of 2023 and in the beginning of 2024 publicised and then adopted in 2024. After the adoption of the VAT, all activities for land purchase, design and other research necessary for the construction itself will begin. During all this time, many things can be done on this route within this road. I believe that they will now begin maintenance work, which may also be a major intervention. Unfortunately, we have such procedures that the adoption of the VAT is carried out in 2024. As far as the Gehenna-Low Idrija section is concerned, I drive here several times and say yes, I know that it is in very poor condition. However, no specific development programme plan has been defined or the current investment plan and transport infrastructure has been adopted, I tell you, since 2019, December 2019. There is no definition, right, no special measure beyond what it means to update and facilitate reconstruction, regular investment works and so on, all of this holds true. This is also not further defined in the resolution. What I can promise, I promise you, I will go with the DRSI over this part and we will look into the possibilities of including this in the NRP.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, Minister, for your answer. You have devoted much of your attention to the work between Cerkni and Hotavlja, which is on the church-gorenje leg of the 4th development axis, while you have devoted little less to the section between Želen and Lower Idrija, which is on the Idrija-logic part of the 4th development axis, because we are talking about the so-called 4th development axis Y. When I submitted an amendment to the state budgets for 2021 and 2022 for this section, it is said that between Želen and Lower Idrija, which is in the worst condition on the 4th development axis, the Government has written in its refusal of justification that, “for the reconstruction of the road between Želen and Lower Idrija, it is necessary to produce investment documentation and project in the budget and to obtain the necessary land before construction”. End of story. This was written by the Government, the real ministry, in response to my amendment to budget 2021, 2022, while in response to last December's question, which I received in the hands of January 4, you wrote that only some maintenance regular work would be done. Mr Minister, I ask that in fact, like the Government on my amendment, investment documentation and the project be put into the state budget for the implementation of this reconstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u124	I said that we will go again as soon as possible, even through all the dynamics around this, it is said to take into account the dynamics of the real traffic need. I told you, I know exactly where this road is going towards Lower Idrija, I know it, and we'll go through it and I'll invite you to the Ministry as soon as possible and we'll decide. It is necessary to follow the dynamics that individual activities are carried out directly from identified transport problems, transport burdens and can then be opened by the NRP. We will go over this again, look at these options, Mr Member, and we can meet with Director DRSI and take one step further on how to update this part, for sure. But even if it says regular maintenance, this room of manoeuvre can be very large so that there will be no mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkoršek will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Honourable Minister Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology in the Republic of Slovenia! At the outset, I may take this opportunity to thank you, on behalf of entrepreneurs, economists and espouses of all those who work daily in the economy, for your work so far. Above all, I am thinking of the work as Minister of Economy in the last year, because in these most difficult times in the history of the Republic of Slovenia you have done your job with a medal. Of course, there is always a segment in which we can all be even better together, but it is very difficult to judge certain things from afar, but it is much harder to face when you are in the place you occupy. My question, Madam Minister, relates to the fact that at the beginning of this year or autumn of last year I was awkwardly surprised when the country was hit by this epidemic, which we wish it would leave as soon as possible, was written to me by a number of students. In particular, a number of students who are employed or who are doing their job in a state-owned company are Petrol. I found some information that there are about 400 students in this company every year. I was surprised that the Petrol administration had decided in these difficult times — first, I would forgive all students — that there was no work for 300 students anymore. Minister, I know this isn't your area, that you're not responsible, but I'm worried as an MP because I've been getting a lot of e-mails about why. So I'm wondering: Why did the dismissal of students employed in Petrol occur at the time of the declared epidemic? I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member Bojan Podkorošek, distinguished National Assembly! Thank you for asking. Petrol, d.d., is a public limited private equity company and its largest shareholder is a private entity from abroad. The Republic of Slovenia owns and owns the Slovenian State Holding and Capital Company and owns a bad third of the shares and the resulting corporate rights. This right shall be exercised by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the annual capital investment management plan of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Slovenian State Holding and Minister responsible for Finance each year and sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for confirmation. As set out in that plan and also in the Company Act, the owners of companies cannot influence decisions on the conduct of specific business in these companies. Specific operational business decisions are the responsibility of Petrol, d.d., which represents and represents the company and leads the business of the company on its own and at its own responsibility. Petrol gas services were normally opened throughout the epidemic last year and this year. During the period when the decisions were fully closed, other suppliers were able to operate uninterruptedly, but it is true that the supply of accompanying services was or was still partially limited. I believe that, due to restrictions elsewhere, the sale of certain goods has even increased, and I believe that due to the reduced need for transit or routes, the share of fuel sales has decreased fully. As far as the students are concerned, the following. With regard to the employment of students, it is a fact that in this case it is not a classical job to which forgiveness is linked, but rather a form of temporary completion of additional work, which must by no means replace regular employees. As explained, on Petrol's business decisions, d.d., I cannot have, as a minister, any direct influence, and the interest of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in relation to the management of companies that are also owned by the State is that these companies are governed by the highest professional, internationally established standards of business. I cannot go into what is the reason for the decision to save in this area. I hope that this year, because we will generally be in a better position, will be improved and that, at least this year in all areas, we will return to at least some of the old levels in relation to this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u130	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This first part, in particular, I understand the first part of your answer, but I am also pleased with this second part. However, I would still like to say in the introduction that you have made some effort in these difficult times, that as many employees as possible have stayed in companies, those who have lost their jobs for a while have been compensated, and I think that citizens and citizens appreciate it. [[…]] I know you can't influence Petrol, you've also explained his ownership structure nicely to me, but the management will still find it difficult to convince me that they acted as a good master – maybe they will – but I'm afraid they will – if they have decided in these difficult times that 300 students don't need them anymore. We know that some students need work to study, that some students have lost their parents for some time, or that they do not have such personal income to help their children, resulting in students. In short, when they come in, and when everyone goes on vacation, then we need these students to go to work. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I am cut off from the administration or from the one who made such a decision in Petrol, but he will probably have to convince me by some action that he works as a good master. Once again, good work, Minister, and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u132	Thanks again. According to our data, sales revenues in Petrol have decreased mainly in the field of fuel sales, as I said, in other additional segments, according to our estimates, traffic is higher due to restrictions elsewhere. In the balance sheet alone, I cannot run the differences in the price of fuel sales, as in the sale of the supplementary programme, and the fact is that measures to curb the spread of coronavirus on roads make less vehicles. The fall is mainly present in petrol services on the motorway cross, near the border with Italy. Meanwhile, in the course of the sale of other goods and services, as I said, they have not recorded a significant decline or even increased sales in some areas, particularly in the supply of natural gas. At a time when we are fighting to preserve existing jobs, I believe that students are too, or I hope that students have also found new jobs in areas where the demand for labour has increased significantly, for example in the field of packaging, storage, delivery, because trade itself has to a large extent been restructured. We'll see how much room there is for students here. As has already been said, I hope that we will arrive as soon as possible in a normal period, so let us all do our utmost to survive or work in a more normal business environment for at least the rest of this year, in a business environment that will allow us to generate at least the same results as we did before the coronary crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukić will ask the Culture Minister Dr Vask Simoniti and the Minister of Justice mags. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Your Honor! The new financial blockade on payments from the budget seriously jeopardises the social situation of the staff at STA. This blockade also means the continuation of an attempt to decommission and destroy the STA media house. The Agency is constantly under pressure and exhausting the director of the government communication office Uroš Urbani, who faithfully follows the principles of the prime minister of the media war. Let's remember. Following the fact that UKOM had only settled all outstanding liabilities at the end of January after several months, according to the right saga and even after the intervention of Brussels, it informed the UK that any contractual relationship between UK and STA had ended these days, provided that UKOM did not have any legal basis on which it could pay the invoices sent to it by companies with which it did not have a regulated contractual relationship. While UKOM is deceived by the fact that the condition for payment of the public service bill is a new contract, the Slovenian Press Association and the Slovenian Press Union point out that this is not true, since the 7th Anti-Corron Act explicitly stipulates that in 2021 the STA has secured funding on the basis of the adopted business plan of the State, irrespective of whether it has concluded a contract with the founder. The legal basis for payment is directly the seventh anti-korona law and the payer is the founder of the Republic of Slovenia, represented by the Government. Minister and Minister, I ask: How will they act and ensure the legitimate payment of the State's obligations to our national press agency? How are you going to stop this agony of the spine of our media what it is? Your task is to ensure the legality of the government and its departments, to implement the laws adopted. I'm still asking: How will you ensure that violations of laws that have been passed by a large majority of the Assembly of State are stopped? How will you ultimately protect STA employees who are seriously at risk of being blocked by law? Do you really care if the existence of these people is threatened, even if they are conscientiously doing their job? In addition, irrespective of the seven anti-korona law that I am referring to, the Government must fund the STA in a stable manner and pay for the market share of services directly from the STA Act, which has been practice for 29 years, until this government's appearance. Otherwise, the constitutional right to information is under threat. I want to know: How will they ensure that the right to information is guaranteed to the public? Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u136	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Madam Member, Mrs Sukić, thank you for these questions as well. Freedom of the media is a reflection of democratic society and, in fact, its reflection. To the question you have addressed to the Ministry of Justice, let me tell you that the Ministry of Justice is concerned and is responsible for an autonomous and independent justice system in order to act. And because we know and you yourself have indicated that certain procedures are open, as Minister, I cannot and must not comment on civil proceedings or criminal proceedings, so I will also refrain from doing so. The STA Act itself, which regulates the relationship between the State and the Republic of Slovenia, is within the competence of the Ministry of Culture, so that these professional questions and questions remain within their competence. However, I sincerely wish that this dispute could be resolved as soon as possible, that it would not be necessary to intervene in court and that the agency that we urgently need in our society can function effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u138	Thank you very much. If the STA or if Mr Urbanija has declared that they have exhausted all the routes that would obligate him to continue paying, they should find the appropriate ways to resolve this situation. The Ministry of Culture will act with its responsibilities. I would say, however, that the Government provided funding to the public service for last year in the UKOM budget, as we know, the STA must then sign the annual contract on behalf of the founder. As you have found, for 2021 PKP7 laid down in Article 66 a new basis for the financing of the public service of the State and, irrespective of Article 20 of the STA Act, this Law for 2021 regulates the financing of the public service carried out by the State in accordance with the law. Therefore, in the STA they provide funds in accordance with the adopted Business Plan STA for 2021, as you have identified. This means that for the public service of the STA for 2021 budgetary resources must be provided at the level set out in the STA business plan. However, there is still a legal basis for concluding such an annual contract with the founder, as the PKP7 did not delete it. If the contract is not concluded, the issue of the execution of the financing itself, which the PKP7 does not speak of, and if there is no contractual agreement, the question arises as to the role of UKOM in the financing of the STA for 2021 in the budget for which the budgetary user is provided these funds and to whom the STA addresses its request. PKP7 speaks only of the state budget, so if there is no treaty, it remains only the founder, this is the Government. This should obviously empower UKOM or another direct budgetary user to carry out funding on its behalf and to address other issues necessary to carry out financing and control procedures. Simply put, the STA sent an account to UKOM, given the situation described above, but as I said, it should ask the Government, who is it, whether anyone in its name is authorised and responsible for the STA. In fact, this problem also relates to State aid. As far as this is concerned with State aid, then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or its ministries are competent to deal with state aid problems, but they also have the right to control their role – what would you say? – public authorities. And in this regard, it seems to me that the whole problem has arisen, whether or not the STA is obliged to report and how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u140	Dear Minister, are you kidding me or what? The seventh anti-korona law clearly states that the STA must be paid, their work. And as Minister, the Ministry of Culture is responsible for the media. So if anyone in the government is in the first place, you're in the first place. Stop making a fool out of your own laws and from us Members and Members here in the National Assembly with such statements. Moreover, STA employees also point out that in government groups, despite all the shameless and free use of the agency's services, they share their tweets, their consciences, which are theirs, are marred by unwarranted comments when tweets are published, the STA news, which they are not willing to do. What is further worrying and rejection by the government is that, as of today, the STA has also lost one of the largest contracting authorities in its market services, the government administration, since by the end of February the SAA market services contract had not been concluded. The Agency thus for the first time in history, after 29 years, is shutting down access to these contents, which is very sad. It will enable those national authorities to conclude separate contracting contracts. It is significant, however, that the National Press Agency, the NTA, has started operating at this time, which according to publications is highly favoured by the government of Janez Janša and the far right political gender. The main editor is Aleš Ernestel, a member of the SDS party whose writing has so far been promoted by Nova24. Minister Simoniti, I want to know: Does your ministry intend to finance or co-finance the operation of the NTA in any way, and if so, why? Would it not be an unnecessary duplication and further undermining of our STA in this case? Do you really think that you are putting state authorities in an awkward position by cutting them off also from the market share of STA services?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u142	A while ago, another Member spoke about this NTA — what is it? It's a national press agency. I don't even know the person you were talking about. I don't know, it's sneezing and according to what you do more than once. I have to say, I don't know anything about NTA. I don't know anything about a new agency. Please, please, private people can do whatever they want and do it. However, I think that S.A. has probably avoided reporting on its duty, and if someone thinks that someone is maintaining it, and if they are asked or asked to report on their work, then let them do so. In return, all of this happened, in the sense that the state paid everything for 2020 and for 2021 no contract was reached. What's more, I'm not aware of it. I guess if I have to, I'll get to know it. That's all I can answer you about. To inspire or talk to me about all those tweets, but what you're doing – I don't know – keep going. I don't tweet, I don't read tweets, I don't know about any of these weird new agencies. So I ask you to refrain from instigating and suggesting that my government has something to do with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u144	Your Government has something else to do with this, as we can read, forgive, your own prime minister who attacks the media at the daily level, so let's stop moving. In addition, once again, the seventh anti-korona package clearly states that there is no basis for this year's contract for the payment of STA funds. So, please, the law that was adopted here is talking about it. So it's breaking the law. And you, as Minister, are competent to care for the legality of your department. Under your department are the media, so you're the first to alert the government to do so. I am gradually proposing that the intentional exhaustion of the STA by the Government and the growing agony of employees and the violation of the constitutional right of the public to information in this national council be seriously discussed in order to stop these games. Let's take another look. The Slovenian Society of Journalists has warned that this is another manoeuvre by UK Director Uroša Urbanija, who wants to destabilise STA with financial pressures. It is also noted by the Slovenian press executive union. The European Press Agency Association is, for example, a communication that it does not agree with the current actions of the Slovenian Government against the member of the STA. Even in international disgrace, we have fallen for these actions, Your Honor. The government has called on the association to stop acts that harm the agency. The International Press Institute, the IPI, also believes that this is not a misunderstanding about the financing agreement, but rather the pressure of the Janša government on the agency. We all see it, and we all know it, so let's stop fooling around. I'm going back to tweeting because it doesn't matter what the prime minister of this country does. In fact, Prime Minister Janez Janša on Twitter regularly reckons with critics, even from abroad, and this really doesn't go anywhere anymore. Pressure on journalists, pressure on editors, pressure on the media that Janez Janša doesn't like, in a way that's shameless and illegal. We have a law, two laws that stipulate that STA must be financed. And since the first, classic law, basic law obviously doesn't work since Uroš Urbanija is in UKOM, we have the seventh anti-Korona package, which clearly states that the contract for this year is not necessary. So stop with this contract that's not necessary. Why did we write that down? It's precisely because we see what maneuvers are taking place, and that's why this fuse is inserted into the seventh anti-korona package. If this is not paid by the Government, then you, Minister, and the whole government are breaking the law. And so do you, Minister of Justice, so today I've addressed your case to you. So once again, we're going to have to talk about this one more time. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u145	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March 2021, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Vice-President of the National Assembly! My question is the practical continuation of two written questions related to the validity of free pension cards for cross-border passenger transport. As you know, at about this time last year, at the initiative of our Group of Members in the National Assembly, we discussed the proposal to support the 65-year-olds, pensioners, war veterans and disabled persons with free public passenger inland transport, and this initiative was supported in the National Assembly, supported by the former Minister, and also by the new Government, made great efforts to make it by 1. 7. this system has come to life. We were all very pleased that this benefit has benefited from some 150 to 160 thousand users from more than 600 thousand beneficiaries. The fact that the measure was good and effective was both this information and the interesting fact that during the summer months, due to a great interest in certain sales places, there was even almost no card and card system for initialising these tickets. Nevertheless, the ministry, with great effort, has eliminated this temporary shortage. We must be aware that at the time there was also a worldwide lockdown and that certain transport routes were simply made difficult. Given the slow arrival of July, my question is: In what way will you extend the validity of free tickets, tickets for cross-border passenger transport, especially in such a way that for pensioners over 65 years of age, war veterans, disabled persons will not be burdensome, difficult to implement and will be cost-free? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u148	Thank you, Chairman. In view of the measures taken to prevent and mitigate the consequences of covida-19, the Ministry of Infrastructure will, as a result of which beneficiaries of subsidised free tickets, pensioners, persons over 65 years of age, disabled persons, war veterans, holders of the European card of benefits and so on, have been unable to use tickets for several months, that is to say, find the simplest and most effective solution for beneficiaries. In particular, all the status and conditions for keeping the ticket will be checked. All beneficiaries who still qualify for a free ticket will be automatically renewed. It will be extended for one year, without any surcharge, without any other procedures at the sales venues. The extensions will be carried out by means of an executive sheet method that allows all updates and changes to be transferred to the card when the first contact with the mobile terminal is made. So it will not go to the detriment of the beneficiaries, not financially or administratively, but when you get on the bus, on the train, this ticket will be extended.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u150	Dear Minister, I would like to thank you for this answer, which is certainly encouraging for the more than 160,000 users who have taken over this card. I am pleased that we have clearly established this digital database system, which can automatically check these matters and extend them. This is also one step towards digitising and informing public administration and certainly an example of good practice. I want this to come to life, as you said, in fact, it's our common interest. But I also want this benefit, which has so far been recognized by more than 160,000 users, to identify the other slightly more than 400 000 users who do not have these cards. I want to do this, and on this occasion I call on them to acquire this card and actively use free public passenger transport in cross-border transport. I also want this benefit to extend to urban public passenger transport, as proposed in the SAB. Once again, Minister, I thank you for your answer and I want this matter to work as you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary doesn't want to. Let's move on. Edward Paulič will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u152	Thank you, Chairman. The legislative and legal service reminds you, on every proposal for the law of the CAP, that the law is prepared in a unclear, incomprehensible, inexplicable and that it leads to legal non-resistance, as the legal position of the addressees is becoming increasingly difficult to understand. And apparently this ambiguity also applies to government decisions. Citizens receive different information, depending on who they turn to. But the problem is that your confusion affects people's fates and people feel like you're making fun of them. If we just look at the last example of the guest activity decree. For virtually four months, the whole country lived in the belief that the inn is closed to everyone if we consider taking food personally. And then your business meeting happens, and suddenly the Slovenian public finds out that the inn can be opened if they serve meals or meals for employees in companies, even though you have been answering the specific questions of the inn for almost four months before that is not possible, and passing balls between the ministry and the inspectorate, who is responsible for something. The hospitality is one of the worst-affected activities that is closed so that other activities can work, and at least what it is, they deserve to be treated with some respect. And then we can see that your State Secretary on public television quietly says that such an arrangement has been in place since the very beginning. The guests deserve clear answers, so I ask you, Mr. Minister: Is the inn public space or is it not, given that we are still getting conflicting information from different ends? Can lunches be served at the inn for two different companies at the same time or can lunch be served for one company after another if the inn has two separate rooms? What is the reason why there are ten business partners in the inn from different backgrounds and cannot go to lunch with a family from the same environment? So I ask you to explain this logic to me, especially on the last question, but in a way that people will once and for all understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u154	Your Honor, Mr. Edward Paulic, President-in-Office of the State! Thank you for asking. In your question, you refer to the Ordinance on the Temporary Prohibition of the Offering and Sale of Consumer Goods and Services in the Republic of Slovenia. This is the decree we are preparing at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Otherwise, much has been said and recorded in the media in recent weeks. This decree in itself restricts or temporarily prohibits the supply and sale of goods and services to consumers, i.e. natural persons. That's completely understandable. At the same time, the decree allows for a number of exceptional, a set of which depends on epidemiological imagery and all the factors on which the government decides on a weekly basis on the appropriateness and further need for action. This is a follow-up to the action plan adopted by the Government in December 2020. Among the exceptions allowed at all times is the personal acquisition of food and drink, other than alcohol, between 6 and 21 hours and without a time limit also of delivery services. Of course, always taking into account the NIJ’s instructions and recommendations. Therefore, the decree does not regulate the relationship between undertakings or does not interfere with the business relationship between the providers of goods and services and their business partners, if we can call it business to business. This has been properly interpreted all the time, for example by what you say is no, by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where they also published on their website on 6 November 2020 that B2B is allowed and that the prohibitions apply exclusively to consumers. At the same time, the existing decrees of other ministries must also be taken into account for proper interpretation, especially the relevant decision of the Ministry of the Interior, which restricts the collection of people and the consumption of food on public surfaces. Our decree therefore allows for the personal acquisition of food and drink, except for alcohol, and delivery; however, it is also necessary to take into account the MNZ decree that collection is currently limited and the consumption of food and drink on public surfaces is not allowed. In addition, it has been stated throughout the exceptions that the preparation and service activity may be carried out in order to provide food for employees, if I may say so-called cafeterias, and in such cases the assembly restrictions do not apply when it comes to workers of one company. If an individual undertaking had a contract with another undertaking for this purpose, this activity could continue to be carried out smoothly. I hope that this response has further contributed to a better understanding of the decree and the current conditions for the employment of guests. I would like the health situation to improve as soon as possible so that we can start releasing measures and gradually starting activities. According to the government plan, the first new releases of these activities are foreseen in the yellow phase and I believe that we will be able to do so with cooperation and joint efforts soon. We didn't make any decisions and no interpretations for a bad purpose. All interpretations were clear, but of course the explanations of what we were doing were misused. And I can only say that with my visit, because you mentioned my visit to Taverna, I did not open the place, but I did a business event there., the more I deny all the other interpretations, the more some will talk about the opposite or other interpretations. I would also like to say that we have taken care of the hospitality industry, which is in an extremely difficult situation as tourism as a whole, as well as of the other sectors in this direction, so that I can say that we have kept most of the jobs in this sector in the first phase. We are working to provide funds to restart. And I believe that this industry will continue to take steps to get us into the situation we were in before the crisis as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u156	Thank you, Chairman. Members, particularly members of the opposition, we are already accustomed to not getting exact answers to our specific questions; and this is your attitude towards us. If all of your interpretations were clear, as you said in your reply, then most of the guests would provide food services for businesses; but this is obviously not the case. I specifically asked you whether the inn was public space or not. And that's because there are different interpretations. You didn't give me that answer. I asked you if the inn had two separate rooms, if it could serve lunch to two separate companies. I didn't get an answer. I asked you what the difference is that there can be ten business partners in the inn, but they cannot be members of one family. You said that in part, I admit. Your inappropriate interpretation has caused some business damage or damage to the budget and to our citizens. Because if the innkeepers could work these four months, they'd get smaller subsidies and they'd go to the companies that need this help. That's why I want to know: Do you feel responsible for the loss of income to the guests? Will you answer if the indemnity claims are made by the innkeepers? What will you do to make future decisions, regulations, and explanations more understandable?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u158	Dear Member, I think I have answered all your questions. If you don't want to understand what it is to offer goods and services to natural persons, I can't help you here. We have completely separate two activities in the inn. In this case, what you are asking is either offering goods to natural persons or doing business. You're talking about public space. Public space is when you have different natural persons inside. But when we have a closed cafeteria for one company, it's not public space. And that's allowed. We can argue as much as you want, about what the interpretation of one or the other will be. I believe that we have done everything we can to make sure that the guests can count on them to start things again when they relax. I feel responsible for what we've prescribed. However, I do not feel responsible for the interpretations that are consistently presented in an incorrect sense in public by one part of the people who can do so through the media.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u160	Thank you, Chairman. This was a typical example of clear explanations to the public. I suggest you talk to the Ministry of the Interior about public space. Their interpretation is completely different from yours. I note that we have not only a crisis of trust, a crisis of communication, but also a crisis of understanding our own decisions. Therefore, honourable Presidents, I propose that a general debate be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March 2021, in the framework of the votes. Mojca Škrnjar will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: Will the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport encourage the process of placing state and international achievements in chess competitions of students as criteria for achieving the Zois Scholarship? Chess is a skill that strengthens more human ability — logic, mathematics, the ability to represent in space and also in time. I propose that the competent ministers of education and work be linked and that they prepare the basis for that accommodation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member of the Shrine, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for the initiative, but I understand it more as a question of the mission; nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say what the primary purpose of the award of Zois's scholarships has been so far. It is one of the most prestigious scholarships in terms of supporting the excellent knowledge of our students, students, students and students in their further development. With an extremely long tradition based primarily on the criteria of the highest results achieved in the form of learning success and, in addition to knowledge, added the criterion or aspect of verification, in addition to learning success, through their research achievements of research tasks, development activities and some artistic achievements. For the time being, sport as such – including in this combined form of knowledge through sport, which is a reliable chess game – has not yet been and is certainly worth considering and considering this additional criterion, even then in relation to the expansion of possible support for such top achievements at other comparable levels, both in terms of the highest achievements at home and at international level. This is certainly worth considering. It is also true that this is an approach in which, in cooperation, under the basic competence of the Ministry of Labour, we do so together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport mentioned above. And that this moment what has been defined as an area of scientific discipline or more scientific disciplines related to learning plans by subject or subject areas has been exposed to the fields of the following areas – Slovenian or Italian or Hungarian, foreign language, history, geography, mathematics, physics, technology, computer and computer science, astronomy, philosophy, economics, psychology, logic, chemistry, biology and science. These are the key areas. The curriculum for chess as an optional selection subject in primary school already exists and is also one of the interdisciplinary areas again; however, it is a competitive form of chess game representative of mental sports. For the time being, as it is said, competitions from sport are not yet covered by the criteria, but achievements in chess competitions of students as a criterion for achieving Zois scholarship can only be classified on the basis of changes in criteria and criteria defined first in the law and then in the Regulations on the award of Zois scholarships. This can certainly be a point for a thorough discussion of your initiative; and in the final phase, we have just received a review of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia on the efficiency of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia in the regulation of the system of work with talented and the system of school competitions in the Republic of Slovenia. The audit took place in the period from 1. 1. 2017 to 31. 12. 2017. Here are quite a few responses that we will draw up, and on the basis of which we will also have to make certain reflections and follow-up activities in this light. I also understand this initiative somehow indirectly as something that will be a system of our further efforts.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u166	Thank you so much for the answer. And for good reason, considering putting this mental sport, as you said, into the system, in the criteria for Zois' scholarship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! It is estimated that about 5,000 people depend on insulin in Slovenia. Research has shown that using the modern technology of the so-called CGM, the real closed loop system, the cost of people with insulin dependence on diabetes are decreasing and public insurance companies in the European Union are enabling access to these technologies regardless of the age of the patient or the patient and regardless of the cause of the disease. In Slovenia, about 130 people suffer from type 1 diabetes. This number is only an assessment as no register is established for adult patients and therefore no precise data can be obtained. The profession estimates that about 3,000 people live with SBT1 in Slovenia. Patients and patients with this type of diabetes need at least three doses of fast insulin and at least one dose of long insulin or pump regardless of the original cause of the disease and regardless of age. In Slovenia, about 70 children and adolescents suffer from SBT1 on an annual basis, a total of almost 700 in this group. Of these, 92% use modern technology such as the CGM method to treat them. We believe that in the Republic of Slovenia, the right of a child to quality health must not depend on the socio-economic status of the family in which the child is growing up, so in 2019 we addressed to the Minister of Health a parliamentary initiative to deal with this issue, which we later upgraded with a number of parliamentary questions. At the initiative of opposition colleagues, the Health Committee is at its 45th emergency meeting. 12. 2021 adopted conclusions imposing on the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Health Insurance Office, on the implementation of all necessary measures to establish the right to a closed loop system and the continuous measurement of subcutaneous glucose. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: When will you implement that decision of the Committee? Under what conditions and under which groups of Type 1 diabetes patients will you allow the right to a closed loop system under compulsory health insurance? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Marko Koprivc! You have noted one important question, since Type 1 diabetes is one of the most vulnerable chronic groups, it is true that chronic disease groups, because type 1 diabetes is generally affecting patients suddenly and is then life-threatening and is life-threatening from the start of treatment with insulin. As has been said, binding decisions were adopted by the Committee on Health at its 45th emergency meeting, which I can say are realised, while the first two are in effect, third, and are expected to be realized at the end of April or early May. Let me explain, on 26 February this year, the Management Committee of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia approved the amendment of the Compulsory Health Insurance Regulation and the decision on health and other conditions governing the rights of persons to medical devices. And of course these rights also include the right of protected persons to an insulin pump. You asked who the groups will be allowed these rights to. The fact is that the conditions for the eligibility of the insulin pump or this type of treatment lay down the profession so that I was taught and I was told that for the children's area this was agreed and coordinated with experts from the Pediatric Clinic UKC Ljubljana and for adults with the Internal Clinic UKC Ljubljana. To all of whom, of course, the profession has indicated, this treatment will be provided in accordance with these conditions, and this is, of course, a non-remunerated treatment. Of course, now, as I said, the matter is not yet realized, the procedure is not closed. The new Compulsory Health Insurance Regulation, together with the Decision, will be dealt with in rule 18. 3rd year at the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Of course, then this confirmed novel will be confirmed by the Minister and will be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the timeline we have now, this is expected to be the end of April or at the latest in early May 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer. In a way, I'll say I'll take your word for it. I've written down these dates and I hope that things will be real by then. I would like to point out once again that this new technology of the so-called closed loop system really makes life easier for Type 1 diabetes patients. Especially in children, this is so important that they do not always need to be sprayed with sugar and so on. That the simple system itself works and in some ways makes it really easy for them, and also in some ways increases the quality of their lives and security itself. Dear Minister, I hope that by then this decision of the committee will be realized. If not, I will ask you again and also use other means to make this matter come true. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Minister, you want a word? No, no, no. So thank you. We're moving on. Ambassador Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojsa. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u174	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister! On Tuesday, February 23rd, you and your colleagues visited Krška and looked at a five-story state building on the road of karst victims 55a. The facility has been empty and decaying since 2011, when the Police Administration Krško was unduly abolished or withdrawn in Posavje. All the time since I was elected as a Member, I have warned at the meetings of the competent committees and at the meetings of the National Assembly of the damage being done at the facility; and in particular of the grave error that has been made by the abolition of such an important institution. Today, I have data that does not support the economic argument which is supposed to be the main reason for the Libra programme, under which the current Prime Minister Borut Pahor and Minister Katarina Kresal abolished our police administration. It was a political decision – the weakening of the Posavia region – and the interest of the neighbouring region to fill a newly built building for which they did not have content. As I have explained in this house, Posavia has more strategically important facilities in its territory than any other region in the country. In addition to nuclear and five hydro power plants and military airports, there are also over 60 kilometres of Schengen border with the largest railway and many road border crossings. What this meant was that you could follow up in 2015 when hundreds of thousands of migrants went through our places. As I am aware that, at least in the short term, it is unrealistic to expect the return of the police administration to Krka, at the end of last year I welcomed your information on the possibility of placing the border or border police headquarters in that building. Dear Minister, I ask you: What were your team's conclusions on the site? When can we expect to get a seat for the police department for the southern border in Krška? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! Hold what you've stated. The fact is that at the time of Interior Minister Katarina Kresal was implemented the Libra project, which not only terminated the police administration in Krskem, but also abolished the police administration in Postojna and police administration in Slovenj Gradc. Of course, after so many years alone, I cannot determine whether this decision was right or wrong. In any event, it is necessary to attach in some part the indications that this decision was made on the basis of the professional grounds introduced in the Police. The indisputable fact is that all of these places, i.e. Slovenia Gradec, Postojna and Krško, lost this administration; but not only administration, but also a certain number of people who were employed there, and of course also emptying or reducing the number or needs of spaces. I have already announced or announced this in the past year, in fact, at my hearing session in the National Assembly, that I intend to set up a highway police force as a unit that will be equivalent to the units of police administrations. And we did it with reorganisation or new systemization last year. And this system is already in place. One of the things we did last year is, of course, a new unit that will not only have a seat in Ljubljana, but a new unit to control the state border, I myself predicted that the seat of this new unit would be in Krk. Somehow I have taken my stand or advocated that all of these places – that is, Postojna, Kršek, we may find something else in Slovenj Gradc – return to the presence of police officers in a larger number; though perhaps for some other tasks and less bureaucratic but so much more operational. Also, your information that we've been looking into the matter holds true. I am pleased, honourable Member, that you, too, along with Mr Lisco and the mayors, were able to find the time and visit this place. As you know, it's a five-story facility that's been empty for quite a few years, relatively in bad shape. We could've seen it. However, we can also make sure that the value of that investment forecast, which was estimated at more than a million or a million and a half euros to be invested in this facility, should we want to make the complex facility energy efficient if we want to replace all the building furniture and so on, perhaps so high. But, of course, I do, we could also see on the ground that there is no such need if only the most necessary maintenance works are done in these rooms, which could provide some decent office space and thus, of course, satisfy the appropriate level of residence for all those who would be there. So the decision is that we will surely place something in these objects. At this point alone, it's hard to say anything else. As you know, I had already announced to you and to all the mayors that we would make some design mini-check, what amounts should be invested in this facility in order to be fit to move in. I'm counting on us to do this in a relatively short time, which means a good month, a month and a half. But I would like to say in advance that there will be no later ill will, including that date that we agreed on at that time, to say, from 1 Corinthians 1: 4. People can already live there; it is probably not feasible. I myself have talked about that it is somehow feasible until the end of this year, that is, including these censuses, including the most urgent maintenance parts and, of course, including slowly starting to fill this unit. It is important to know that at this point we do not have all the officers who could enter this unit at our disposal; however, there is a great deal of possibility, or there will be a lot of possibility, if there is a scenario that is relatively close or will be on the table very soon, and this is Croatia's entry into the Schengen area. In this case, however, several police officers could be drawn from the border to the back, which does not mean, of course, that we will not control our southern borders from the back, given that we have seen several times in the past that controls on the Croatian-Serbian border or on the Croatian-Bosnian border are not appropriate. Although this will be our internal border, we will still have to exercise tighter controls at the internal border of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u178	Dear Minister! I thank you for this answer and thank you for your decision. Indeed, the implementation of the forecast of the seat of the supervisory police for the southern border in Krk is important for a number of reasons. Firstly, the facility, which is owned by the State, will be saved from further deterioration. In doing so, let me say that in Krsak we had an abandoned home of elderly citizens, the owner of which was the country. He had been empty for so long that despite the congregation’s constant calls, he had failed to the point of arranging single or social housing. Secondly, the renovation and settlement of this facility will also be small, but an important contribution to the reviving of the old city core, which has been quite empty in recent years, and the life pulses give it mainly to immigrant families of foreigners. Thirdly, I will not again explain the problems that our firefighters have after the abolition of the police administration in the event of traffic accidents and also the citizens themselves. The presence of the police is actually important for the safety of citizens, but it also gives a sense of security, particularly in the area, mostly inhabited by critical infrastructure facilities, and in particular is constantly under the influence of migrants. Fourthly, acquiring a border police seat means also at a symbolic level that the state not only takes the periphery but also gives it back or returns. The establishment of the South Border Police Authority in Krk together with the recently announced relocation of the headquarters of the Agency for Radioactive Waste (ARAO) means concrete evidence that the current government understands the need for the decentralisation of Slovenia. Minister, that is why I really hope that the predictions will be realized and I thank you in advance for your understanding. I also thank Tomaž Lisco for his support in pointing out this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Minister, is there anything else you'd like to add to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I am pleased that local authorities were also present at this meeting, if I may say so, both mayors, Mayor of Krske and Mayor Brežic. It must also be said here that all these decisions, which would contribute to the restoration of this facility, must also take into account what has not been resolved for several years. That is why I will propose or have proposed for the last time that an object owned by the public authorities should also be placed on the table and that the administration of the unit. I will propose to Minister Koritnik that, in fact, we do some business here with the congregation or appropriate replacement, especially because I have been informed that the congregation itself or certain municipal structures, I think it is a social work centre or something like that, but it rents some relatively expensive space in another part of Krsek from a bank. You agree with yourself that in some way all the premises or all the property of the country, including in cooperation with the local community, are being used in full. By the way, the municipality does not charge anything at this time for the stay of the administrative unit, but I think it is right that things are also arranged at this formal level and that, if the state is already renting or the municipality is renting, it will help one another, either the municipality to the State or vice versa. And somehow let's not let those spaces that were built with our common money go to waste, contrary to the fact that, in pronunciations, we are furtive with some private institutions that give out spaces for fat rents either to the state or to the municipal authorities. However, we will keep you informed of all activities in the coming months. However, I will be very happy if it is not within these local communities, because we must be honest to say that there is also a few competitions between all the mayors here, and that all the mayors involved at this point will also have some common consensus that it is right. Because I don't want us to end up having a competition, who has better assets or who has better connections in the ministry, who eventually wins. I want things to be balanced. Finally, we have been able to balance these things relatively well with the resources that we divided into a larger number of congregations in the past year, all those at the southern border.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Ambassador Gregor Perič will ask the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! My question is mainly focused on the question of digitisation as such. We've been talking a lot about digitisation lately, and we all have our mouths full. However, I am interested in a purely concrete project, a call that is under way, if I am well aware, at the Ministry of Public Administration and is primarily intended, as I understand, for a local level. As it has been said, there has also been a lot of talk on decentralisation as such in the previous question. The current health situation has shown us much more how important it is that individual technologies, as well as the general way in which individual systems work, should be the municipalities, or, if we go down a scale lower or higher, the authorities in the congregation, or the cooperation between the congregation and the country, how this works, how, in some ways, we take advantage of the technological possibilities available to us – the databases, the Internet, things. I am interested in this public call for demonstration projects for the establishment of smart cities and communities, to which, if I have the right information, we have waited almost three years for: What is the central purpose, what do you want to achieve at the Ministry of Public Administration with it? What substantive areas does this project, or invitation to tender, also address? Where do you see this added value for the Slovenian municipalities, how can the congregations sign up for this invitation as such? What is the financial structure of this project? If we look a little abroad, such processes and similar projects are a lot of evasive practices. I have looked, for example, Germany is also very generous in the financial sense in this area, so that practices develop. I want to know more about what our congregations can actually promise from this address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u184	Thank you, Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! Thank you very much for this question, Mr Peric. In efforts to transform Slovenia digitally, local environments are the most suitable to create partnerships, develop competences, generate and, of course, use these new data sources, invest in digital infrastructure and digitally solve problems of local communities. Our mantra is that with the broad use of digital technologies, cities and communities can become smart and thus ensure some sustainable development that is in step with the challenges of time; at the same time, they also have a positive impact on growth and prosperity in the country. This call will give municipalities or municipalities the opportunity to develop, establish, test, and disseminate digital services or solutions in several areas. We have somehow developed some of these, such as areas, areas, areas within the call for proposals, where virtually any smart solution belongs, such as resource and infrastructure management, environmental care, healthy and active life, mobility, logistics and transport, culture, sport and tourism, security and protection. There are, of course, horizontal topics such as inclusion, codecision, a smart city ecosystem. However, this may be included, but it must be in relation to the remaining substantive areas or at least one of the above. What do we think the congregations, or especially the citizens, will gain? This call will provide some new services that will undoubtedly raise their quality of life, and we are pursuing this. The municipalities will be able to perform their functions better. It is very important that these projects have an obligation or obligation to share anonymised data on the Open Data Portal, in order to accelerate what you yourself have mentioned, the data economy; this means, of course, that new solutions can be created on the basis of these data. By a single approach, i.e. up-down, we somehow establish or ensure interoperability, which is extremely important for individual solutions within the congregation to be able to communicate with each other, in connotations. This is what we want to guide and encourage Slovenian IT, i.e. the information technology industry, so that new solutions can be linked to each other and using OASC standards, says Open & Agile Smart Cities, also suitable for the European market. There are several positive externalities to this invitation to tender. In terms of technical details, therefore, consortia of Slovenian municipalities consisting of at least four municipalities in the same NUTS 3 region may be applied to the invitation to tender. However, we made an exception because there are only three congregations in the Sava region, so the Sava region is considered to have at least three municipalities in the consortium. We are decommissioning EUR 8 million, but the size of the projects reported is between EUR 300,000 and EUR million. However, this is the first of the potentially additional invitations to tender, but there is already a very strong interest in this stage when we announced the invitation to tender. And he's been, like you said, three years since it was predicted that this would happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Andre Zabrett will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Brickler King. The minister's gone. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, first of all, I would like to say that I am aware that the Minister is not with us. And in this place, he and the two State Secretaries would also like to recover as soon as possible. Nevertheless, I decided to ask a question. Not so much because of the answer itself, but because of drawing attention to a particular problem, especially the problem of hearing the parents of children with rare diseases. We need to discuss this and find appropriate solutions to the problem they are facing. Yesterday we celebrated the World Day of Rare Diseases, and on this day, the Association of Viljem Julian to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and addressed the Members of the National Assembly with an initiative to increase partial payment for lost income due to care and child protection. In LMŠ we are aware of the pressures faced by parents of children with rare diseases. However, the Coronavirus epidemic only further exacerbated the situation. We know that rare diseases are mostly incurable, often fatal. Parents, on the other hand, make a noble dedication to these children. They are cared for night and day, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and 365 days a year. As a result, they often leave their jobs, which means they give up their income. It is also important to remember that caring for a child with rare diseases also brings higher costs – health material, tools, therapy, medicines. The parents of these children therefore face a loss of income on the one hand and a higher cost on the other. In Slovenia, in these cases we know the Institute of Partial Payment for Loss of Income received by either parent or other person when leaving the labour market or starting to work shorter hours than full time due to child care and protection; and it is set at EUR 734 gross or only EUR 580 net. This is the amount of the minimum wage from 2010, which is absolutely too low. He has no sick leave, no regression, and no working hours. This is certainly unfair and we must urgently correct such injustices. That is why I call on the government to listen to the initiative of society. I also welcome the announced changes that I expect to be on the table soon and to resolve together the problem faced by parents of children with rare diseases, in order to raise the partial payment for lost income at least to the minimum wage level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Just a question. Do you want an oral response at your next meeting or do you want a written reply?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u188	I'd like to ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u189	Good. Thank you very much. Ambassador Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, my question concerns the withdrawal of the daily Anne Frank from the curriculum of Slovenian schools. And I will begin with a quote from my colleague, the marketing director and writer, who recently passed Mark Sosic, who was at the international literary festival Vilenica on the question of the power of literature on the vulnerable and wounded, as he himself wrote, and I will quote: "In raising awareness and describing new generations we are witnessing the destruction of the foundations of the educational system, the relativisation of the spirit, the cultural, humanistic dimension of man, knowledge. Deleting all of this is a terrible thing. And whoever encourages him obviously wants to have as stupid a man as possible with whom he can do what he likes. The book – be it classic, electronic or whatever – is a contribution to awareness of our time and the danger of repeating history.”And it is precisely because of this fact that we were so shaken by the news at the time of the victims of the Holocaust and the raising of extremely right-wing neo-Nazi ideas that the book Diary of Anne Frank is no longer during compulsory reading in schools. This diary of a girl, hidden from her 13th to 15th years in a dark attic room, wrote to her imaginary friend Kitty, hidden from the Nazis who served her and her family only because she belonged to the Jewish community. A young woman thinks very maturely about life and dreams of freedom and a better future; but unfortunately her betrayal stops her life course and ends up as an innocent victim in the furnaces of Auschwitz concentration camp. And today, in support of the book, a group of benevolent people from different winds will have a premiere of the video book, which will offer the book to everyone, without exception, who are interested in seeing it. And even today, on March 1st, all libraries rent books, all copies. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor Minister: Will you return the book The Journal of Anne Frank, which is also on Unesco’s World Heritage List, to the Curriculum, where it has been a compulsory reading since 1975, since students can then learn through the spectrum of many parallel messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs Tomić, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, as you know, this is a professional issue first. And so it is because it must not become, for the reasons you yourself have stated, a political issue. Let me also freshen this up a little bit or repeat how this decision, or this state of affairs that you are now exposing, has developed professionally. They read and deal with the texts set out in the curriculum in schools. In this case, learn a plan for Slovenian. And this curriculum was based on a proposal by the authors of the curriculum, these are academic experts, advisors to the Institute of Education and Teachers of the Republic of Slovenia. And this updated curriculum, which was prepared in 2018, was then reviewed by the Professional Council for General Education and confirmed as subject of Slovenian. In this curriculum, it was decided that the list of selected texts should no longer be added, since this choice is now left to the professional autonomy of teachers, precisely to address fewer texts and these texts in greater depth. However, the content and objectives of the curriculum remain exactly the same. The increased selection of texts is one of those factors that, according to the evaluation of the professions, contribute significantly to the greater motivation of students to read while also giving the necessary professional autonomy to teachers. The mandatory texts in this 2018 curriculum are exactly the same as in the previous 2011 curriculum. Therefore, this curriculum no longer contains a list of proposed selection texts, but, as it is said, the choice of texts is left to teachers, teachers, who must also respect certain criteria – from the quality of texts to the kind and type of content diversity, the appropriateness of texts for the reading stage of students and students, and individual differences between them. And the following facts. The diary Anne Frank is still frequently considered text in primary school and also in previous curricula 2011 and 1998, when it was not defined as compulsory text, but among the ten proposed texts, among which teachers were selected autonomously. So, despite this diversity today, related to the arguments that I have presented to you, the daily Anne Frank is still very often the text or book that teachers give to students for reading. In a way, I understand that this also confirms your information, which I did not know, that now all copies in Slovenian libraries are also rented. However, as a second fact, I would also like to point out that the teachers of the Slovenian Institute of Education, the profession and ourselves propose to mark the memory of the victims of the Holocaust in schools in a way that reminds children and young people in particular, including by witnessing passages from surviving campers or passages, especially from this book, the daily Anne Frank, and of course in accordance with the guidelines for teaching about the Holocaust. In this light, let me also show this translation prepared by the Slovenian Institute of Education. In 2019 it was published by the International Holocaust Remembrance Association, and we practically immediately translated it into Slovenian language. It is also available on the website of the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia and you can also see through the list or index of content how this content is intended. And allow me to take advantage of these few more seconds and quote myself to Dr. Igor Sakside's recent statement on this very subject. We know that the media issue has already been very resounding. He said to Dr. Saksida, quote: “I think it’s easy to calm down here with passion, clean up pens, computers and microphones, and trust the profession. But why would any of the serious researchers of education and education the Diary of Anne Frank forbid – especially in these times.”
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u194	Minister, you could have said everything you said yourself. I followed the responses myself, and, unfortunately, I did not expect a more innovative response. When you talk about the profession, you talk about education as if it was an open-heart operation. Education is a secondary socialization process in which through the areas concerned, such as history, psychology, ethics, biology, language and so on, the student is internal and in particular values that become a way of life. And this book specifically opens up a whole range of non-war-related subjects to the Holocaust. We can compare the life of a teenager then and today, allowing for a series of critical reflections on betrayal, on collegiality, authority, moral values and so on. In short, I just want to say this to you because I don't have much time; and I regret it. You speak of the profession, I always respect the profession, but in education they must have certain guidelines. The answer of the teacher of Slovenian language and history is: “At the same time, it bothers me most that the killing of Jews must not be forgotten, but Slovenian genocide must not be mentioned or so is an ideological topic. This is all I want to say to you that everything that is outside our country is worth all the attention, but what has happened to us during and after the war is an ideology that we only touch in history." She's putting herself specifically on the side of the traitor Franks. And I'm sorry, that's the kind of profession we're forced to trust. I'm terrible. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education also gave a whole bunch of answers to the Union of Fighters, what they are doing against the Holocaust. It is interesting that at the end of the day, the gentleman will sign, which will be mentioned twice in between. And as Ana Frank says — What has happened cannot be fixed; but we can prevent it from happening again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like to complete your response? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, I couldn't agree more with you than I do. I guess we both read Anne Frank's diary. Both my children read this book, not because we should, but because we talked a lot about it at home. And in the first place, they did it because it was some kind of educational moment that started at home, not even at school. And it began with what you yourself point out that it must have zero tolerance and the voice of history also in the curricula in the present; where we must talk about all forms of intolerance, diversity, crimes against humanity. We're talking about the Holocaust, we're talking about a lot of things that talk about genocide, interwar killings, postwar killings, human rights violations. We'll have to start reading, those who haven't yet, about the hate speech, about the systematic propaganda of lies. These are all negatives and there are books on all of this, including very good, excellent books by our domestic authors and authors, to start with Boris Pahor and continue with Drago Jančar and so on. All these works must be given adequate attention, and I believe that they are represented and addressed in schools by teachers and teachers after their professional salary and appropriate development of pupils, students and students.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Yes, my procedural proposal is to hold a debate on this. I agree that children must deal with fewer texts and these in greater depth. But here I think that you, as a minister or ministry, could give more concrete guidance, because then one primary school deals with one material, the other, then they're in high school and they have different worlds. And then there's these knocks of worlds that aren't the best. And just through the book The Journal of Anne Frank we can deal with a lot of things, not just the Holocaust, but also chauvinism, ethnic cleansing, democracy, child rights, what poverty meant at the time, what it meant today, what it meant to be the parent-child relationship then and so on. Much of this is through one work that could be dealt with. And you know, the whole world, not just Slovenia, then grew on the basis of victory over fascism and the anti-fascist alliance of the United Nations in the fight against Nazism and fascism in World War II. And here our conviction should be perfectly clear. And any doubt about such a thing should really be unacceptable, because if we want to learn something from history and if we do not learn it, we are forced to experience it again, that is clear. And why again I think it's completely wrong, I'm going to say what deleted the diary of Anne Frank; you know, when we went to school, we read a lot. We had to read Cankar. We had to read Presherno's Voranco and Presherno's. But we didn't like it back then. Now I understand him, then I didn't. And through the mouth of a generation of girls as old as those of our growing children, it is much easier to identify themselves with the way you think, feel and also with the problem, than if you tell me how much you work on the Holocaust and how some scary conferences your representative attends when you held a meeting in Italy in 2018, and you advocated a report on work and such things. This, sorry, does not help our young people to form their attitude toward the world. And all the holocaust conferences don't help. Even before World War II, world leaders met and talked about the danger of Hitler, Nazism, fascism; nothing was done. But when raising children, we should really be much more careful, so I think there is an urgent need for a debate on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Alexander Reberšek will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u200	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. I also welcome the well-respected Minister of Finance. Various social stakeholders have been engaged in the issue of placement and construction of the 3rd development axis for more than a decade. This raises the question of the economic viability of the investment. The question arises whether the investment, as currently planned, is proportionate to the benefit that the construction of the fast road should bring to the region and beyond in Slovenia. During this time, there is also an audit of the project in the Court of Auditors. The revision aims to deliver an opinion on the effectiveness of project 3 of the development axis from 2015 to 2020, as well as an opinion on the effectiveness of the spatial design of project 3 of the development axis from 2015 to 2020. The decision to confirm the investment programme for the 3rd Development Axis, the north section of the northern part from Velenje south to Slovenj Gradec south, shows the investment value of 809 million 811 thousand 724.57 euros, representing 47.63 million euros per kilometre. Due to a similar configuration of the terrain both in the northern part of the northern section of Velenje South–Slovenia Gradec and in the southern part of the northern part of the 3rd development axis Velenje South–Sentrupert there are estimates that the value of the investment for a kilometer of built fast road will be similar. The question of the economic eligibility of the north section of the 3rd development axis is raised. The latter is based on a document from the Noveliation of the Transport Model for the entire area of influence runs the 3rd development axis from Austria to the A1 motorway. I also sent you a conclusion, page 57, the manufacturer is PNZ, d. o.o., from 2016, which you received in the annex. The price of the southern part of the north section of the 3rd development axis from Velenje south to Šentrupert, this is route F2-2, has changed throughout all stages of placement. In the 2008 version study of Urbis, d.o.o., the investment value is EUR 198 million and something else. I also sent this to you in the annex: Construction costs – Section F2 and F6. With the adoption of the proposal for a DNN F2-2 plan, the investment value amounted to EUR 308 million, but did not cover all costs; in the annex: Explanation of the price of the Ministry of Environment and Space. In view of the above, I am interested in: Are you assessing that project 3 of the development axis, as set out, is economically justified? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, distinguished Alexander Reberšek, for this question. In this regard, I would like to reply to what belongs to you, which falls within the framework of the Ministry of Finance. And here I have to say from the outset that the powers and work of the Ministry of Finance in this area are at stake, minimal or very limited. Project 3 of the development axis is a project implemented by investor Dars, d. d. Also Dars, d. d., implements all placement procedures and prepares all project and investment documentation. Investments in transport infrastructure fall under the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure, under which the expert committee also operates, namely the Commission for the review and assessment of investment documentation for State roads, public railway infrastructure, aviation and maritime services. It is said that this commission also deals with the section of this road. This Commission shall act in accordance with the Regulation on the methodology for the preparation and treatment of investment documentation in the field of public roads and public railway infrastructure and shall be established to verify the conformity of the documentation produced with the rules, the correctness of the indicators calculated and the evaluation on the basis of the criteria laid down in this Regulation. Thus, the Commission, within the Ministry of Infrastructure, is also responsible for reviewing and assessing the pre-investment design, investment design, investment programme and innovation of the investment programme. The Ministry of Finance is not aware of the audit of the Court of Auditors and has not been included, as the auditors are the Ministry of Infrastructure on efficiency in the management of the 3rd Development Axis project and the Ministry of Environment and Space on efficiency in spatial project planning. The Ministry of Finance is not even the holder of the guarantee law — the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of 2TKK, d.o.o., on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of the second railway track of Divac-Koper and for Dars d.d. liabilities, on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance the construction of part 3 of the development axis. For this reason, I also mention the guarantee law, because one part also relates to the construction of the 3rd development axis. However, once again, the Ministry of Finance has cooperated in the framework of cross-cutting coordination and has also provided guidance on the mandatory content of the guarantee law and compliance with the constitutional requirement for the determination or determination of the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. The law itself is within the power and is also prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure. From what I have said, it also follows that the Ministry of Finance is not included in the validation of project or investment documentation. As a result of this direct response to whether or not it is an economically justified construction, it is simply on the basis of these data held by the Ministry and on the basis of these legal bases that I have listed, I cannot provide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question, Comrade Reberšek? Yes, you do. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u204	Thank you very much. If I present to you the document Identification of the investment project – the road between Austria and A1, which states: the preliminary assessment of the socio-economic eligibility account and the comparison of the treatment variants from the study of the variants of the road connection of the region of Koroška with AC A1, the construction-technical part, from PNG, d.o.o., which shows that the construction of the road connection of the region to the A1 motorway on route 1 is economically justified and gives significantly better results than the construction of the link under any of the other options under consideration. I'm talking about route 3 of the development axis with connection to Arja village. I hope you haven't misunderstood my question, but I'm kind of thinking with a healthy farmer. Even though the Minister of Infrastructure is in charge of choosing the route, what they have already done in the past, it comes to the fore when setting up the route, when changing the route, because there is no hearing about changing the route. But I'm still thinking, like I said, with a healthy farmer's brain. Why build expensive and long when we can build quickly and say cheaper?Oh, my God! Finally, it is important how much this project will cost us. I want to know: Where is the economic justification here? What is optimisation of route F2 if we go on a more expensive route? We would like to build 28 infrastructure facilities, 6 tunnels and 11 double viaducts in this country. That's not normal. For example, if we have built a highway in our country, which has a runway of an average of 9 million per kilometer, this road will end up costing us more than 50 million per kilometer. However, if we look only at the case of the viaduct Ravbarcomand, maintenance is also important. Ravbarkomanda pri Postojna is one of the most demanding buildings on the Slovenian highway cross. So far, 21 million have been earmarked for the rehabilitation of both viaducts, and the construction of new ones would cost us 35 million euros. So I ask myself, or I ask you: What's your personal opinion? Is the route of the 3rd development axis economically justified by the connection to Šentrupert?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I don't really have a second opinion than what I've read, and I can't give it either. I'm having a hard time commenting on all this data. The Ministry of Finance certainly also sees efficiency. In the context of these investments, of course, other environmental, placement, environmental, investment design, programme and so on should also be considered. And here is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure. I also gave you the legal basis on which the Special Commission assesses this; and it also assesses, as I understand, the Court of Auditors. I certainly cannot go into the evaluation procedures, nor can I give them, because I think it must be assessed independently and independently by those who actually assess it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Ambassador Boris Doblekar will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Although I wanted to ask the Minister a question about Petrol, where the co-owner state is also concerned with renters at the Petrol pumps. Many who have so far had leases on these premises have all paid fixed costs or throughout the epidemic, in short, all contractual obligations, and then, after what they sent me, they have lost their contracts or some have given up because they have paid so many months of rent and everything else; and they have somehow withdrawn from these contracts. Petrol reportedly then issued a new invitation to tender for these tenants. Of course, I hope and suggest that they go against those tenants who have paid so far and have not been able to use it. I know that when Petrol was injured during the epidemic, he had less income, especially in fuel. However, it is necessary to say, at least as we have seen, that the petrol pumps were constantly full and sold so much more. I don't think there should be any bigger problem here. Next thing you know, there's a crowning bonus. I wanted to ask: How are those coronations on Petrol? Did employees who work on petrol pumps directly with customers, i.e. with people, in the immediate vicinity, receive any coronation that I think they earn very much? And if these supplements have not been paid, as I have received information, of course I also suggest to Petrol that this matter be corrected and that workers be paid this allowance. And the next thing is what happened, which I also got a lot of calls and messages about. When the minimum wage rose when workers received the minimum wage, they simply lost their allowance for business or sales performance. And of course, I don't think it's fair either, it's wrong if she raised the minimum wage, or not too much, but it's still that workers lose this allowance for sales or business performance. And I suggest that this allowance remains for the employees too, so some stimulation for their work, even though the minimum wage has been raised. But please answer me orally. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We will include this request for an answer in the next meeting. Ambassador Tina Heferle will ask the Minister of Justice an oral question. Lilliani Kozlovich. There's no message, so let's move on. Ambassador Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question. I suggest we wait a minute, because now it's turning a little faster. Minister, you're free. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. We'll continue at 4:57. (The sitting was suspended at 16.52 and resumed at 16.53.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u210	We can proceed. The Minister's coming. Ambassador Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question. Here you go, pal. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would like to see the suspension of supplementary health insurance delayed only as long as the Minister has missed this meeting. Unfortunately, it's not a situation. By abolishing supplementary health insurance, we have been facing residents and residents in this country for two decades. Let me remind you, this is also the point around which the then Marjan Sarca coalition broke down. Of course, the issue of supplementary health insurance was one of the key issues that we put forward to the new Minister of Health. Unfortunately, we did not receive a concrete response to the hearing, so when the National Assembly considered his candidacy. We have only received information that Mr Minister is committed to reforming the supplementary health insurance and not to abolish it. This may not seem so problematic at first sight if the same breath does not include information that the Minister takes a position on how to redefine the basic basket of rights. This illustrates a very problematic future for Slovenian public health. A future in which there will be little of this public health care. However, the coverage of health costs would be transferred from the solidarity public treasury to commercial health insurance companies. Precisely those who are now making supplementary health insurance. And we would get less solidarity services and more pay, potentially even self-payment, the Slovenian health system would get closer to what we're looking at in the United States. Complementary health insurance is a non-solid tax; it is an unfair tax for which we all contribute equally, regardless of whether someone has a minister's salary, or whether someone has the same salary as I have in my own post, if someone is a well-paid manager, or on the other hand goes to fight 400, 500 euros of pension, works for a minimum wage or anything like that. That is why we believe in Levica that supplementary health insurance needs to be abolished; 50 million Euros of funds, as far as is currently left at unjustified costs of insurance companies, must be transferred to the public health system. That's why, Minister, my question: How exactly would supplementary health insurance reshape what exactly would they do?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Miha Kordish! Complementary health insurance, according to the legal standards, is a fact which, in all other respects, is also important in the functioning of this moment of the healthcare system. Of course, the most important part is the financial part or the source of the financing it brings. Every change in this area needs to be carefully considered, for the financing of our health care is stable regardless. A lack of discretion in this area can, of course, distract this fact, so we need to be careful here. It should also be borne in mind that we are at the time of the epidemic, that the economic downturn is a reality and that a smaller collection of revenues is therefore expected at the Institute of Health Insurance by contributions. So at this point in time, I don't see the termination of the supplementary insurance as options. It makes sense to reshape this insurance and to put in place mechanisms to better regulate this area from the point of view of healthcare regulation. That's for sure. In Slovenia, in 2019 the premiums collected in the non-life insurance segment represented 23.3% and slightly more than half a billion euro. This is a source that cannot be easily replaced. As far as the epidemic is concerned, of course we know that supplementary health insurance has been paid, although the scope of health services has not been the same as it would have been if there had not been an epidemic. It is clear that the funds collected for supplementary health insurance have not been fully used. Therefore, we plan to meet with insurance management in the following days to agree on which programmes and how these funds can be used for further accessibility or accessibility to Slovenian health care. And of course, in the first place here for sustainable waiting species, and even more important are other effects on this segment, it is meant to reduce the hospital absence in segments that may be more important or strongly affect waiting species on this segment. We've got a lot of challenges ahead of us here. Both, both what Mr Kordish has instructed, and others, to try, of course, these funds properly and fully and to make the most of it, in order to return to health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u214	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, chairman. The lowest pension was EUR 246 in December last year and the lowest pension for 40 years was around EUR 555 in the whole of last year. This pension was granted to 55,000 pensioners. At the same time, the President of the Board of the Mutuals received only prizes of EUR 66,000 in 2019, in addition to a gross salary of around EUR 10 000. What do all these people have in common? Aleš Mikilna or a doctor from Maribor who recently enjoyed the safari in Namibia can also be added to the kit. All, regardless of their income, pay supplementary insurance at the same amount. The examples of the pensioners I have mentioned do not hope to apply for a protective allowance because they are afraid that the state will sit on their property, go for packages on the Red Cross and then pay the rates of EUR 35 for supplementary health insurance. Mr. Minister, I asked you: What exactly is hiding behind your formulation that supplementary insurance needs to be redesigned? In all the minutes of your response, I've heard basically just a reminder to reshape the supplementary insurance, for which there can be a lot of hiding, so that better regulation is needed. I am very specifically interested because people's lives are very concrete at stake: How exactly would you reshape supplementary health insurance? Are we talking about compulsory insurance – basket A, basket B, where basket A is covered by the Department of Health Insurance and basket B and commercial health insurance? Of course, basket B is the one that is viable, basket A is not; and below the line are the patients who are worse. I therefore ask for a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. Surely it is in the right direction, as you said, because the fact is that we all want equal conditions. And it is only in this way that it is fair or proper to talk about competitiveness or improvement on behalf of all. As for the transformation itself, of course, it is a great challenge for us to define first what a basket is, because we can be happy and proud that this moment represents this universally accessible health care. But the fact is that the demographic picture shows that this form, of course, is not infinitely sustainable, but will require smaller and – hopefully – no greater structural change, so that we can continue to allow health care or health care for all the people who need it. And of course today I cannot give a final answer to your question about what will be in basket B and what will be in basket A. The fact is that this scope dictates the availability of funds at the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, whose participation or bag is filled with contributions. And out of this, of course, is financed by our health care. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u218	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u219	Thank you. In fact, I did not intend to make a procedural proposal because I expected the Minister to remain in his reply at the level of generality with which he has so far been guided by political issues and questions of priority in Slovenian health. But if I understood the second part of his answer correctly, I was quite shaken by what I heard, and it was frightening. Because, if I understand correctly, we have just received confirmation of a very specific consideration that the compulsory health insurance, which is now covered by the public health treasury, is being broken down into two baskets. Basket A — those harder interventions that are not profitable, for which the country pays heavily — is to be covered by the state. Basket B — interventions that are not so difficult to make very quickly — would be carried into the hands of commercial health insurance companies. I do hope that I did not understand the Minister and his answer correctly. Because if it endures what I have just taken, it is a frontal attack on all the foundations of Slovenian public health and we are discussing the privatisation of health through the crackdown of the public health treasury. I think we should do the opposite. And this is also some position that we consistently advocate in Levica. This is to expel from the health system legalised corruption, which are these and those forms of privacy. Complementary health insurance is one of these forms of commercial insurance, they provide supplementary insurance, which is based on taxes, you have to pay that rate for 35 euros if you want to have approximately serious health care in this country. And, of course, this tax is an unfair tax. Those who have a minimum wage, the pensioner who lives with 500 euros, will settle those 35 euros just as much as I do when I'm on a payday. And that's not fair. Strongly deviates from the leaders of solidarity health care and solidarity funding for health care. If anything, supplementary health insurance must be abolished and the difference brought in by making a fair change in the contribution rates that are already running into the public health treasury. And through further increased funding from the state to provide a personal physician for those 130 thousand people who don't have one right now. However, we must certainly not squander a basket of rights, and certainly we must not provide commercial health insurance companies with any additional business at the expense of human health. This is the health care we see on the other side of the pond. This is U.S. health, where half metaphorically, half people really die outside the hospital doors if they can't afford an intervention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Otherwise, if the proposal for a discussion is approved, we will be held at the next meeting. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Boštjan Koražija will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u221	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Minister Mr. Restoring, nice greeting! Unfortunately, on your resounding visit to this beautiful Prelekje visit Haloz, which somehow divorced or did not say much about it in the media and not much has been said about it in the media, which is a shame, because Haloze is as beautiful and as beautiful and generous as Prlekija. I know that you have also been to Podlachnik and have also discussed these problems of border areas in the light of the future financial perspective. It's also about the possibility of cooperation. I know that you have also been warned there that the problem is also in drawing on these European funds, because in Haloza we are always, unfortunately, repeatedly forgotten or the last on the line, as it is called. I will quote a fellow Member a little, who says twice: "Whoever first does, twice does. And I'll say, the Halozan are generous people, and whoever comes, you're always invited to come there. We also have a constant demographic problem in Haloza. Huge populations, even young ones, are evicted for their jobs and for a better way of life, as well as for the better future of their families. And even in this area where you have been, there is a very costly reduction in the number of people living in this area precisely because of the search for services and the better contribution of the family. And now I'm interested in the following: What exactly did your visit bring to Halozam? Is there anything else you can explain: What you have agreed or what is to happen in the future, or what is to happen in the future, for our Haloze. Next thing I know, What, in particular, in the field of operation of your ministry has so far taken place in this border area in the last year and a half? As you know, I think every year I have asked you a question about Haloz or Haloz development and the areas of Lower Podravje. And then there's the third question: How many additional jobs have you provided in this geographical area during your ministry in the Ministry of Economic Affairs since I know that the Minister of Economy is already the third mandate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Dear Member Boštjan Koražija, Honourable National Assembly, Chairman! Thank you for asking. I would like to be able to give you an exact answer to all these questions if you could give me a more specific description of these issues. First of all, I would like you all to be aware, together with me, that urgent economic measures cannot be systematically supported explicitly for any territorially defined area, and therefore not specifically for the Haloz area. Of course, the Haloz area is classified as a cross-border problem area for which systemic measures are envisaged; and regional projects also have the option of supporting regional development agreements. Today, I have also been responsible for this area in a similar manner to the honourable Members of the Union, Suzanne Lepi Šimenka. Once again, I would like to reiterate with regard to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's actions that our ministry will in principle continue to implement similar measures as it has already done. Emphasis will be placed on the promotion of economic activities and investments, the conservation and creation of jobs, the creation of an enabling business environment for businesses, including the establishment and management of business zones, activities for attracting strategic investments, border problems in the area and the promotion of measures to increase substantive and energy efficiency. If I just quickly summarise the existing measures for 2021 that we are already implementing as regular measures and also as additional measures adapted to the covida-19 epidemic. We are implementing a call for funding incentives to restart business operations in border areas – COVID-19 with a value of EUR 9.2 million for 2021, we are implementing a call for increased substantive and energy efficiency in tourism worth 16.5 million for 2021, we are conducting microcredit through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and the allocation of liquidity loans through the Slovenian Regional Development Fund, and we are planning a short notice of a public call for co-financing of investments and the creation of new jobs in border areas in the period from 2021 to 2022 with a total value of EUR 23 million, and we are also carrying out a number of other activities to promote coherent regional development towards the more polycentric development of Slovenia. As has already been said, if we were to ask me this exact question, I could tell you exactly what companies and how much resources we have specifically directed in this area and how many new jobs have been created. What did my visit represent? I met with all the mayors of Halo municipalities. True, it wasn't as ghastly as it was in Ormož, probably because I didn't even drink water in that area. But we have been very serious about this – and this is the key to what the government and the ministry advocates – that we must make sure that the border problems of the area at all four borders, which is in the south, east, north and west, develop. Today, we must ask ourselves who will live in these areas in ten years. And we, as a country, are obliged to create the conditions for these areas to be able to get a properly paid job, create a family and work a career. Otherwise, we will live in four, five cities in ten years; these areas will be empty. This is what these measures are intended to do to promote entrepreneurship in these areas. I have to say, however, that there are 90 municipalities in the region and that there are one fifth of all people living in Slovenia. And they live in such a sparsely populated area. We are therefore aware of the importance of this coherent regional development and of the problems of the displacement of young and prospective staff, so we have already committed and will continue to allocate resources according to various measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. Well, Minister, you have now said very well how many municipalities are actually included in these problems. And that is why I am interested in the matter, because even when we last spoke, you spoke about the integrated strategy of this area of Haloz or Lower Podravja. And I know that even under the circumstances of the Coronavirus, some things need to be written from the beginning. The promised tourism prospects that you have mentioned, and this area also hopes or wishes to be very active or presentable in the future. I hope this coronavirus is really over as soon as possible. And I'm interested in your past promises and those promises you made today: What do you see in terms of tourism or this tourism aspect, or do you intend to support or invest in this area; in particular, the Haloz or Lower Podravje area? Is it agricultural tourism now, is it sports tourism or this thing? In my opinion, you also spoke at these meetings, as mentioned earlier, without water, about the ideas or possibilities of these congregations in this area. I'm asking for an answer here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u227	First of all, we want to support what is there as a natural resource – the use of all natural food, including tourism. I'm not just thinking about wine here, but it's a wide range of options. Secondly, in Podlohnik we also said that this area has a very great advantage at the moment, because in the middle of Haloz there is a very busy highway connecting north and south. We have opportunities – not only for Haloze, but also for Ptuj – to obtain a huge number of guests, not only for domestic guests, but also for foreigners travelling across the area all year round. In particular, we already have a lot of resources. First of all, tourism is about increasing the material and energy efficiency of tourism. Implementation in 2019 was 2.7 million; 3.9 million in 2020; we plan 16.5 million in 2021. And 4.8 million in 2022. Not to be mistaken, this is not about Haloze, but it is about the borderline problems of areas whose important part is also Haloze. It is also about funding incentives to restart businesses in border areas of concern, namely 9.2 million in 2021. The call for co-financing of investments and the creation of new jobs in border areas in 2021, 2022 is worth €23.8 million; in 2021-8.3; and in 2022 15.5. And then the call for liquidity lending in problem areas, the contractor is the Slovenian Regional Development Fund and the beneficiaries of enterprises and institutions, totalling EUR 14 million in 2020 and an additional EUR 8 million in 2021. Microcredit, the contractor is the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the funds of €7.9 million in 2021. In addition, we have the possibility of granting regional state aid without a call for tender following the discretion of the public authority by a decision. We have €6 million reserved for this purpose. It is also about working in harmony with other ministries, agriculture, infrastructure, the environment and space in all these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u229	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In the end, the Minister has said very well, in fact, it is an integrated strategy, an economic or development strategy in this area. Even as I agree to decentralize the country and that this periphery is not only evolving, but also getting what it deserves, some kind of developmental momentum is being said, I propose that a debate be held on this subject in the National Assembly. At the same time, it would be great for all stakeholders to be here at that debate, as all ministers say, because when we talk about these integrated development strategies, it is right that everyone is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The question raised is for the minister, not for the government. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojsa. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, and all present in the hall! Slovenian police are the most important part of the security system in Slovenia as an organ of the Ministry of the Interior. Its task is to ensure the order and security of Slovenes and Slovenes. In the Ormož municipality, however, we are not witnessing security for our own citizens, but we are seeing literally the reconciliation and standing of the police over them. On the one hand, we have aggressive migrants who are increasingly untouchable, so I wonder if we are on the way to France and their no-go zones, and on the other hand the Slovenians who are hitting or hitting each other – whatever you want. You need to understand that in our small-border town of Ormož, citizens' incomes are much lower than in central Slovenia, so their constant punishment with zero tolerance and without warning is more significant. The police should be working for people, reminding them, maybe giving advice and protecting them. Mostly to protect in my opinion. While the citizens of Ormož Municipality have low remuneration, their new chief of police station has more than EUR 5,000 gross salary, so I believe that such fines are fines for him. In Ormož, there is also an increasing concentration of police controls, for example after four checks on a two-to-four-mile line, daily from morning to evening. Since this congregation is a home of beautiful nature and of Jerusalem’s mountains, its tourism economy is founded, such police control and police conduct in general will have a negative impact on the tourist activity of the congregation. Although I said "they will", this influence has been happening for a long time, or it gives a negative appeal to tourism. Cops also drive in civilian cars like they're undercover and like the sheriffs of some American movie are lighting lights and sirens and scaring citizens and citizens practically for banal offenses. Not to talk about hiding in chapels or anything. I am afraid that the inhabitants of Ormož will soon be torn apart, homely, or by any individual, and then we will have a disaster, Mr Minister, and then we will be wondering what was wrong. Let me also say that in Ormož, the movement against the police is already being prepared, so that these are not just different words, but the actual thinking of the local people. People are afraid to leave home because they're afraid of making a mistake in traffic and then we know what's coming next. In this regard, I ask you the following question: What is the reason for such repressive behaviour of the police in Ormož or Ormož Municipality, also applicable to the Municipality of Sveti Tomaž and the Municipality of the Centre ob Drava? Why don't people hope to leave home anymore? Maybe they're afraid of the police and the repression that's been happening on the roads lately? Is it really just a direct payment to the new commander? Why are there no more reminders and tolerance? Why are the cops hitting on me like that? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, Mr Ivanus, other Members! First of all, it must be said that the police are strictly following or are committed at least to implementing the resolution adopted here in the field of road safety, namely the 2013-2022 resolution. In addition to other activities that are well-known to citizens, this resolution also contains a plan, a far-reaching goal that may indeed come sometime, and in some countries they have already come very close to it, that is nothing to do with the number of victims or the dead on our roads. I am alone in particular, given that I myself have already personally received some questions on this subject, as you have asked, honourable Member, on matters relating to Ormož, I have specifically scrutinised. So it is a statement that you said that there is a new or rather new commander, who is probably in some way willing to prove himself in this way. However, of course, I cannot say or at least from this first examination that I have received, I cannot say that it is any kind of bullying. In the end, I will also tell you how I feel about this or what you propose. Most of the controls are carried out on the two most important roads in your area, namely main road 1 and regional road 230, where in recent years the highest number of accidents or statistics show that they are the most burdensome. At the same time, these two roads also come out because they both lead to border crossings, that is, one to the Centre near Drava and the other to the other to the larger congregation, that is, to Ljutomer. The problem of road safety is very large or very large, according to my assessment, and I must say that in the past year, as I am issuing guidance to the police, I have also issued guidance to strengthen the supervision of compliance on national and regional roads. Why — because we received complaints from some congregations that the police there did not appear to be uncontrollable, that people had in some way dissolved themselves, that it was right for the police to have some control, so of course such control is meaningful. It is, however, a question whether all commanders carry out it exactly or as intensely as you do. In Ormož, according to statistics in recent years, at least according to these data we have, a considerable proportion of alcoholic drivers have been detected, i.e. those who have been driving under the influence of alcohol. However, I would like to serve you with some specific information so that we can be closer or maybe more understanding why police control is so strict in this work. From 1. 1. By the end of February, 765 infringements of road traffic regulations had been dealt with, in the same period last year, 550. So this certainly does not show that people have committed more violations now, but I am sure that this information certainly indicates that the police have exercised more strict control, because I do not believe that people in one year would deteriorate with traffic habits so that this increase would be so high. This increase is almost 20%. In doing so, the truth must be told lovingly that only 34 warnings have been issued by police officers, which is relatively little — I have already talked about this relationship with the police director. However, the most infringements were found in the areas of speed overrun, mobile appliances used during driving, the non-use of the seat belt and, of course, what I said before, partly alcoholisation. Of these 765 founding violations, 251 fines were paid to foreigners. So there were so many foreigners, so good a third, while other fines, except warnings, were given to Slovenian citizens. In 2021, the number of accidents fell from 19 to 13, i.e. a solid progress, the proportion of alcoholized in the same period fell from 10.4 to 7.6%, while the fatalities were neither in last year nor in this year, thank God, nothing in this area. I'd like to say a few more things. [[a character for turning off the microphone]] He may have explained them in another part of his reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I couldn't ask you one more question before, I'm going to ask him: Is it true that police station commanders compete with each other with measures and, as a result, with as many fines as possible or with a full state budget? I want to know: Why is the police hitting locals like that while arrivals have increasing protection in Slovenia? In addition, I would like to say that I myself have experienced this police repression in my home Ormož. When I was in the car, when I was in control of my cell phone, a police officer approached me and actually said that he heard that I was making a lot of phone calls in the car or while driving and, of course, without warning, he also wrote a fine. But I'm curious, I'm wondering: Where does a cop get that kind of information about me? Does that mean they're following me, driving after me, or driving after Members? I don't know. I wonder. I also want to know: What chance does the minister have to influence this commander in Ormož? Is there anything the minister can do to help reduce or eliminate this repression? Does the movement against the police that is supposed to be established in Ormož suit you? Do you also approve of a situation like this? Just before, you said that the penalties had been reduced, but you did not say that basically all the congregations had been quarantined for so many months. This has also been a significant reduction in traffic and so on and so on. I ask you to examine this matter to the end, and above all I invite you to visit us as well as the police as the Ormož Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u237	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you, honourable Member, for your invitation. I must say that I was with you, so in one of the congregations that I first visited, we finally chose your congregation for our first meeting with our Croatian neighbors. We met with the Minister of the Interior of Croatia in your municipality, so your mayor and some other mayors were present. If I continue with what you asked: absolutely not. No one, at least not according to my behavior, has such a task from the commanders or has been ordered to make more money than he will collect, more successful. This would be a very poor police direction or a very bad task given by the Director-General of Police. But what my options are, all I can say is that my options are to direct the police. Last but not least, in the National Assembly, you are setting up or you are going to set up an investigative commission to review whether I may have said a word too much or a word that I should not have said to the Director General of Police, which is why my powers in this direction are very small. But I have to say that I also spoke to the Director General of Police myself and told him exactly what you said. That somehow I expect the police, that is, every last cop, to use some common sense to punish or give warnings. I think, in large cases, that rather than punishment, a warning should be given, and I believe that in quite large cases this even helps people more than pay penalties. Because if we only punish you, the man is angry, he thinks, you won't, and I don't care, and so on. However, if he received a kind response from a police officer, even in those cases, I would say, not so critical cases – of course, let’s think of alcoholization, there’s no dilemma here — perhaps in which safety belt this can be warned or anything like that. I have to say that the police in your area are extremely active, including in connection with illegal border crossings. You have 42 kilometers of this southern border, where quite a large number of illegal crossings are detected. In 2020, these were almost five hundred, or slightly less than 400, if I am quite precise, and, of course, because of this, there is a lot of tighter control on this state road, including with more patrols. These patrols should be particularly concerned about preventing the possible incursions of these illegal migrants, and certainly not about prioritising locals. I will, of course, continue with this policy of directing the police, which, of course, would require more strict supervision, not automatic punishment, but somehow directing or raising police officers to make certain progress with only warnings, not with immediate punishment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u238	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u239	Thank you. Of course, I must point out once again that I, too, am in favour of ensuring order and peace or the security of Slovenia, but of course strict compliance with traffic rules. This is supported, of course, so this is not going to work, but this pressure and this repression on our people must, if not, let go, but I do not believe in the good conclusion of this story. As far as the Municipality of Gorišnica is concerned. It is also the centre of Ljutomer, all at the southern border and, as you said before, it is the southern border of the European Union, which is the external border of the European Union. I also agree that it must be protected, but it must be protected at the border, not on the road. That's all we ask. So I am in favour of the debate under Article 246 although, President, this institution of the oral question is a total blank shot for me, because in one year we have put two questions through the 50, 60 coming to the meeting. So that these discussions do not come to an effect and there is no debate, so it is a total loss of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u240	Thank you very much. The decision whether to call for a debate is a matter for a Member, or we will decide on your proposal tomorrow in the context of the vote. Ambassador Zeljko Cigler will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u241	Mr. Visjak, hello! Thank you for coming to the National Assembly to help end the injustices that occur on Delavska Street in Celje. In fact, the City Council of the Municipality of Celje adopted the OPNN GAS-5 decree at its meeting on 2 February this year and the decree was adopted at the initiative of the company Emo Ordjarna. As part of the decree, there are also two protected residential blocks on Delavska Street in Celje from the beginning of the 20th century. The situation of the tenants, who are either owners or tenants of these apartments and who are unable to sell and move to a cheaper place because of disturbances or other circumstances, does not improve their situation, but even allows the expansion of the activities of Emo Orojarna, so that their housing situation even worsens. In the context of the preparation and adoption of the decision, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, as provided for in Article 51 of the Environmental Protection Act, was not prescribed. In view of the actual and foreseeable situation, I believe that the Ministry of Environment and Space – i.e. the decision-maker on this overall environmental impact assessment – has failed to examine and the decision on the non-necessity of the same ministry has been premature and superficial. The damage that has occurred is exclusively reflected in the deterioration of the increasingly dangerous conditions of residence on the Work Road in Celje. Minister Visjak, I ask you: Did your ministry know before deciding on the non-necessity of obtaining a CPVO that in an area where only the industrial use of this space is envisaged, there is actually an extensive housing programme? That's where people live. 90 apartments: old, young, children. Upon the adoption of the decree, dwellings do not stop, they remain, and people live in them, and they will live as long as they live. Second question. If your ministry knew about these circumstances: What justification did it not require for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment? By being objective, Mr Minister, this matter has been going on ever since 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Dear Member, it is true that in the Ministry we only deal with things that are old, I don't know, 20 years, 10 years, 15 years, and this is one of those old people. In fact, the ministry had already discovered years ago, long before I was here, that there was no need for this OPPN to produce a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, which is called the OPPN GAS-5 in Celje. I would like to point out that it is the responsibility of the local community to establish spatial implementing acts in the individual territory of its municipality. This is its exclusive competence, of course, under the conditions given by the respondents. Therefore, the decision of the congregation of Celje to build a non-residential or business work there and to change the purpose of housing in business, of course, we cannot direct or challenge the ministry. This is just the sovereign decision of the municipality which prepared the OPPN and, as such, also put this OPPN into the procedure. Therefore, for existing residential facilities along the Delavska road, the plan provides for a change of destination or demolition in the event of a need for a location for a new activity. So, it's not true, as you said, that this site will now be occupied with housing and industrial activities. According to my information, the municipality has decided entirely to change its destination and existing housing facilities are therefore turning its destination into a non-residential one. It is also possible to remove functionally inadequate and durable objects. Of course, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment was not necessary. Let me also point out that when the decision on this was issued, no objection was raised against this decision or any complaint was made that anyone would object to it — when of course the time was right. Now I'm surprised that after years and years, all of a sudden it's a problem. What prompted the Ministry to conclude in the decision that the CPVO was not necessary? Firstly, the OPPN lies outside specific protection areas such as Natura or any other protected areas. Then the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture, was asked, then the Directorate for Water. Also – interesting! – the National Laboratory for Health and the Environment and Food has confirmed that the Ministry of Health has also agreed that it is unlikely to have an important impact on human health. This is based on their opinion, I can quote you a number, of course from 2017, which means that all the arguments favoured this decision, that a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is not necessary and has not been made and that no complaint has been lodged against this decision. Therefore, in fact, it is difficult for me now to define in any way this question of yours that all of a sudden everything is wrong, as you mentioned in the question. Well, I told you the arguments. I can also quote you with all the opinions with the numbers and dates that have been obtained in the context of the decision making that a full assessment is not necessary. I'm available for further clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u244	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u245	Mr Minister, 2019 I was at the Ministry, we talked about these matters. At the Ministry, all the jobs know this thing. Since 2000, residents have been fighting for their rights because their bytes, two blocks, have literally been torn down by the cracks of five pre-Emo Orojarna, which they have in their backyard. There's capital in the first place, and the fate of the people is completely on the second. In order to make replacement apartments or to make purchases of apartments worth their while, due to the fact that industry has fallen heavily, it is not even considered by the Municipality of Celje or Orodjarna. Mr. Secretary, where is the man? Article 51 of the Environmental Protection Act – Environmental Impact Assessment – clearly states that the direct impact of the intended intervention is ensured or must be carried out when it comes to the issue of human property, cultural heritage or other natural matters. And the third paragraph of Article 51 states that the Ministry, this is your Ministry, shall carry out the preliminary procedure referred to in Article 51a of this Act. Look, this is a matter that needs to be settled. When we were at the Ministry meeting with the residents of these blocks, the State Secretary told us that he was aware that the tremors caused by the neighbouring Emo Oromjarna – capital – were causing the creation and practical critical situation in the static of these facilities. Look, why isn't that done here? Mr. Minister, I ask you: Will the Ministry of Environment and Space make a proposal to repeal the adopted GAS-5 South part decision or how else it will respond to a non-professional decision on the non-necessary need for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment? Mr Minister, I am counting on you not only to conclude this situation on the basis of what the professional services have written to you, but in fact to demonstrate your relationship and responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u247	Dear Member! First of all, you didn't really address that question. Secondly, I don't know why you didn't enforce legal remedies if you're so sure of your rights. Once again, the decision not to produce a comprehensive environmental impact assessment was issued in 2017. Why did no one turn to this decision in any way and complain against it? Why? Why did you let her become legal? Why did you abandon your duty to enforce the legal means of your thesis, which you now have here to read to me three years later? The Municipality of Celje has made a sovereign decision to change its destination in that area and that it will no longer live there. Now, this is her right. The Ministry of Environment and Space cannot interfere. A congregation in one part of its congregation should decide what its purpose would be. Of course, under the terms of the so-prepared OPPN there is no intended co-existence between industry and residents, as you claim to be a key problem. And she obviously decided the City Municipality of Celje for this change of destination, aware that the housing problem of these people who are staying there and when the change comes, even in practice, will have to be solved. If I understand you correctly, the OPPN has only just been adopted, which means that it is only a possibility for action or change of destination in fact. As a result, I invite you to address the question to the right one, this is to the Municipality of Celje. With all arguments, however, I am on the fact that, for such a municipal detailed spatial plan as it was, there is no reason, there is no legal basis for prescribing a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. In fact, in this House, I am facing the opposite view. Why we complicate why we are bureaucratic and why we prescribe a wide variety of environmental impact assessments for some interventions into a place that is completely innocent. You're the other way around. That is, you can see why there is no comprehensive environmental assessment, but you have no argument to state it. You have specified an argument that is not true. There is no provision for the co-existence of residential and commercial industrial activities as the RIPN envisages a change in the purpose of housing work in industrial or business activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u249	Thank you, Chairman. I'm making a motion for a procedural motion. Of course, the matter in the National Assembly is being dealt with. It's not about my thesis, Mr. Minister, it's about things that are old and people have been making the most of their efforts, they've been very engaged -- they've been ignored. The case was raised and dealt with twice at the Council of the Municipality of Celje. One time especially because of this problem, and even now, I told you, 2. 2. 2021, things have been taken over. That's why I asked your ministry, in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act, to respond practically. I was counting on you to do what I said. I said that residents live in 90 apartments, these are people who don't have the money to move out of these apartments by buying new apartments or selling them because these apartments are worthless. Living in the middle of a factory is worthless! That is why I am counting on this country to actually show its relationship to the people who have been put on the side here; both by the local community, by capital that is not obviously interested, and there are no alternative apartments or purchases or purchases per year — and there are 90 apartments — and I am still counting that the Ministry of Environment and Space will implement its legal obligation under Article 51 of the Environmental Protection Act. I made a proposal for a hearing in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Ambassador Boris Doblekar will ask the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! Dear Minister Koritnik, today I have one subject for you, which, in all my activities, even at the time of the underground, I pay very much attention, and this is the construction of a broadband network. It is necessary to know whether at least I have somehow in mind that the broadband network or the fast internet is for fast access to the Internet for television and all the other very important things, almost as much as water or electricity at this time. In view of the fact that these activities of building a broadband network in the country in recent years and also now are increasing, and I hope that soon all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to access the rapid internet, I am interested in: How is it currently with the construction of a fast internet or network across Slovenia, especially with regard to the construction by Telekom, which is applying to your calls? And also: How is the construction of the RUNE project network, the European Rural Network Project, which is present in Slovenia and is expected to cover the rural area across Slovenia? Here sometimes there are various questions in citizens and citizens, especially from the countryside, if we or we will also get this internet and how this building is going, where it is now, when it will be our turn. Some also have no idea why Telekom builds the network and then free of charge comes to the house, and then you choose only the operator, and you have to pay 150 euros at RUNE. There are a lot of these open questions and it would be right to somehow get all these answers out of your mouth, to make this a little bit clearer to people, and some vision to when all the inhabitants or households should be connected to this broadband network. Perhaps in this part, when you answer something basic, then in the appendix you would ask some additional, perhaps more detailed questions, or maybe what I will see that you will not get into the answer. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Thank you for that question. In any case, the construction of broadband networks is crucial, if ever, we have observed it or detected it in this covid epidemic. Specifically with regard to the Rune project, it is an international project by RUNE Enia d.o.o., whose majority owner is the European Investment Fund Connecting Europe Broadcast Fund, CEBF, and the main purpose of this CEBF is to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the so-called Gigabit Company. The project also builds ultra-fast broadband optical infrastructure in rural areas of Slovenia, for example at the end of last year in the municipality of Pesnica as the first resident users in Europe were connected to a 10-giggabit accessible network. It is important that this built network is open and available to all providers so that they can offer their services to end-users under the same conditions. This is about what you asked. More specifically, with regard to the Rune project, I will now be a little more precise because I believe that this is of interest to the general public. The RUNE project is implemented by private means, the Ministry of Public Administration does not participate in this project as a co-investor with public funds, so we do not have more detailed information on the current flow and number of built optical connections. We also have no more detailed information on parts of networks and related centres, but this project is linked to the expressed market interest of RUNE in 2016 and 2017. In this regard, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, AKOS, has exercised control and has already initiated a criminal procedure within the framework of its powers. I do not yet have specific information in this regard; of course, the agency is independent in this work. Some information about the project is also available for the population on the website – I will read it because it is very useful: https://www.uralnetwork.eu-sl/. Information is available to the public for every address in Slovenia for all time, i.e. for the areas of Litija and Šmartno pri Litija, whether the connection will be built there within the next three months, one year or three years. I can give you, donkeys later, those websites that I'm going to use. As I said, up-to-date and accessible to everyone. With regard to your initiative to use existing infrastructure adequately, I am explaining in general and then in concrete terms that all investors of the electronic communications network must take into account all the provisions of the Electronic Communications Act not only in the context of the Rune project, but generally in the construction of the networks. In this regard, in particular the provisions on network building and the provision of competition – again in relation to the possibility of any infrastructure provider in the end – are relevant. In accordance with Article 14 ZEK-1, investors must register their network and network connection points in the public record, i.e. the Collective Catastrophe of Economic Public Infrastructure. The data of this cadastra are public and are available on the website https://gis.kos-rs.si or also on egp.gu.gov.si. On the basis of these data, investors have been enabled – with a view to establishing these websites – to better coordinate the construction of networks in a way that does not lead to duplication. Finally, this project is about private investment, so that the involvement of local communities, other operators and other infrastructure operators is part of their private business model. However, we are convinced that such a project without such cooperation cannot be implemented and we believe that the RUNE project is also very well aware. With regard to the initiative to upgrade the existing Telekom optical wiring where Telekom has no economic interest, we are aware of these digital gaps between the urban and rural areas in coverage with these fixed [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Minister, for those answers! True, now, during this time of schooling from home, the fast Internet is still very welcome for every family, for every student. These are the things that you have already highlighted, perhaps again, and you may continue to do so. Some of the things that I myself have seen in the construction of these networks in my area, in the area of Lithium and Šmartno pri Lithium, are that construction happened. For example, he dragged Telekom this week, followed by RUNE next week, and another road had to be dug up. I would expect or perhaps suggest that I give you the initiative to bring everyone together, and Telekom and RUNE, to coordinate a little bit more in order to somehow build this network at the same time. That seems essential to me. Then it is here, even though citizens and citizens can see on the website whether their household will come to this fast Internet at some point – with RUNE in three years – it should be stressed here that Telekom has greatly accelerated this construction. Of course, each congregation is trying to gain this in its own way, but nevertheless, it is said — better coordination in construction. And yet: there are still some villages or some gray fox where people are afraid because they think they won't somehow get to this fast Internet. And just from these villages, more remote, say Štangarski Poljane, Velika Štanga, Račica, Gozd-Reka, Mamolj, Gradiške Laze, which are really more remote, turn around, say, to me and ask whether we will really come in line or not. So I would really suggest that everyone is really involved here and that this communication between Telekom and RUNE and the municipalities with the mayors is also better, that these people actually come from this fast internet. Maybe just a word or two, if you want or if you know, for those areas where this copper is in there, that's not gonna change. How is this hybrid access where this 4G is already available? Does this hybrid access have to be paid by people themselves, or will it also be provided free of charge for all users? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u257	Thank you. I apologize for the overstatement earlier. I'll try to stick to the limitations now. What you said surprised me as a minister, but also as someone who was in the private sector, that two entities could not agree with a week of delay – even though all of this has been published – to lower costs every half is solved; unless someone speculates that the next one will not go away because he interrupted it for a week. But it's really just speculation, but it makes no sense to me. I believe that somehow private entities should be known to follow more than public law such logical actions that save costs. In any case, this coordination would be useful and good, but it would not be bad if you gave me information on this particular case, so that we might even ask a little of the operators on this occasion or avoid such situations. Like I said, there's no way the state is going to forget any part of our country. Not only in these villages, which I know very well, because I'm from those places, but also. What I wanted to say earlier, I will now finish this upgrade, i.e. by operators, even for areas where they have not shown economic interest, we in the Ministry of Public Administration are mainly concerned about covering this digital gap with the Ministry of Agriculture, I must not forget this, in the area of Koroška they are also involved. These digital gaps between urban and rural areas – that is why we co-finance the construction of open broadband networks from public funds for all households, for which private investors, not only Telekom Slovenije, have no interest in the construction of the network in the next three years, we are already preparing a new call and I think that the Ministry of Agriculture will be doing so in a short time. I mean, if ever, it turns out that we have to speed things up here. With regard to this last question, hybrid access is a surcharge, or I think that this is a more question for operators, but it is certainly good that we know this, so that I will look into it and try to get this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Željko Cigler will ask the Minister of Health Mr Janez Poklukar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Poklukar! Recently, in Slovenian public institutions and hospitals, there has been a rapid political change in management staff and the worlds of institutions. How will this affect the functioning and quality of Slovenian public health in a situation that is now very critical? The Prime Minister of the Government warned us that when the third wave comes, we can be close to the Czech Republic, where the army helps to maintain order and discipline. Look, I'm speaking from the point of view of the cell hospital, which is just a sample of this. For almost three years, we have been monitoring the agony of the General Hospital Celje, which began with the illegal appointment of Margareta Guček Zakošek as director. This is the lady who was elected Member of the SMC, State Secretary to Minister Počvalsk and Head of the SMC in Celje. And at the time of her directing, we witnessed, and I hope that there will be no further departure of personnel, a conflict with expertise and the elimination of the profession from the impact on the operations of the hospital, a breakdown of health programs. The National Investigation Office has investigated several of the things in which Mrs Zakošek was directing. Recruitment exclusively of SMC personnel to the hospital management and removal of other personnel that are not and who have been alerted to irregularities in the management of the hospital. If someone from the financial board advised, he was removed. For reasons of guilt. See, some portals have also reported that when a new appointment was needed last year as director of the Celje hospital, Minister of Restoration, Jelka Godec and Vinko Gorenak were extremely assisted in doing so in order to re-appointed Zakoskova. Indeed, it was reappointed this year on the basis of strong political support, before which the President of the Council of the Institute and several representatives of the Council of the Institute, who were representatives of the Government and members of coalition parties, were replaced. Interesting, they obviously knew who they were dealing with. Mr Minister, we have never seen anything like it in our health care in Slovenia, so much pressure and an affair around one person. I'm asking you: What's going on at Celje General Hospital? Does it really matter to health care and to you, as a minister, for the 300,000 people who receive health care in a hospital where internal relations are broken and people are fleeing? Are we, indeed, all the inhabitants of the wider region obviously also hostages of corrupt policies? Before that, I mentioned the people involved. Is it possible that the investigation into corrupt acquisitions of protective equipment and fans leads to the top of the ruling coalition?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Željko Cigler! I expected more operational questions related to the General Hospital Celje, as announced, and that the topic will run on the topic of what is crucial at this moment in the medium term to set up a vision of this hospital and to provide health services in the Celje region, which is the third largest hospital in Slovenia. So it's going to be about investments. As regards the appointment of the Director, this is, of course, the responsibility of the Board of Directors. This is a fact arising from the Law on Public Institutions. It is true, however, that the representatives of the councils of the institution are also appointed by the State. I think that the Customs Council of the Institute has 7 members, of which 4 have representatives of the States, one local community, one insurance representative and one is employed. I'm together. And I believe that it is crucial for the appointment of the Director to discuss members from all sides. Thus this responsibility is on the board of the institution and, of course, it is the responsibility and responsibility of the minister of government to appoint a board of institutions or representatives of the state, but it is the responsibility of the Council of the Institute to carry out proper procedures and to appoint a director as a legal representative or representative of a public health institution. So much that I can tell you about the appointment itself. I don't know any other details, and I don't even know any other things that could help you here in any way in your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Brickler, you have the floor to complete your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u263	Mr. Minister, look, I'm alerting you to your current situation. When you said that the responsibility of the institution in the world is to make the appointment constructive, qualitative, I said earlier that it was a strong political pressure to call it a person who is clearly incompetent and professional. Second, you said, investments. Look, the investments are led by a team that I described earlier, what it is like, when a new emergency centre in a cell hospital was so poorly planned, it's constantly questionable that it will be necessary before it is upgraded, because the investment in a cell hospital is running, it will have to be closed and repaired. Look, this is what we're talking about. I am talking about media conflicts between the Director-General and the current Director-General. I think you know the CEO well. That's what I'd say. The Department of Health Insurance has not given her consent for several years when the lady was in charge of the hospital, unlawfully, when she was in charge of the health care team, to an additional business award, because waiting types were growing, doctors were leaving, a contract programme signed by the hospital for treatment with the Institute of Health Insurance was not implemented, no funds were spent. That's what I'd like to say. I was also called by one of the people in high school who works in a cell hospital — a hundred and a few of them — and she said that the coding of the disease was once under the authority of doctors, as far as the patient’s covid is concerned. Now it came solely into the hands of the administration, more specifically the invoicing service, where again the responsible lady, Gradišnik, is written, which is a close co-worker of Minister Počvalska, was in his cabinet. These things can't run, so the cell hospital has practically the most demanding cod of patients who receive very high funds and are justified or not from this title. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, your time has run out. Mr. Secretary, would you like to add something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. What you have added, of course, is to insist that I believe that every citizen is responsible for using all the institutions he has in order to prevent any abuse you have listed or suspected. But the fact is, given your information, I'm sure General Hospital Celje will be one of the first hospitals I'm going to visit to see what the hospital situation is like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I am making a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to discuss the matter, and I have pointed it out several times. Mr. Minister, I just want to help you as a potential patient of a cell hospital or 300,000 people gravity at this hospital and believe me, so far, until a few years ago, it worked well, today people are leaving. We also have a huge number of them in the General Hospital Celje bicurve, where you are waiting for a doctor who is otherwise of quality, similar to this Mariborian doctor who was in Namibia on a hunting trip. He provides his service qualitatively, but for him the waiting line is such that you do not come or that the program he is implementing is because, for example, recently two doctors from his department have started to quit, and this doctor works with private and concessionaries, where you come in a few days’ time. See, these are some of the practices that actually undermine the public health system, which we finance and hope for citizens and citizens, by means of compulsory and additional health insurance. Mr Minister, we just want to help you to cut off such irregular and corrupt practices, to put themselves in decision-making positions – I know that you will not be able to, because I understand this, but we are still trying and we will also achieve this in the end – right, competent people to take proper care of public health in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u269	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Minister of State! My question, of course, relates to housing policy, and housing policy is in fact one of the most important issues that has been dealt with more or less successfully by all governments so far. In Slovenia, this problem is particularly complex, as the situation and the review of developments on the housing market is not transparent and there is, in fact, no institution that would have a proper review of it. On the one hand, we have housing funds, municipal and state funds, which, instead of carrying out one policy to review the situation on the housing market, essentially act as a real estate manager. Moreover, because of the inadequate amount of rent, virtually everyone would, given the actual depreciation costs of their dwellings, have to do business negatively, and now they are somehow hiding this with some accounting tricks. Nor do housing funds keep records of the actual cost of renting apartments. You're trying to address this last problem with a novel of the Housing Law, which we're going to deal with briefly. On the other hand, in Slovenia housing is being accelerated and people feel somehow that housing construction is not related to the growth of the population. Many new buildings are built on one side, while many existing ones remain empty and unexploited. There's no accurate data on how many apartments there are. In my view, the Housing Fund in each local community should also have access to and follow up on this data in real time, respond to anomalies and also act. I'm a respected minister, so I'm interested in: When can we expect the establishment of a Public Service, which will also affect the emergence of a sufficient number of apartments on the market, so that rent prices and housing will finally fall? In this way these apartments could become accessible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u271	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. It is very up - to - date, for at this meeting of the National Assembly, there has already been a novelty of the Housing Law, which deals with this very issue. This novel of the Housing Law will be the first reading, so one of the opposition parliamentary groups demanded. Otherwise, we could have a second reading and probably an adopted law in April and the Public Service would have started working a month earlier, so it will be a month later. But I'm sure it will be around June, July of this year. In fact, the amendment of the Housing Law also specifically defines the beginning of operation and also the conditions for the operation of the Public Service within the framework of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as housing policy is concerned, we are following, of course, the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025 adopted by the National Assembly and, on the basis of this resolution, the primary objective of this resolution is to strengthen the Public Housing Fund. So in the Republic of Slovenia we have this specificity that we are quite ownershipally oriented. We own a huge amount of real estate, a public rental service or a fund of public rentals, that is to say those that are available for rent, and in Slovenia there is a great shortage of these, and that is why the Slovenian Housing Fund builds thousands of apartments. Thus, by 2023, it will provide 2 000 360 new apartments, which it will offer on the market. This is very important because these rental apartments are also built for target groups, both for young families, where, of course, these public rental apartments build an infrastructure that is suitable for young families, that is also said to have played, playgrounds and the like, which is an integral part of such neighbourhoods. We also build suitable dwellings through the Slovenian Housing Fund for the older generation, the older population. In fact, it is built all over Slovenia, partly by the Housing Fund, and partly by the Housing Fund, it buys apartments from other private investors. If we add municipal housing funds to this, the rental housing fund will be significantly increased. That this will actually happen, and we also guarantee this financial work of the novel of the Housing Law. In fact, this rent, the non-profit rent has in fact not been aligned over the past 10 years with the increase in the cost of living, so the component will also be the harmonisation of the point which is then aimed at valorising this rent, or also this money provides some stock of money for public funds to build additional apartments in Slovenia. So this novelty of the law follows primarily this objective, that in the future there will be many, many more public rentals. As far as public employment is concerned, that's all. We are counting, as you have rightly found, that using this public rental service we will activate unoccupied apartments that are owned by owners, and because of some caution the owners do not rent them because they are afraid that either the tenants will not pay rent or they will not pay the costs or anything. In this case, the Slovenian Housing Fund will act as an intermediary who will, of course, rent an apartment from the owner and rent it to the renter. Of course, he will also guarantee the owner the problems he would have with the tenant. It will also guarantee legal certainty for the owner, since he will take care of the conclusion of contracts, which is often left to the market and also to various undesirable practices. So we want to activate this unoccupied housing fund. Now, practice will show whether we have made this solution attractive enough or not. To the extent that there are not enough housing in this, we will, of course, upgrade this job, the Public Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I agree with you in this part of the answer. I would like to see a cadastral of dwellings at the national level with their actual use, so that both local communities and the state know what is happening to the housing market in real time, so that they can respond to the anomalies on the market and also take action in real time. I am aware that because of the pricing policy of rents, non-profit rents, housing funds could not carry out their basic functions. And also in Maribor, the housing fund was forced to sell real estate. If every housing fund in Slovenia took real account of the costs and depreciation, I am sure that everyone would do business negatively. This is one problem that needs to be addressed and solved. As a result of the fact that social housing was not built due to inadequate non-profit rent, on the other hand, we had an unregulated and wild market for market apartments, where rents were also deluded and young families, for example, had to pay as much as EUR 500 or 700 rent for a 50-square apartment. In this regard, I want this matter to be settled and such absurd rents as we have witnessed will no longer be repeated. Such rents also have an impact on housing prices, which are rising despite the crisis and despite reduced revenues. In this sense, I believe that this measure, which we have discussed, should also have an impact on the price of the square metre, which is somehow growing unwarrantedly as bitcoin. And if the price of a square metre of apartment approaches 2 000 euros in Maribor and 3 or 4 thousand euros in Ljubljana, this represents certain risks. I want to know: How do you intend to address this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I fully agree with most of the things you have stated. One would expect it, yes, because in some ways the number of people is staggering so that the demand for housing is also appropriate, and that is not the case. Demand is rising, and it is increasing mainly due to an unbalanced market. Indeed, we have a lot of demand and fewer offers — and how can we address this problem? Yes, only by providing an additional fund for public rentals in a sustainable manner is this said to be a non-profit rental allowing reproduction. This is said to be the sum of these apartments itself over the years; in short, amortisation is also included in this price. So far, I have mentioned good 10 years; more than that, since 2007, the point on non-profit rent has not been aligned with the rise in cost of living, nor with the rise in prices of construction services, nor in construction materials, nor in maintenance, nor in nothing. Which means that the matter has become completely unsustainable and, of course, guardians, managers of these apartments and owners do not have the means to rebuild, let alone for new construction. A very similar example, since I was once a minister for work, is with homes for the elderly. I don't want public rentals to happen, like with nursing homes. Even old-age homes were built with public funds, the price did not normally include depreciation and, consequently, we are without funding for the reconstruction of these homes. We now have old homes, but we do not have the means to rebuild because it was not included in the price of depreciation services. That is why this is a dangerous thing to do and we do not want it in the residential area, because then we will have to finance it again with public funds over time. So, of course, it is crucial that we balance this market to offer more public rentals to the market. And that's what we're doing. I say that several thousand will be built only by the Slovenian Housing Fund, I believe that a few hundred more each municipal housing fund and that we will also activate through the Public Renting Service apartments that are now empty and not rented. Thus, by 2025, as the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, we will have a deadline to tackle this problem significantly. The novelty of the Housing Law brings some other important solutions, making it easier to reach agreement within the framework or decision in the context of housing for investment maintenance, to maintain — what has been so many times to renovate such apartments. So, honourable Member, I propose that you do not make a procedural proposal because we will have a general debate this week or at the beginning of the next general debate on the amendment of the Housing Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Reich, you want a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u277	Nevertheless, despite somehow having a creative dialogue, I will make a procedural proposal and propose that we discuss this very important subject at one of the upcoming meetings. I believe that what the Minister has said is very important that a number of non-profit dwellings will be built by the state and local communities. I propose that the government, finally or the target number of these dwellings, also communicate to the public how much the country, how many local communities, and in this way send a clear message to the market what will happen in the next two, three years, especially in the event that, due to such conditions, some take 30-, 40-year-olds, i.e. life-long loans and loans that will in fact be repaid to the pension. It is right for the Government to communicate with one clear signal in such a way that prices on the market are unrealistic and that, as a result of the measures you are planning, they will fall, fall, fall strongly. As a second issue, I would also like to determine in this debate how much the price of real estate is, I will say, the average price or the target price of real estate, which is real on the market and which also allows professionals to start working with us with real estate. For example, we don't have professional investors in apartments, we don't have professional funds to invest in rental apartments, but it's either left to ineffective housing funds so far, or the same market. I believe that this is a very important topic to be addressed and also from this National Assembly to send a clear signal on what will happen in 5 years and on what consequences these measures will have on the prices of real estate, so I would like to ask my fellow Members and Members to support my proposal once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 3 March, in the framework of the votes. As a matter of last resort, Mr Janez Poklukar will be asked by Mr Boštjan Koražija, Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u279	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister of Health, nice greeting! Today I will ask you or also remind you of the sadly overlooked employees in our healthcare system, and this is the medical staff. So, nurses and others. Look, this is the case, because I think you're already familiar with the issue of being the director of the largest university clinical centre and knowing that there is actually a shortage of medical staff or nurses. At the same time, there are even greater deviations or flaws in this area due to disease and other factors affecting the absence of this medical staff. It also estimates that in normal circumstances there would already be a shortage of about 25 per cent of medical personnel, says about two thousand employees, new employees in this health sector or in the system. I'm going to ask you directly because I think you've already done a lot of work on this right now, at the time you took over as Minister of Health: Do you intend to revise the classification in the salary classes for healthcare and nursing staff, so that their basic salary will also reflect at least the minimum fair pay for the work they do? In doing so, I am not referring to the fragmentation of the single wage system, which I fear is being planned by the Government on many occasions or also trying to represent it somehow, but I am thinking more in the direction of its repairs. This is in terms of a fair assessment of the complexity of work and their classification as a higher pay grade for at least as many classes as had happened in doctors. It's the next thing. We don't really have a problem with human education in Slovenia, it says, we educate him very much or almost enough for our needs, the problem is that we don't keep him or we don't keep him because of the poor evaluation of work or wages. A lot of them then go to work or to Austria, Germany; even Germany is known at this time, they have already begun operating with numbers to need up to 300 thousand new medical personnel in the coming years. Please also, if you are trying to present to me in this direction: How do you plan to keep this medical staff of ours from going out of this health system, not even abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u281	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear, honourable Member, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Boštian Koražija! Thank you very much for this important health issue. This may be one of the key, of course, funding is important, but the foundation of everything is the frame. For quite some time it has been treated primarily by medical personnel in the health care itself, both doctors and nurses. You may know that as the director of the autumn hospital in 2018 – one of the first ones – I have pointed out that we have a malaise in the field of health care and that there is a need to systematically cut down on the measures, otherwise it will be harder every year in hospitals. Of course, there are many reasons for this. And it certainly would not produce the right final results to respond to this in a uniform way. The first is, of course, the educational system, which we have gathered across the European Community many years ago, and, of course, as our standard, we have appointed a graduate nurse. We know that before that, it is said, I think that shortly after 2000, we had practically only the profile of a midwife as a care provider. Today, of course, we have a number of graduate nurses, I think that in 2018 there were for the first time more nurses than doctors, but at the same time there were fewer or fewer middle nurses. Of course, our goal is to raise the level of quality in health care, this is the right level of education, so we look forward to having as many or enough nurses as possible in the system at a certain time. This is said to be one condition — sufficient education; it is said to be a sufficient number and well-educated staff. That's one thing if we want to have a proper and sufficient number of nurses in the system. Other, of course, are working conditions. The fact is that insufficiency or underinvestment in all the last segments of health care – I will now say – for 30 years that I will not expose any of them has, of course, led to the fact that the conditions of work are much closer, and I will say, to places that we do not want to have as an example than to the most developed Western countries. Nevertheless, according to expertise, our staff are reaching a world summit, as I have pointed out many times, not only through professional knowledge, but also by moral and ethical values. The third part, which is important, is leadership. Here in the field of health, we have completely lost our strategy or red thread in the past, and we have not deliberately raised personnel who can run departments, hospitals, the system. And then it's almost a national strategy or plan to get to the candidates for the minister every time. So we have a lot of challenges here, and only wages won't solve the system. That's what I was gonna say. However, it is certainly necessary to ensure, within health care, that in difficult jobs they receive a higher pay, because at the level that is happening to us at this moment, the only resistance to this levelling point is the fact that the staff is moving from harder jobs for the same pay to easier jobs. That is, and that is why this system needs to be upgraded. Now, which model is the best or how to do it, whether it's by model, I don't know, doctors who have PPDs and are thus defined by harder jobs and are therefore better rewarded in harder jobs. Years ago, we submitted a proposal from the Jesenic to the Health Care Workers' Syndicate, as well as to the Health Care Chamber, how this would be done. That's how they're here, I think, good starting points, good gripping points. Surely one of the important elements is, of course, the reward for the good and successful performance of works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u283	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. I fully agree with the Minister that wages alone will not solve this problem, because a huge number of nurses or medical personnel, including the conditions in which they are doing their job, even at this time of crisis, are actually leaving this health system or are going to work in what foreign countries, as previously mentioned. I would also like to remind you that, as early as 6 January 2021 and 5 January, Mr President of the Government, even then in the role of Minister of Health, the Trade Union of Workers in Health of Slovenia sent a letter in this letter pointing out the unsustainable situation in the system, and they were very disappointed because they kept reminding them of these things that were happening to them or even to anomalies and poor working conditions, and they received no reply or no response from the President of the Government, who was still in the role of Minister of Health at the time. And now I'm going to ask you directly: Can they expect you to work hard or work towards improving working conditions, increasing staff and, of course, paying? It is said that everyone who is part of this system or medical personnel can expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u285	Thank you so much for saying that. Surely this is one of the goals. Everywhere I worked, the nurse was part of the team, and so it must be an important element if health care can be called a team, the medical part of the team. We have already agreed at the morning college to set deadlines for all workers' representatives, which is said to be trade unions, so that we will meet in the near future. On the other hand, professional associations, both of them. Of all of us, we expect, above all, constructive proposals, that we are actually together determined to improve things and actually come to realization. Here, as I have already said, everyone is invited to move together and make our system medium and long-term sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazia, do you have a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u287	Thank you for your word. In fact, the minister again gave a very good starting point as to whether hospitals or health systems are some kind of team or teamwork. Just because I do not want medical personnel to be somehow excluded or to work, I will say in the football jargon that they should sit on the bench and actually do almost the most work or do the most work in this system, I want the debate to be held in the National Assembly so that opinions can be expressed. I am also pleased that you said earlier that you have already begun to work on establishing contacts or contacts with trade unions and with all those involved in this system so that these matters will be settled and brought to a better level as soon as possible. Finally, I will say something very interesting – I don't know if you listened when it was – that we had here last week, yes last week was when you were appointed minister. But I do believe I wish I had the feeling that you're a very self-sufficient person, and that you have very thick skin, I'll say. [[…]] I would also like to see this self-sufficiency, and this kind of perseverance, shown to Mr President of the Government that he would take more account of the expertise, but also that he would be able to tell himself about the professional matters, because he cannot know everything. I hope you'll be here on some matters anyway. I'll say, teach him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now, as the last one, Mrs Violeta Tomić will also ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u289	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Well, we have come to the last question of the mission, which is by no means the last, because when it comes to life, it is for many relatives, patients and their friends, in fact, the most important. We know that the covid-19 epidemic has crippled health care at all levels. Many are victims of non-medical diseases such as cancer, heart failure, and the like. However, for patients with cancer, bone marrow transplantation may be prolonged, and the Car T medical apparatus — I hope I said it correctly — could save them. And some 30 patients have been waiting for therapy, they have been promised for one year that this device will be purchased, but apparently the matter has been stuck in the drawer for the last year. The purchase, according to our information, was already approved for 2018 when our doctors went to Frankfurt for sightseeing and training – you will probably know more about this than I do. With the new government of John Janša, all things have stopped, all meetings have been cancelled, and none of those responsible have been on the commercials. Plasmaocytes are a form of blood cancer. This method can also treat some other forms of incurable blood diseases such as leukaemia and lymphoma. CAR-T implements cell therapy as it uses the most advanced technology to use patients’ own lymphocytes, which they learn to recognise and destroy cancer cells. Doctors are talking about a real revolution in cancer treatment, and patients are finally getting a new light of hope. For the device, there is already a certain space, prepared and trained already, a circus of 30 patients has already prepared viral vectors and could be treated with this method immediately. It is 30 women, children, men who are running out of time, and it feels like the health system has simply forgotten them somewhere between hope and salvation. In the Slovenian Association of Patients with Lymphoma and Leukemia, they point out that too many lives are at risk and there is no response from decision makers, since the covid-19 epidemic is an excuse for everyone, but it hides only the ignorance of those responsible. That's why I'm asking you: Do you not find it unacceptable to stop those who have been most urgent and already promised and approved with all your investments in health care, as this endangers the lives of many patients? When exactly do you plan to respond to those who have automatically organised themselves, especially when will you obtain the CAR-T device that is necessary to save human lives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u291	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Member, honourable Member, thank you very much for this important question! The fact is, as director of the Clinical Center, I have faced this potentially new technology, I think that at the end of 2019, when we went with Professor Beast to look into the matter in Frankfurt and, well, I must be honest – we ran into both the enthusiasts of this new technology and some who are a little less enthusiastic. But no matter what. The fact is that Slovenia needs this. Slovenia needs this mainly for two reasons; for the first time, because it counts every life and because we have universal public health. And secondly, because this is the basis for the development and progress of the profession, which in this way remains in contact with the world summit. This is the only way, and that's why we've been supporting our efforts to get to this equipment all the time. At the same time, I must point out that all those who need this treatment get it right now. Otherwise not in Slovenia, but in this way either they go abroad or the medicine comes here. Of course, as I said, the goal must be that such a top-level profession is part of Slovenian health care and it is therefore important that in certain institutions we maintain and upgrade health services with so-called tertiary resources, which are an important part of the development of new treatments and new technologies. Of course, this technology has to be successfully revived, as you said, by a properly trained staff and, of course, it cannot be trained in stock. It would be inadequate or inappropriate to train 2018 and we would not have an apparatus in 2021 because all of this cartridge would, of course, fade away or fade away. And, of course, the objective is that in the new DTS laboratories, which – I think the tendering project has been under way since 2018 – ends this year and there is also a clean room for these CAR-T equipments. Of course, it must be said that at this moment we have one such apparatus in Slovenia. We have it at the Institute for Transfusion Medicine, but of course experts at the Institute for Transfusion Medicine use it for other purposes, because it is not a device that is only intended for acquisition, I will say, such therapy is broader than this technology and therefore offers a great potential someday for future treatments that we are not even talking about today. It is therefore important for the Slovenian medical or medical profession from all aspects. This is such a complex case that, of course, Professor. From the beginning, the beast is aware that we must step together, and connects both the Institute for Transfusion Medicine into this project as the Medical Faculty and the Institute of Microbiology, as well as Professor Jeralo; it is said that the circle of scientists is indeed that we can develop and upgrade it properly. The fact is that the basis for this technology, after you have an apparatus and a clean room, is, of course, this vector that you've been talking about, which is, of course, on the cellular level, this cellular drug. And back here is the potential for developing this technology. For the preparation of one treatment from this apparatus, it takes several days to several weeks and can be occupied for several weeks for one preparation of this therapy. So we know that in the end we will need three, four or more apparatus at this stage of knowledge of the use of this technology, and then, of course, time will also show the development of the profession, how decisive and crucial this will ultimately be. The fact is that this is the moment we are waiting for the Clinical Centre to prepare the DIP, the real document of the project's investment, which, of course, we will be able to place in the NRP and in 2021 we will be able to finance what it requires from the budget in order to run this technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, you said some things we already know. You said, "everyone who needs this treatment is allowed abroad." The fact is that an intervention for one patient, if carried out abroad, costs about EUR 300,000, and should account for about 660 000 for the purchase of one such device. So it would be worth getting it. Again, civil society has been activated, and to this day, citizens and businesses have gathered around €350,000. For example, the composer Drago Ivanusha, who has turned out to be a patient with myeloma, plays online every night and collects donations. Do you think that's the way a respected minister works in a state that is considered social? It seems totally unacceptable to me! And it's true that four of these machines would be needed. But we urgently need one that would save 30 people who would otherwise die within six months. It's not negligible and it's not statistics and it's not a mistake. As you yourself said, we already have such a device in the Department of Transfusion Medicine, but they don't use it for these purposes. They say the team will begin training in 2023 — that is, certain death for many. So what you promised to start this investment in 2021 kind of calms me down, but we'll hold you to that. I will ask you to repeat this promise once again when I make a procedural proposal, because, you know, this government has completely wrong priorities. I think it's unacceptable that there's always enough money for guns. Even a proposal was made for a rescue expert to devote money to health care providers — and to raise money for armoured men and not vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u295	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you, too, Mrs Violeti Tomić, for complementing this issue. Of course, I agree with everything you have to say. And it is true that it is a great act of those who in these days collect these funds, which, in particular with their engagement, has been largely activated by Professor. The Beast with his team, it is said through the Society of Hematological Patients. So on my part, of course, a sincere thanks and a gift for such an honorable act. But it's true, as you said, it's up to us, it's in the Ministry to provide these funds and to start with no excuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u296	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u297	My procedural proposal is to hold a debate on this at the next meeting, because today's question, which I am sending, can also be read as an initiative to provide at least one of these CTs, this apparatus that will solve these 30 lives, which unfortunately will be too late for them in the next half year. I believe, Minister, that you haven't had all this information one month ago, nor have you had the competence to change it. Unfortunately, we were in the midst of the worst epidemic without a minister, without a functioning Ministry of Health. But now you have information, I'm probably not the only one who informed you, and you have competence because you're the Minister of Health, and somehow by doing so I'm putting this responsibility on you now. Totally! These people's lives are in your hands, they're your responsibility, so I'll hold you to your word, and patients with a myeloma, I'm sure they're following us, because for them there's every hope that they'll survive, a light of hope that we can't take. That's how I'll hold you to it. And in fact, I expect, I seriously expect you to go to this investment documentation immediately and really get this equipment immediately, or activate what is already at the Institute for Transfusion Medicine for those who need help immediately. This is my procedural proposal to discuss this seriously. Above all, if there is no money and it has to be collected by civil society, which, in my opinion, is extremely sad and unacceptable, that patients themselves have to step in and collect money, while money runs out for a million others, a lot less important things, is actually worth considering when you share in the government these piles of money, which are now quite substantial. We know that we are getting loans from the European Union that we will return one day, but priority is human health, as government representatives always say. When there is no money – you always have enough here for armor, take it there. But whoever wants to shoot a lot can do some charity work and collect for guns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-01-SDZ8-Izredna-63.ana.u298	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Your procedural proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, as part of the vote. We're done with the questions. I thank the Ministers for all the answers given, and I also interrupt the first item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 3 March, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. So I am adjourning the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good evening, everyone.
