ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Starting the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Franc Jurša, Jožef Horvat by 16:00, Gregor Židan from 15.30 to 17.30, Ferenc Horváth, Robert Polnar from 9 p.m. to 14 p.m., Felice Žiža, Iva Dimic until 16 p.m., Tadeja Šuštar Zalar until 17 p.m., Mateja Udovč, Anja Bah Žibert, mag. Bojana Muršič by 5 p.m., only Bevk by 2 p.m., Dr. Franc Runk by 5:00, mag. Carmen Furman from 9 a.m. to 13 p.m., Nada Brinovšek from 9 a.m. to 13 p.m., Susana Lepi Šimenko from 9 a.m. to 13 p.m., Lidija Ivanuša from 9 a.m. to 14 p.m., Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti and Dušan Šiško and Jani Ivanuša. I welcome all those present once again! I understand that Mr Jani Ivanusha is with us, I apologize, very much welcome. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item — Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister for the internal affairs of Alesh Hoys. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Tashner Vatovci. In order to further explain the interpretation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Dr. Mate Tashner Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Dear Minister! Mr Aleš Hojs is, in our opinion, the embodiment of everything that is wrong with the current government. This is especially characterized by the fact that this government – and this also shows the work of Minister Hojs – is a government of power, as we have seen more than once in the various protests in this country. Powerful government is one of the main reasons why it has such low confidence in the public, why there is such confusion in the public, and why a large majority of people want early elections and a change of power. One of the main points we read in the interpellation is the creation of some extraordinary situation in the country by both the Government and its ministers. One of the main points in this matter is the so-called decision-making. We have seen that the Ministry of the Interior has also prepared, on several occasions at the time of the epidemic, decrees restricting public life, in particular the right of movement, resulting in a lot of bad will in the public, and in particular in the Constitutional Court, many of these decrees have fallen or been recognized as unconstitutional. Why the government would be very difficult to obtain in order to limit the epidemic in this National Assembly a majority, which would, of course, by means of such solutions as the Government proposes, be very difficult to drive through, because we have a minority coalition, which otherwise has some supporters in this National Assembly, which sometimes helps to reach the majority, but of course at a time when appropriate and, of course, sometimes difficult legislative proposals are needed, not enough to make such a procedure, which is otherwise normal in most countries, successful. That is why this government has decided to rule by decree. Such rulings not only show the weakness of a government, but also show that the government is in power. So when he can't do things through the National Assembly in some regulatory way, he's using the most undemocratic way of ruling that we can imagine, it's just that in the government, decisions are made. We continue to report to the Minister the excessive use of repressive means and police violence in the protests in Ljubljana. Of course, the protests that took place on October 5th, one of the major, not the biggest, recent protests in Ljubljana, when police in the middle of the day, without actually initiating serious violations of public order and peace, used excessive powers and police resources. Once again, in the centre of Ljubljana, water cannons began to be used, gas resources began to be used and, of course, public order and peace were so severely threatened by the police. We have seen the police gas the centre of Ljubljana, we have seen gas fields, children's playgrounds, we have seen scenes of older citizens leaving, for example, from shopping around the city's centre with handkerchiefs in front of their noses and mouths and running from these gas assets. At that moment, as was clearly evident from the course of the event, there were no serious incidents by the protestors. Here again, I would like to point out that, of course, we are not in any case advocating violence against the protests, but the police, apparently by policy order, have decided this time, because, of course, there was also a meeting of representatives of the European Union on the Hill, to force protestors, with some clear message that such things will not happen in Slovenia. Since the Minister is also responsible for the police, we are talking about the Director-General and other State Secretaries at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, they say that it was an extremely important and, of course, a security risk event, the use of this force was appropriate. I think it's necessary to throw it away. What was happening was a mere reflection of some force, some display of power, and, of course, some warning of what would happen to protestors in this country. Let me remind you at this point that at this time, even at the time of the epidemic, we witnessed more and more protests, where more people were present, and there were also roadblocks at these protests, and we have not actually seen such violence. So it could only be the conclusion that Minister Hojs and, of course, the people associated with him, with the influence on the police, wanted to show their power and give a clear message to the people in this country that the protests were no longer allowed. We have seen similar practices since the beginning of the epidemic, when people have been getting fines just because they put paper feet on public surfaces in Ljubljana and because they protested or even cycled. Under Minister Hojs, the protests became illegal, illegal. And anyone who imagines expressing a contrary position or criticism of a government is someone who needs to be deepened, if necessary, even back. These events from the 5 October protest also point to one other thing that we are reading from the proponents to Minister Hojs, which is the politicisation and militarisation of the police. Since we have this government and this minister, of course, some areas of legislation in this area have also been tightened up and additional powers have been given to the police, of course also additional equipment and additional resources, which essentially strengthens the role of the police as some really repressive apparatus of the state. The way in which this minister and the Director-General of the Police instrumentalize the police and use it primarily in protests to intimidate people and as a deterrent against the free expression of opinions is something that we know mainly in autocratic countries, where the police are activated in protest, so that, of course, not only dispels the crowds, but also makes it clear to these crowds that the protest is undesirable and, above all, it can be very dangerous. Similarly, we see ourselves where, in fact, with such militarisation and police politicization, some basic foundations of democracy, and especially the police themselves, are being harmed. There probably was no minister in this country who would have managed to unify two police unions, which are in principle on two coasts, which would have managed to unify a number of employees in the police force against each other. If it is likely that any of the ministers in this country who has made so much negative for the relationship of police officers to the Ministry and to the leadership of the police, it is Mr Aleš Hojs. We have seen a number of responses from police employees to what is happening, we are talking about personnel, including illegal police personnel, and we are changing, correcting legislation in such a way that the Director-General of Police, who, of course, was set up by the Minister of Home Affairs, could replace all the police chiefs in the country and so on. And that clearly triggered some serious opposition in the police force. Cops themselves say there's never been such a low job situation. In fact, there is one of those key points where it shows how Mr Aleš Hojs is a symptom of this government's functioning, how he is prepared to do everything he can to subordinate himself to the police. And that is probably one of the main objectives that this government has. I think we've already learned that they want to submit to each other's subsystems. And, of course, the police can't be excluded. All the exchanges of leading people in the police force have been considered. Remember at the beginning of this government's term of office, many exchanges at the head of the National Investigation Office until we reached the current NPU director who is so qualified that she wrote more than a few criminal charges in her criminal career and is, of course, in close relationships or close acquaintances with Mr. Rok Snezic. Such a situation, when it comes to the top of the state's roof investigative body, is someone who is connected to people who have helped in the disputed financing business of both SDS and, of course, Nove24, whose director, before becoming Minister, was Mr Aleš Hojs, is a sign that all the alarms in this country should ring. It is clear that subjugating the police is not just police control or instrumentalising the police to carry out some kind of violence, but more importantly, it can, of course, influence and control what is being done and how it is being investigated. That is why we have seen audits of certain procedures and re-checking procedures that have been or have been completed. Hence, we have seen how he can actually help his friends. Let us remember that Nova24, Mr Hojs's real project, when they were preparing investigations against the Minister for the Economy at the crime police station, was published on Novi24 one day before these investigations, a forecast and data on these investigations were published. This, of course, cannot be the case, as cannot be the case that the Minister of Economy had instructions on how to proceed in the event of a house investigation. All of this shows that subjugation by the police is a very clear sign that the SDS has literally kidnapped the country, kidnapped the country in such a way that it can move on with its work. Minister Hojs, at the last seventh point, is also suspected of having committed a crime or of abandoning the offence when he did not report a crime. I'm talking about the Visjak affair, of course. When the first video came to the public, of course, he immediately tweeted how he knew about this video and that it was, of course, an attack on a SDS client. Here we stress, if I were to know about this video, I should react as Minister of the Interior, if not otherwise, in a way that I would try to obtain it and that this matter is being investigated and perhaps also announced to the relevant authorities. The key to this is that, in fact, this one tweet has shown the essence of this domestic policy. Of course, Mr Vizjak is not only a ministerial but also a party colleague of Mr Hojs. We have seen many times that, of course, crows do not turn off their eyes. As the last point, I will also point out an underestimating and demeaning attitude towards the general public, particularly those that are critical to the Ministry's work and to the government's work as such. Surely we can all agree that Mr Hojs is one of the members of the Council of Ministers with the most sulphuric language on Twitter and also live, one of those who does not squander bad and ugly words through an independent institution, such as the Information Officer, the Constitutional Court and, of course, all those who are critical of the ministry's functioning under his tactics and the functioning of the government as such. This low level of communication is not a key issue; it is not the main problem of Minister Hojs, but it shows the extent to which this government operates, even though with low public support, although with a number of criticism, nothing will stop them from ignoring, of course, everyone who thinks otherwise, which is in fact a standstill of the SDS party since we have known them. In conclusion, once again, the way Minister Hojs works, by subjugating, subjugating, and of course ignoring all other thinkers, is not one thing that we should be appalled about, but one thing that we should be particularly concerned about. It appears to be a very specific and dangerous view of things. It shows how he understands the country, how he understands the portfolio it manages – just as a means of achieving his own goals. And when we put in the equation of a man who, through funding from abroad, said a New24 media house, indirectly also financed SDS's campaign and thereby played legislation, something that could of course be very dangerous. We are at this point when, of course, we have four months to go until the new elections, but in particular to prevent further and greater irreparable damage to these new elections. Of course, we propose that this assembly resolve the Minister of the Interior and say no to bad practices such as the subordination of independent authorities, the influence on the functioning of investigative bodies such as the Police, the Criminal Police, the National Investigation Office, and that it essentially ceases this domestic attitude towards everything that should be public and common.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. You received the Minister of the Interior's reply to the interpretation on 19 November. I now give the floor to Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior, to explain the written answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you very much for the opportunity to respond orally to the interpretation myself. First of all, I would like to thank the leadership of the National Assembly, which made it possible for me to do this today and not in the last week, when we had responsibilities related to the Presidency. Of course, in the introduction, I must also thank Mr Vatovac for his correct presentation. This presentation of him was completely different or entirely on a different level than it was a year ago. If you remember, I had to defend myself here a year ago in the introduction that I'm not a fascist, a Nazi, and so on. And as I said last year, the first one from this country was followed by Milošević, later last year by Mr German, this time Mr Vatovec is not, so thank you again. The only person who will take me out of this country right now, which is of course progress, is a political director who has passed his term of office and who, unfortunately, will no longer earn 25 000 euros a month. But these are the directors set by the political left. If I focus on interpolation itself, of course, I have to start by saying that, since I said it myself in response, I am assessing that the findings I am looking for in the interpolation are essential. Thus, Article 110 of the Constitution, in conjunction with Article 114 of the Constitution, clearly defines what are the responsibilities of the Minister and what are the responsibilities of the Government. A few of these readings written in the interpolation, of course, far exceeded my powers, so that the evidence, which was at least partly mentioned in this interpolation, could only be the subject of a constitutional accusation, not an interpolation. But no matter what, I'm going to try in those parts that are, as it were, too wide for interpolation, but I'm going to answer. First of all, I would like the Slovenian public to know what this government has done with these first revelations, which have been brought here in some way, i.e. the rule of decrees, with these decrees. So the first one that started by enforcing the decrees was the former Sharcha government. So I don't know why it's not now [on the projection], but at the end of March last year, the first two decrees adopted by the Sharčev government were decrees signed only by the Minister of Health. This somehow started ruling, with our government deciding otherwise Will it work? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u5	Mr. Secretary, he's on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u6	But only on the side, okay, then I have to look here. Thank you. So, after that, our government decided to bring this governance or action at the time of the epidemic to a higher level, so that the decision would be broader, and decided that we would adopt these decisions at the level of the government, that is, no longer just the Minister of Health or only the Minister of Health, but that each individual minister proposed, and then, of course, the Government accepted it. Whether this is legal or not, the Constitutional Court said. It has been said that some things need to be enforced by law and not just by decrees, and it is clear, of course, that or, when you are here in the respected National Assembly, you will have to overcome so much wisdom and adopt an appropriate law on communicable diseases, the government can also do so. But until the government can do so, because there is no new law, we will continue to issue decrees. I have to make it clear here that I'm not sorry for any of the people I suggested. This government has always taken the view that content is more important than some legal formality. Last but not least, if you follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court, you will be able to see that, in fact, they didn't cancel the material things anywhere, but they just talked about how all things are needed, but that they should be recorded in the law. In order not to be a dilemma as to how this has taken place across Europe, you have here a map that clearly shows that in some countries, what should we call the nuclear states or how you have already talked about these countries, namely France, Italy and so on, during the epidemic they were controlled by decrees, and in some countries by a combination of both, so with laws and decrees, these were mainly Germany and partly Austria. Of course, all of them looked to limit the number of covid’s victims to the greatest extent possible. I must say that I am sure that the measures we have taken as a government have reduced the number of victims by hundreds and hundreds. And if I had to make another decision, of course, I would also have decided to adopt a decree, not just as the opposition did - to break the government's efforts all the time, to mine everything the Government has proposed, even at the cost of the victims, even at the cost of a large number of people in the hospital today, and also at the cost of many, unfortunately, having to die because of their position. First of all, I must say that what is evident in the interpretation is that people are confused and that they do not know how and what was going on is due to the decision of the Constitutional Court. So the first features that we adopted in the Government were the rulings that were valid until things changed or that the Government decided otherwise, but the Constitutional Court felt otherwise, ordered us to check every week whether the decree was still in force and to write a new one every week. So this was nowhere in European practice. But given that, as I said, we respect the opinion of the Constitutional Court or their decisions, we have also done so. Of course it is hard for people, it is clear, every week read the Official Journal, because the websites, as the Constitutional Court said, are not credible, you have to look at the Official Journal, only there can you determine whether something is true or not. But no matter what, the government did it because, as it was said, the Constitutional Court imposed it. Now, actually, let's go to the content of these decrees a little bit longer. Mr Vatovec said in the introduction that some of the rulings under the responsibility of the MNZ on the Government were also proposed on my part. Here. These were specifically those decrees, or not specifically those, but only those decrees that somehow limited the movement of people at the time of the epidemic, and the decrees that regulated the possibility of trespassing, that is, entry and exit, state borders. Interestingly, last year's decree, which restricted the movement of citizens to the most critical extent, was that decree, which in fact limited the possibility of moving through municipalities, that the Constitutional Court found that it was in conformity with the Constitution. So there was nothing wrong with that decision. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court of U1-83/20 of 17. 8. 2020. So this decree is not inconsistent with the Constitution. Why did we then decide to take such a relatively sharp action? This measure was, in its entirety, extremely correct. There were no vaccines at the time, people had no chance of being protected in any other way. Of course, the only measure in the fight against this virus was the mention of association, the limitation of gathering, and to a large extent also contributed to the restriction of movement. Why is the Constitutional Court only 10? 5. 2021, so almost a year later, by its decision UV97/20 decided and repealed Article 39, second and third, I do not know. If it first stated that the decree was in conformity with the Constitution, it was almost a year later that it was necessary to correct Article 39(2) and (3). In this case, of course, it did not give any task to the Government, but it was given to you, honourable Members and Members. So it took two months for this U.N.B. to improve properly. Why is that after a year, I don't know. As it is said, I repeat, however, it can, of course, be my conclusion or question, but perhaps the Constitutional Court, after a long time or after that time, has found that it is necessary to help politically break, incapacitated and destructive opposition in its struggle to regain power. So, no matter what, the duties of the National Assembly have unfortunately not been performed. As you know, the Government has submitted the law to the National Assembly, and the coalition has also had a serious intention to adopt this law, but because of the opposition we have in the National Assembly, the 43 Members who have also signed under my interpretation have estimated that they prefer more victims than to properly regulate legislation and thus, in some way, legalise the way for the adoption of decisions. So this law has not yet been passed. I've said the solution several times. As you know, in the case of the so-called disobedience of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court has the power to adopt legislation only, i.e. the Constitutional Court, in view of the fact that they have proved themselves to be extremely perceptive epidemiologists on several occasions, they knew very precisely what was necessary in this epidemiological situation, whether or not they should have just adopted the law today, as in the case of the establishment of one of the Slovenian municipalities. Why doesn't the Constitutional Court do that, I don't know. Perhaps the question I raised earlier is still in place, so whether it is necessary to help the left hand, which somehow, as I said, is destroying everything that this government has prepared. As regards violent protests and what has been stated repeatedly in several places in the interpretation, I will therefore join together. It is the activation of Article 9 of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police. As regards the legal aspect, it is undeniable that the government had this possibility of activating this Article. The undeniable fact is that the security assessments made by the police at the time of the meeting on 5 and 6 October, before the summit of the European Union, focused strongly on what could have been seen in two cases of violent demonstrations earlier, that is, 14 days or a week earlier. This is, for example, one of Mr Stevanovic's calls, I believe it is written by Stevanovic, who called for violence. Take the streets, park the cars where you want, Petrol is ours, the streets are ours and so on. The police made a security assessment where they assessed the need to protect this big event at a high level. Finally, it must also be said that at that time it was found that many who had in the past encouraged violence, from Anisa Ličina, then that rapper, as it was written, Zlata Čordić, even during that week called for the people of these violent demonstrations to attend, a week earlier or 14 days earlier, granite cubes also flew through the windows of this respected National Assembly. The police therefore assessed the need to adequately protect this summit and, as the legislation allowed, I myself proposed that for a relatively short period of time, i.e. for a period of two days, 5 and 6 October, the movement in the field of the work of Ljubljana, Bled and Predosel pri Kranj should be limited. Unlike previous legislation, this legislation also provides legal protection for such a decision. The previous legislation did not allow this, and this legislation makes it possible. Perhaps only for comparison, for the first time such a measure was adopted, in force in 1989, when the then internal minister Ertl used a similar dictatorship to limit or signal clearly to those who wanted to protest against Slovenia alone in the market there. At that time, you know, this article of the law was enforced, and the police then did their work as well as this time, with one great difference, that this time there was actually incidents, violence and so on, and so on, the police did not have this work, because mostly they had a lot of work done at that announced rally already by Slovenian railwaymen, who all those who wanted to get to Ljubljana simply did not come to this town. In view of the fact that I have said that legal protection is possible for this law or this article, it must be made clear that no one — that is, I have no information — may be found — even though the deadline is long past, no one has enforced this legal protection. Clearly, then, no one in the country felt hurt to challenge that decision. It would be possible to challenge this in a competent court, but no one did, so I am still convinced that this decision was the right one. On this slide [[Showing the Congregation]] We have been presented with the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. Two of the authors of this law, or the comments of this law, are today key whisperers of the transition left, and perhaps another party, Mrs Tatjana Bobnar, who is still employed in the Police, and Mr Miroslav Zaberl. Both of them, or those who wrote this or comment, explained extensively how, with the legal aspects of this article, the law, the protection of rights in the event of the application of this law, and made it clear that there is no doubt that such an arrangement is permissible and possible. In view of the fact that, if you remember then, Mayor Jankovic did not give a word, for example, that he urged people not to protest or break down and so on, it was clear, of course, that the police had to take these measures, which also limited movement. None of the police have ever received any instructions on the use of any means in advance. This guidance has always been given by the direct manager of the operational action itself, the person responsible for this action at the Operations and Communication Centre. And, of course, it is clear that after it was announced or almost seen that this protest would again go into some kind of violence - it began by surrounding one of the protocol vehicles of one of the statesmen who were on their way to Brdo - the police, or its chief or chief of operational headquarters, issued appropriate orders and the police, as they say, carried out the matter extremely well, professionally, according to my assessment. Last but not least, as I have said many times before, what Mr Vatovec said at the outset - that I congratulated the police for an extremely good action, that it was not just the congratulations left, but that all the officers involved in that action have also been properly rewarded, which is allowed by law. If we walk forward through interpellation, of course, I must say that one of the essential things that has been mentioned today is the politicisation of the police. I've never dealt with police politicization myself. Mr. Vatovec said I've united the two unions. So he obviously knows that these two unions are on different shores. I don't know how, but political thinking or how, I don't know. I've always dealt with police having as much pay as possible, as much equipment as possible to be properly rewarded for my work. And I have to say, to a large extent, I did it. With the adoption of the new law, police will receive higher salaries as of January; unlike earlier, those with lower wages and lower heights will receive higher salaries. But if someone in this country wanted to politicize the police, they're probably LMSH and SD clients, the first with a picture I'm showing here. During the term of office of the LMŠ, the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, allowed himself something that no one in this country has allowed. He even came to the union election convention. Can you imagine? It's a little bit worse to see here, but if we took a closer look, we'd see that they have the results of the elections written on the slide. So he participated in an election convention with one of the unions. Of course, there was also the then police or internal minister, Mr Poklukar. Now I don't know about Mr Poklukar whether he was the first interior minister or not who was at such trade fairs or congresses, but certainly Mr Marjan Sarec was the first to allow himself to do so. As far as the union is concerned, of course, it is necessary to say in the introduction here, of course I will probably have the opportunity to confirm again today, of course it is very difficult to defend or defend myself against media spins, which are somehow produced by transit ballots, here, of course, in the minds of Youth and Uncensored, when months and months say that I told the police that they were lazy or mushy, of course, it is difficult to defend it, given that this lie is repeated day by day. That's why I'm going to make it clear here again. That they're lazy, I've told the union leaders, and that they should start working, and of course I think today, I'll tell them why. But they're snotty, and I also told the union leaders, because based on the meeting we had, they weren't prepared to invite the cops to the vaccine, they weren't. They preferred to file constitutional complaints, they preferred to see that we have hospitals full of people, that we have more dead, rather than simply being called on to say, go and vaccinate all those working in these public services. And look, even the decision taken by the Constitutional Court in this regard, I can somehow generate on what I have already said. The Constitutional Court has not stated that there is a substantive problem if the government decides or in this case you are the National Assembly so that all those employed by the police should be vaccinated or overcame. No, she said it was perfectly okay, just that it was necessary to adopt it by law. But what about the law, of course, I said at the beginning of this presentation. In view of the fact that I gave this impression to these union leaders, of course, it may be necessary to clarify the matter a little further. Then, of course, when the plasma of accusations came out of my statement, I went even deeper into their work. What encouraged me to pay attention to their wrongdoing? I was encouraged by the fact that when you remember the Members leaving the National Assembly here, in this case everyone, not only on the right or on the left, but in fact, as I know, threatened everyone. The police union has made a statement that it is wrong for Members not to be adequately protected to lead the police. Can you imagine? It's the police leadership's fault that the operative officer in the field didn't react. Then I went to see how much our unionists were actually doing to you. And you'll be surprised, nothing, police unionists do nothing. Then I went to look at the collective agreement. And the collective agreement states that police unionists have a chance to do more than 50% of the union work, so more than 50% is also 51%. But look at the fraction, these gentlemen have been doing nothing but union work for years. And you know whose account? On our account to the taxpayers' account. This is the last time I answered Mrs. Sukič. We have one extremely well-known unionist in this country, Mr Strukl, who also does nothing but deal with unionism, but well, there's a union paying for it itself. And I don't mind them doing the union work in full, either, but have them pay for it themselves. With one big difference, according to my opinion, police officers in the 100 percent union work within the police can't do it, because in this case, unfortunately, these people haven't done it for years, don't shoot, don't train and don't do it. So they're no longer, if I say domestically, fit to properly exercise police powers. And look at the fraction, I already got a letter from both unions on the table last week, and they say all of a sudden that it would be no, otherwise, first I got a letter, where they listed it, I think each of the unions of 12, 13 police officers, under terms of course, who would only do 100 percent union work. [[…]] When I made this public in this assembly or publicly answered the question, I received their letter two days ago, where suddenly they are no longer willing to do this work 100 percent – they have apparently found that it is not possible that they will have to blink a little, but they will have to train a little, and so on - that now they would only do it 85 percent. In the coming days, if, of course, I remain here, I will propose an annex to the collective agreement. I believe we can work this out. And it will become more or less clear that everything that gentlemen unionists have done this year and a half has been illegal. In particular, all those who, despite failing to carry out appropriate education, training, police powers have been held in violation of the rules of the profession. If I could just focus for a moment on what I didn't answer in response to the interpolation. Well, perhaps it is also necessary to say about these protests that the police have proposed to the administrative unit not to issue a permit for these protests, given that violence or violent protests had already been committed 14 days ago. Very similar to what the police have reacted to in the case of RTV. At that time, we have forgotten this a little bit, but it is right to remember, during the protests before RTV, which culminated in the last violent incursion into Radiotelevision, of course, in that violent incursion, the police did the right thing, and later, as a minister, I was thanked by the director of public Radiotelevision for successfully incriminating the possibility of an escalation of violence inside the house. But you must not forget that all those protests took place with Mr Jankovic's permission. Mr Jankovic gave them his consent to stand there and protest. The police have suggested three times that this should be banned, the administrative unit has not reacted, the chief of the administrative unit, I think it's Bojan Babič or somehow it's written like that, so I don't know if it's LMSH, I don't know whose it is, why it didn't do it, I don't know. He did it only after, you can imagine, after they actually forced themselves into RTV. Then Jankovic revoked his consent first, and Bojan Babič banned the protest. So I'm really wondering if it's necessary for violence to occur, that we're not able to get together and that kind of violence to stop before it happens. But given what happened on RTV, I felt, of course, perfectly correct that the police assessed that the security risk in the October 5th protests was so great that insurance was needed as it had been carried out. And there's something else that needs to be added. The October 5th protest was not Wednesday, so everyone's talking about it being some sort of middle protest. On 5 October, on the basis of a call from the parties Resni.ca were moved from Wednesday to Tuesday or even more, he said, we will meet on Tuesday and Wednesday. So why? Because they knew that it was necessary to make a barn, that there was a need to make a mess in order to give European leaders a signal how incompetent that government was, how unable to protect such a high event. Of course, I must mention this, that the police did not look back on the nebulosis we heard, in the sense of the Street are ours! This was one of the slogans with which those Friday's protestors later tried to distance themselves from Stevanovic. So it's actually very similar or almost the same group. So everyone said the streets were ours, knowing that, of course, the streets weren't theirs, not ours, but they were streets of everyone. So these slogans are very much like those fascists when the fascists were walking and talking about whose streets they were. But you need to know that this password was first used by Friday's protests, later by these mid- or Tuesday protestors. And, of course, it's clear that it's actually the same base. It is about how, as I would say, to take power in a violent way, given that it was simply not possible to go through legal channels within this Parliament. Now for the completion of a few quick slides. So, of course, it's about the obvious about mandates, the evidence of politicisation and so on. All we've done at the Ministry is, of course, the continuity of the procedures that have taken place before us. Here's a letter. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u7	Mr Minister [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u8	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u9	I'm sorry, but you can't see your slides just as a warning because your computer went off in the middle. [[…]] We can wait until things are settled, but you can continue. As you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u10	Will you be quick?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u11	You'll also get your time back, of course. [[advertising from the hall]] It's not a problem. For the record, you've had a good two minutes, Mr. Minister, at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you. If I keep going where I ended up. Everything we have done in this ministry, of course, does not mean a section or something completely new, it is things that are somehow continuing. What ministers have done before, of course, must be taken into account, so it is everywhere in democracy. Here, for example, you have the mandatory instructions of Mr Poklukar, where he said how the mandates should be regulated and how the NPU should be properly placed in the Ministry area. Of course, he did all this on the basis of a police proposal. This was suggested by Mrs Tatjana Bobnar that there should be no dilemma. And maybe, for the record, this. This is already quite old, but it still comes from, also from the left political option, so, relocation, what is evident today is very current in the fact that the Ministry of Internal Affairs subordinates itself to human resources logistics and I don't know what kind of job it is, it didn't happen on our lawn. This was actually transferred back in 2010, at the time of Katarina Kresal. I must say that, of course, in this case, I absolutely agree with what she has done. The police are not the ones who would, in their own way, order goods, services, or in small kindergartens. The police are there to exercise their powers, and the Ministry of the Interior is, of course, the one who must ensure all that the police can do, give them appropriate infrastructure and, of course, also provide appropriate legal and formally correct criteria of employment, so I think that everyone here is concerned that anyone wants to submit to the police is redundant. At the end - half a minute - I thank you for the possibility of this half-time presentation on interpolation. Of course, I'll be able to say more later when the time is right. However, I hope, given that I am also in favour of a change this time, because I am not familiar with your rules of procedure, I have also read carefully enough of the procedures that you have in the National Assembly that this time, as I know, it will not be a problem for the tired left to knock on tables after 10 p.m., to threaten the one who runs the National Assembly. I believe that we will also be working after 22 p.m. today, and in view of the announced 17 hours, we will also conclude this interpretation today. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. Yes, in explanation, the National Assembly never needs a special permit for plenary sessions, while the work of committees and commissions requires this. Just to clarify. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Predrag Baković, who will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u14	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We already have a second interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs. This did not happen because of the inadequacy of the opposition, but let us give Mr Hojs a little bit of interpretation just because he has made a few minor mistakes or irregularities as a minister. Not to mention the fact that Mr Hojs had raised his hands and given up on the ministry before, exactly 15 months ago. According to one logic and political practice, it would therefore be expected that the Minister of the Ministry would actually leave, but that did not happen. It already shows some specialty in his ministry. It is clearly not a derogation, but rather an additional motivation for access to the opportunity to do what is right and also what is not, even though both the Constitution and the laws oppose it. All with one goal, which is not the goal of chance, but the clear intention of the current government to implement its policy of dealing with the epidemic – to bring all the forced apparatus under control and to manage it by force with disobedient citizens and citizens. This intention leads the minister so strongly that he and his associates do not stop even the increasing retention of the legislation adopted by the Constitutional Court and also the unconstitutionalities actually found. It is not stopped by the indignation of the crowd, it is not finally stopped by the devastating numbers of the bad epidemiological situation, for which the minister finds always a convenient excuse. It's the protesters, it's the opposition's fault, it's everyone who's critical to the work of this government, who's critical to the work of the minister. The banalisation of the state in the country and the generalisation of anything that is not in the best interest of the minister has been very convenient since the beginning of his ministry. It's about polarization tactics by model. It's all black or white, good or bad. However, Mr Hojs and his close associates are presenting themselves as good knights who will save the country from the evil forces of protests and firefighters. In no society of problems can be solved by swinging a magic wand, the minister tries to solve these problems by means of his benevolent power of decrees. These are accepted overnight. There was only questionable debates around them, but the Constitutional Court added unconstitutionality to the question of decisions in large cases. Just last week, at the request of the Court to assess the constitutionality of the handcrafty and, in our opinion, a fully politically motivated Law on Organising and Working in the Police, suspended the implementation of the provisions of the law allowing staff clearance and policy intervention to the police. And after every decision of the Constitutional Court, which is contrary to the expectations of the Minister, a layer of cynical, urban and inappropriate, both the Minister and the President of the Government and others, who play a more or less important role in this government or in this political option, is being inserted. Of course, we are far from the fairy tales the Minister wants to tell. Rumors about the rudeness of the opposition and the vast majority of the lay and professional public, drawing attention to the side of the minister's work. The contents and arguments of this interpolation point to a broader and increasingly clear picture of the functioning of this government than that each Minister of Government is given a specific task or a secret mission, irrespective of the powers they are subject to. In the case of Mr Hojs, this is a clear and unequivocal objective of the full control of the repressive authorities for forced management, first of all an epidemic, which is, of course, the fault of citizens and citizens, not the government, but also for the further general management of the country. For this, in the notes, the bankruptcy management carried out by this government, the epidemic is not even the cause of the problem, for which the biggest problem is the insubordination of people who simply do not understand the desire and desire of the government to be the best recipe for all the problems encountered by the police and the autonomous management of all our country's appliances. People should not even dare to think differently about it. However, if they dare to do so, there will be a ruthless reckoning with them through all possible channels and areas. In such cases, the non-observants are waiting for discredits, warnings before the loss of their jobs, they are facing a public lynching through tweets, not even any party February, for example under the nickname Kopriva, but under the personal name of Mr Hojs or his superior. The hierarchy of governance is very clear, unequivocal and command-oriented. At the same time, the autonomy of the authorities and institutions is also, in the case of the police, Mr Hojs, otherwise I can't explain myself, interpreting in a very narrow way, autonomy in the decision – whether obedience to current authority or expulsion from the employment radar, union involvement and so on. Not to mention the inconceivable underestimation of the majority of citizens and citizens who have, for a year and a half, expressed a negative view of the government's work if you want to take part in those peaceful protests. Social democracy, or the Social Democrats, we agree with experts that within two years, the Coronavirus epidemic has seriously affected all people, children, adolescents, working people and older people. And instead of the virus being our only real threat, which has to be overcome jointly, it's not. Of course, with the help of the Minister of the Interior, with each new day of her term, the government is only further increasing the repression of citizens and citizens. Instead of taking control of the epidemic through calm and stimulating rhetoric, the tactics of threats and rulings that were adopted late in the evening and also published on Twitter led people to the point that anger, dissatisfaction, disappointment and fear began to express themselves in protest. Even though the government is still working with the PKP to alleviate the growing dissatisfaction and people through adopted anti-Korona laws to bribe, it is not doing well. Indeed, our citizens and citizens are still aware that every euro given will have to be returned twice. The special story is, of course, also the activation of Article 9 of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police. With the help of the Minister, the government has activated Article 9 of the Act. By doing so, it protected people from themselves, which is in itself a kind of paradox, extending its manoeuvre and the space of the competent Minister of Home Affairs to limit or prohibit the movement in certain areas, designated places or public places or to prohibit accommodation in a particular place or the abandonment of a particular place, and of course after, for the first time in Slovenia alone, a few months, we were closed within the borders of municipalities and regions. We have a lot of these for the first time under Mr. Hoys' ministry. For the first time and in the light of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is likely that this is the last time. Of course, the minister is categorically rejecting all evidence in response to interpolation. It rejects the statement of responsibility for excessive use of repressive means and forces at protests in Ljubljana. Even though the Commission, drawn up on a proposal from the Director-General of the Police, has identified some burdensome irregularities, it rejects the fact that one political party, by amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and work of the police, wants to subordinate itself to the police. She rejects the fact that she has been searching for hockey exchanges and has only found a receptive and obedient police director. He's rejecting the fact that he's subordinated to the National Investigation Office. It rejects, in general, the obvious and increasingly irrefutable evidence of police politicisation, which has been reached by an investigative commission investigating the suspicions of unacceptable political interference with police work. Of course, it's hard to admit such deviations, such an anomaly. It is better to deny all things at the cost of the rule and the holding of power. Especially when it comes to meddling with the police, which was a repressive body, always in the service of residents and residents of Slovenia. And the people and residents of Slovenia trusted the police – until recently. This is illustrated by the results of a public opinion survey carried out every two years by the police. The survey, which included a good 11,000 respondents and was made in March this year, showed that the results in key items were lower than two years earlier. Only 20.1% of respondents are trusted by the police and 49.3% in 2016. Fifty percent of the respondents don't trust or trust the police. So, 24% and 25%. Five years ago, only 15% of those were weak. I wonder what the results would be today, especially since many police officers, former colleagues, leaders and others are addressing me, serving bread with work in this once venerable and proud service. And all of them know that the materials of working conditions are good, but so bad, as far as the state of the spirit in the police and the fear of losing their jobs by expressing opinions, criticism or discontent, have not yet been. Not even in the former Yugoslav common country. The former Director-General of the Police also expressed concern about the decline of the confidence of the people and residents in the police. She stressed that confidence in the police was built over a longer period of time and that building trust was also one of her tasks in a rich police career. For the sake of good evaluation and high confidence, the people and residents are all police personnel, both the first police officer and everyone else on the ground. Finally, the Minister of the Interior should look after the reputation of the police in protecting its credibility. Surely this principle was not followed by the minister with his Twitter fast fingers. We heard it at the time of his ministry of various designations, from sloths and boars, which he has explained in some way today, but it is not an apology and it cannot be. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, the interpretation is written on the basis of reliable data, testimony, media records, but the Minister will continue to rush us along with coalition MPs and Members, or he wants to convince us that he is not only a victim, but the disgruntled and angry people of Slovenia are responsible for everything he had to do to protect people. As he probably had to, and he still has to do everything in his power today to bring the government in line with the police, and RTV and the list are quite long. Therefore, there is no doubt that this time we will also support the reinterpelling of Mr Aleš Hojs from the City of the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukič will present her position next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Good-bye! If anyone, it's Minister Hoys who embodys everything that's wrong with this government. Minister Hojs is certainly the most controversial, insulting, provocative, choleric, so at the hearing he marked himself, and the authoritarian minister, the minister who established a completely unacceptable political discourse. Minister Hojs also loves Twitter on an equal footing, through which he deals sarcastically and utterly with unruly citizens, in every way possible he discredits the unionist police, being lazy and smug and so on. Even today, he's been lying and banging on the unionists if they don't do anything like cops and eat our taxpayer's money. Apparently, the Minister does not know the third paragraph of Article 89 of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police, which clearly states that a union confidant can perform a professional work. He also obviously does not know Article 45 of the Collective Treaty on Non-economic Activities, which says the same. Hoys knows that, of course. I'm guessing he knows what the core is and the essence of the union work and the union struggle. Every little person in sight knows that. Yet again, it is easier, and today's interpolation uses to continue the mud and discrediting of critical trade unionists. Well, to go on, Minister Hoys directly adores the pearly yellow vests, the idolaters of Hitler, who according to the minister's assessment are a shame to throw themselves among the pigs' aliases of protestors. The Minister loves them so much that the three leading police officers of Ljubljana, Glavic, Chulku and Isic, with the help of a faithful supporter Dr. Olaj, sent a written warning against the regular cancellation of violations of the employment contract only because they had defied these Hojs pearls from the Prešeren market in Ljubljana, so that they would have protected public order and peace too often. Of course, we understand why Prime Minister Janša did not open the envelope with the minister's irrevocable resignation. Hojs, however, is the ideal executor of Janša's girdle ideas, how with some kind of blitzkrieg to orbanize the country and from democracy to create an autocracy, which today is fashionably called iliberal democracy. And if anyone may still have any further doubts, after the events of October 5th this year, all alarms should be ringing in the country. On October 5th, when Minister Hojs was so excited after the total incineration of Ljubljana, the people were thrilled to hear that in Slovenia we finally received a modern police force instead of the former human militia. In Levica, together with the opposition parties, the right ones, not the collaborators, today's interpolation is 7 points, and each one of them is enough for himself to have to cancel the minister long ago. We acknowledge Minister Hojs' politicalization and militarisation of the police, as well as his responsibility for the illegal limitation of human rights through the incorrect implementation of article 9 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. We are convinced that Hojs bears not only objective responsibilities for police violence in the protests in Ljubljana, but also subjectively influenced such police tactics. We are convinced that the demands for increased repression come from the state summit, in particular from Prime Minister Janez Janša and SDS President Janez Janša and SDS Vice President Aleš Hojs. We also acknowledge Minister Hojs' humiliating, ignorant and unprofessional attitude towards the general and professional public, protesters, employees of the police and the NPU, representatives of trade unions and independent state authorities, who in any way point out the illegal and unconstitutional conduct of the minister. In Levica, we are convinced that the emergency situation is planned by the government or created primarily by Prime Minister Janša and Minister Hojs. As it is said, on 5 October, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, the Minister activated Article 9 of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police and restricted the movement in Ljubljana, Bled and around Brdo. By doing so, the government and the Ministry of the Interior actively promote unrest in the country and create an climate that is becoming literally unsustainable. In addition, the Minister is also suspected of having committed a crime or of abandoning the offence of not reporting the crime of Minister Viszak, who he himself said was aware of the stupid tax affair. The crown of the Ministry of Vision, which, due to the hypocrisy of the party of NSI, survived its interpretation on Friday, the famous Visiak statement, “will already blow the balls of the judge”, from the stupid tax affair essentially shows how this government works. By force, he subjugates the judiciary, the police, the media. Such a government in every normal democratic country should have given up a long time ago, which in the case of the Janša government, which seems to it to be the Mafia and authoritarian methods of ruling something most self-sustaining under the sun, is a pure illusion. In this perverse fashion, Minister Hojs, our modern-day interpolator, does not seem to be the most problematic of Vision's corruption, but rather the alleged blackmail with the recording. Worse yet, Minister Hojs reacted to the publication of recordings on social networks in his own, cynical and obscene way, strongly spiced with conspiracy theory in the world of Janša's eternal Udbomafian media. I quote: “For many years, the ear of Minister Vissiak has been presented to me before the time, with a warning that he will be shown and used at the right time to destroy him and the Government of RS. Even if they were leading the case from the Quitter logs, I was told. If we follow their portals, radios, and press, everything is clear. ” [[...]] According to Minister Hojs' statement, there is a suspicion that when he failed to declare, when he did not report the crime or the perpetrator, he committed the crime himself. Such conduct is totally unacceptable and clearly reflects the Minister's unacceptable attitude towards the rule of law. Remember, in some cases, with the help of the illegal director-general of the NPU, Petre Grah Lazar, who has written more than nothing in her current career, says 1 criminal complaint, has prevented the prosecution of his coalition or client friends. He prevented it simply by unlawfully removing the Director of the NPU Male, by suspending the call for the Director of the NPU, to which Petra Grah Lazar had not even applied, and by withdrawing from Tacen the top criminalist Antolovič and Kekca, who conducted investigations against Minister Resting and international fraud and criminal Rok Snezic, who, by the way, is a personal friend of the new director of the NPU. How convenient. He prevented the SDS Nova24TV client trumpet, which was announced by the director prior to the appointment of Minister Hojs, the day before the Minister’s investigation, and the minister received a letter of instructions on how to act and acted. So let's say he didn't trust the criminals with the password of his cell phone, which he then dropped off on the taxpayers' expense of unlocking abroad. And the time to survive this kleptopathic coalition, this tripod cosa nostra, has thus been appropriately extended. In the case of the Minister of Vision, however, the prosecution prevented him from reporting the crime at all. It's an elegant solution. But a drop over the edge for today's interpolation came before the minister's crime. She came straight from the water cannon. In Levika, we requested the Minister's defence immediately after the October 5th protests, when the smell of tear gas was not even good in Ljubljana. On that black Tuesday, Hojs' slavers fired 400 tear gas canisters at the lower city centre of the capital in a few hours of unbridled savagery, as we have not yet experienced in the present or previous country, and the water cannon was sprayed after Ljubljana at 5 p.m. On 5 October, it became definitive and brutally clear that the government no longer hides its desire for repression. On October 5th, exactly what we already knew was confirmed. The inevitable escalation of violence that is openly challenged by the authorities to rule with an even stronger hand — so hard that the people fear it. The government is planning to create a state of emergency, and at the top of everything is Minister Hojs. Under his authority, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, the Government has activated police powers to prohibit movement in public places in Ljubljana, Bled and around Brda pri Kranju. And then the inhabitants of Ljubljana, as we know, were awaiting a barricaded centre of the city, a thousand policemen, cavalry and police dogs, and an infamous water cannon. At 5 p.m., the police, along with random passersby along the Slovenian road, launched this cannon, which vomited a mixture of tear gas and water instead of water. There was a few days of hunting in the centre of Ljubljana, and police, as it was said, panicked or following instructions, have never released the ever-seen amounts of tear gas, according to reports of 400 missiles that have flooded the entire city centre. Human rights standards require the use of tear gas to be proportionate. The tear in the eyes of the elderly, the school children, and the random passersby who found themselves in the middle of town that black Tuesday, that's not. In Slovenia we also had ten times the number of protests in the last two years, which also blocked the Slovenian or Celovska road in Ljubljana on Fridays, and held completely peaceful and no incidents. That was not the case on October 5th, the widespread chaos created by this government and the police, which was more than clearly ordered to escalate conflicts. Clearly, the authoritarian regime is left with no alternative to blind violence at its exhales. Both the government and the Ministry of the Interior are actively promoting unrest in the country and creating an increasingly unsustainable climate and transforming Slovenia into a police state, which is being embodyed by Hojs's fertilisation against freedom of speech and Hojs' political submission to the police. On the basis of these and justified reasons, and taking into account the fact that the Minister has been irrevocably withdrawing from the functions of the Minister of the Interior 15 months ago, we propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that Aleš Hojs relieve the agony and relieve him of his duties as Minister of the Interior. Today's vote will be another opportunity for us all to show that we want a rule of law and a normal Slovenia before the upcoming elections. And to dispel all the dilemmas, including today's abstinence vote for Minister Hojs, is a vote for the persistent undermining of democratic standards, is a vote for autonomous, partisan, corrupt, harmful, untransparent and even illegal conduct that Minister Hojs makes and applies, is a voice against integrity and the highest ethical standards in politics, is a vote for submission, discipline and brutal cleansing in the police and the NPU and is a vote for violence and terror against the people, over Hojs's disruptive employees in the Police, over police unionists. Does it even make sense to expect anything from the central NSI, which is right for citizens who want politicians with integrity, politicians who fight against corruption and not for corruption, politicians who understand the Holy Grail of Democracy to respect the rule of law and the protection of human rights? NSI plays a double game and shows us the middle again at key moments. However, when NSI is absolutely responsible for private buyers with public-owned companies, the call for tax evasion and the hatching of eggs to judges. When it comes to appetites after the privatisation of health or militarisation of Slovenian society, they are even worse than SDS and, on the other hand, they are trying to sell for some civilized central alternative by Janez Janša. But that doesn't convince anyone. Matthew Tonin, from his arrogant governmental position, apparently believes that to make NSIs central or digital or green, it is enough to make a few tweets and piarian phrases on an ad hoc basis. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You have one last chance in the NS today in this catastrophic mandate to deny me with the support of interpretation. In Levica, of course, we will support Minister Hojs' interpretation unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u18	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Honourable Minister Aleš Hojs, respected and respected assembly, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! The Group of Members and Members, who signed under the reinterpretation of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs, apparently lives in a parallel world of life in a bubble where only one of them can rule, on the other hand blurred a clear view of the world and, above all, the care of their own country. The covida-19 epidemic brought our health system right before the collapse. Despite the burnout, our health workers still battle battle battles with insidious, invisible enemies. Sometimes, however, it seems as if the enemy is not alone, sometimes the virus seems to have silent, non-cool support for those who oppose and mine the basic measures that our health workers repeat daily with a tired voice. The epidemic has not only changed life in Slovenia, but has cut deep into all pores across the globe. The measures against the invisible enemy in Slovenia do not deviate significantly from neighbouring countries, but there is a substantial, substantial difference in the political behaviour of opposition parties abroad. There we do not find such opposition to the measures of the profession, the active support of Members in the protests and slogans “Schools without masks” because they are aware that liking does not bring prosperity to their own country, but they are fully aware that they should take the same health measures themselves. The undignified conduct of the opposition KUL, which seeks to create a confusion of the Babylonian dimension, not because of the welfare of citizens and citizens, but because of its own calculus and its unwavering longing for its own rule. When he fails to understand, the letters, according to the dictatorship of the second smallest party of the KUL, are passed on to the opposition in the form of a second interpretation of the work and responsibility of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs. Let us make it clear to the public that the first interpellation to the minister was marked by a possible unplayed concert, which in those difficult times became a first-class political issue. Today, the current government, which has taken an oath in difficult times, and Minister Hojs, are reportedly deliberately creating chaos and an emergency situation in the country. Government activity in the health, social and economic fields. By doing so, we are enlightening the truth that all measurement indicators of prosperity are at the very top of the European Union. While left parties mainly talk about how to work, we work in New Slovenia and the coalition. With a great deal of patience, perseverance, and not giving up on ideological conflicts, Minister John Cigler the King succeeded in preparing a Christmas gift after two decades — a long - term supply law was passed to provide for all who need help. The ministry under Janez Brickler the King has allocated five times more resources to old people's accommodations than at any government since 2008. They accelerated the construction of a home for the elderly in Vrtojba, Municipality of Kozje and elsewhere. In the coming years, however, more than €50 million will be shared and additional funding from the European Funds. Among other things, the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec signed an agreement with the municipalities of Ljubljana and Maribor on free transport with city buses for pensioners and pensioners over 65 years of age, veterans of war and disabled persons. At the end of August 2021, works for the construction of the third development axis, which are a key moment in the development of the region of Koroška and its integration with the central part of Slovenia. The achievements of New Slovenia ministers are still enormous. Why am I listing them? Because society's progress and development potential can only be achieved where working people feel safe from attacks by individual violence groups that do not respect order and commit violent acts against private property and public goods. Respectable motions for interpretation! Slovenia is, for a reason, one of the most peaceful countries in the world - because the vast majority respect public order and peace. In the interpellation we heard that the protests were peaceful, protestors almost idealized as fighters for justice and freedom from the times of Chey Guevara, who is still very much loved by some. Unfortunately, however, the truth is that violent and well - organized groups of misdemeanors were responsible for the violence at the protests. Unfortunately, even with political support. That's why the police were forced to use gas, a police helicopter, and also a water cannon. Some 15 police officers and more facilities were injured in protests in the capital, according to police reports. Police detained 33 violators, most of whom have been dealt with in the past for various crimes and offences, including elements of violence. Thus, in the autumn protest wave, we witnessed, among other things, the composition of the northern Ljubljana bypass and the attack on the news team of the Council on Channel A and N1, which has never been mentioned by the motioner in the interpretation. We Christian Democrats are obliged to draw attention to the repeated deceiving and disputing of the applicants on the decision of the profession within the Police to for the first time activate police powers to prohibit movement in predetermined public places. The press has made it clear that in the past, when sufficient indications have been given of the high likelihood of serious breaches of public order, the same measures have already been introduced at the time of the visit of the head of the Holy Headquarters and the Bush-Putin meeting. In Novi Slovenija we support the possibility of peaceful protest and the right to express disagreement with every authority. However, when hundreds of people start throwing granite cubes, pyrotechnics, bottles, cans, umbrellas and other objects at police officers, it is a common crime and not a peaceful protest. Director of Police Administration Ljubljana mag. Stanislav Vrečar said, inter alia, that the types of injuries indicate that the attacks were intended for direct injury to police officers. Interpellators create an atmosphere that is supposed to indicate that the entire Ljubljana has resisted the dictatorial aspirations of the government and Interior Minister Aleš Hojs. The truth is far from that. Eminent Supreme Judge Barbara Zobsec, together with her husband Jan Zobec, said in a conversation for Radio Fireplace: “I am tired of riots, disruptive traffic on Fridays, now Wednesdays, Tuesdays, destruction of property, packaging of facades and protected buildings. I am sick of the widespread primitiveism associated with verbal and even physical violence and prostitution. This has been going on for, like, a year and a half, and we're fed up with this. For the other people of Ljubljana have their rights, namely, to walk peacefully in the city centre on Friday afternoon, the right to take us to the other side of town without looking for the roadways.» End of quote. From the opposition, it is apparent that Minister Hojs is obstructing the right of protestors to undeclared assembly. These undeclared meetings were sometimes violent. At the same time, some opposition politicians were involved in blocking the course of the declared March for Life. This is an event which has been declared in accordance with all the required rules. It must have taken a relatively long time to finally hold a meeting that was perfectly legally organized with a well - known organizer who had the courage to take on the responsibility for the march. This campaign was blocked by undeclared protests, which included opposition politicians. The campaign should have ended in the Prešeren market, but a group of protestors against life with an undeclared confrontation blocked the continuation of a pre-declared and organised campaign for life. So much more frightening that politicians took part in a confrontation with a large banner that we could read: “The rise of the patriarch does not break the weapon. Stone in your hand!" These are direct threats and incentives to stone. Where did we come from? These are supposed to be progressive progressive political forces. Today, the minister is also denied the interference of meetings by those who hinder the announced meetings, including by participating in threats of violence. Very fair, very fair. If some opposition politicians support the principle that more aggressive meetings prevail on the street, in New Slovenia we support an arrangement that respects public order and peace and protects meetings that are declared and comply with the rules. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the management of the decrees at the time of the covida-19 epidemic is difficult and we understand some concerns about it, but we put human life first. We agree with our President, Vice-President of the Government, Matthew Tonin, who said in a conversation for the daily newspaper: “Even if the Constitutional Court draws attention to a mistake, we can fix it later, and we can never wake the dead again.” Minister Aleš Hojs is also dealing with reports of police personnel and subjugation in the interpellation. Similar charges are faced by virtually all ministers in the government. The analysis of the situation gives an excellent description of the media editorial of the Homeland: »The opposition is sickly lacking power. In this light, he sees any government action that does not fully comply with their programme as a path to authoritarianism, irreparable staffing and the destruction of the independence of institutions. Where “independence” is mostly a translation for “under their control”. Today's interpretation is not about the fate of Alesh Hoys. Today's interpolation represents only an intermediate station to the final objective of decommissioning the state's security apparatus. There's an army following the police. Interpellation promotes the records of Althusser, Gramsci, Marx and all others who aim to capture all public institutions with their ideological ideas, which in the last instance also possess private property. This ideologie machine on the left, he's in charge of his education, and now he's taking advantage of the police. In his chest, however, he is pressured because Minister Tonin is modernising an army that is the foundation of a sovereign state. When you disintegrate the defence and security structures of the country, then anarchy begins. In New Slovenia, we will stand firm in the view that order and peace are fundamental to the defence of our sovereignty and the development of the potentials of our worthy and diligent fellow citizens. We only agree with the interpellation candidates on one point. Minister Aleš Hojs should express himself on social networks with a more appropriate expression, without using quantifications and vulgarism, as they do not affect anyone, let alone the functions of the Minister of Home Affairs. Let me finish. Interpellation, followed to a large extent by the ideological objectives of the second smallest political parties of the KUL coalition and blindly followed by the other parties, in the opinion of New Slovenia, has not submitted sufficiently substantial arguments, so today's interpretation will not be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you for your contribution. We're moving on. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u20	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! At the hearing of the first interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Interior in the SAB, we said that Minister Hojs is intelligent, undoubtedly rhetorically skilled and effective in pursuing the objectives set. Doesn't mean he's a good minister. At the hearing, we have detected trends in authoritarian, autonomous leadership and the desire to control, including those institutions that are independent under our constitution and laws. We have therefore in the SAB since the first day we learned the name of the candidate for the Interior Minister, we have warned that it is he and his work that could have greatly compromised this government. He introduced himself to us as a man who loves order. Soon we were able to figure out how the minister intended to achieve this order. Today we can say with certainty that we were not wrong in the SAB, because these trends and ways of thinking have been manifest in practice for a long time. A described, very authoritarian way of thinking and acting, the work of Minister Hojs has been overtaken since the beginning of his office, and in the beginning it has been particularly in the very warm staffing of the new, him and his current loyal personnel policy. We report to the Minister on the creation of state emergency situations. Day after day with sadness we find that democracy and the rule of law remain only dead letters on paper. The administration of decrees, police repression, the establishment of two categories of citizens, the beating and limitation of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the adoption of controversial laws have become a constant of our daily lives, and they bring confusion and chaos into our lives. People don't even know what rules or measures apply or what they don't. Decisions thus change from day to day. The government takes decisions at night sessions, not to mention the futility of certain measures to prevent the spread of covida-19 virus. Disappointment of people over the state of the country is therefore understandable and has moved to the street. Unfortunately, they've escalated violence and mishaps too many times. We have repeatedly stressed in the SAB that we strongly condemn any violence on both sides. Tuesday's October 5th protest, however, resulted in a very intense use of force by the police. In view of the situation, we were and are convinced in the SAB that the use of force was disproportionate and that the entire centre of Ljubljana was contaminated, which was felt not only by the protestors but also by the inhabitants and passersby there. The internal minister's call for greater police repression was more than obvious to fall to fertile ground. In the SAB, we are convinced that the safety of the protests could be taken care of without the use of a water cannon and an unlimited amount of tear gas. The incidents were caused by only some individuals, and the vast majority of people there were there to express disagreements with the ruling policy and its unreasonable measures, and this is also their constitutional right. On this day, for the first time in history, on the proposal of Minister Hojs, Article 9 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers was activated, according to which police in certain areas may restrict or prohibit movement. The decision on the activation of the said Article was published only one day earlier in the evening, in such a way that it was not even correctly formulated. However, a police order on the restriction of movement was not published in the Official Journal, which means that the public had no opportunity to familiarise itself with its contents. We direct responsibility for the conduct of the police in the protest to the Minister. For he publicly called the police to use greater physical aggression. Such communication is totally inappropriate for a minister. Let's also think about the cop-to-lean-and-twitter stuff about pearls and pigs. According to the SAB, the level of online communication of some Slovenian officials has already dropped too low. For a mature, democratic and legal state, such a way of communicating by a minister, to say the least, is unacceptable. Since the first day of this government's performance, we have witnessed human resources rosads, especially in key human resources positions in the Slovenian security and intelligence system. The Minister of the Interior shall place in these positions the obedient personnel who are loyally complying with his instructions. In particular, the National Investigation Office was struck, which gives the public the impression that the government, with the help of its people, wants to influence some more receptive predictive and criminal procedures. The fact that the Director of the NPU was unlawfully dismissed also confirmed the judgement of the Administrative Court, but Minister Hojs did not stop this because he simply came to the National Assembly with amendments to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police and achieved the adoption of a legal basis for his illegal activities. Minister, unfortunately you are responsible that we have reached a point where police officers are no longer decision makers, but have become only enforcers. Instead of serving the welfare of citizens and citizens, the term of the ruling policy has become extended. Therefore, in the SAB, it is not surprising that trust in the police is falling significantly. The perceptions from the interpolation refer to everyone's now well-known stupid tax affair. When recordings of the talks of the current Minister for Environment and Space and Bojan Petan were leaked to the public, Minister Hojs acknowledged that he had been briefed on the video. So he was aware that a crime of tax evasion was being prepared or had already been committed. As a result, there is a suspicion that the minister himself committed a crime by abandoning the complaint. An additional issue also raises open questions related to Croatia. In particular, Minister Hojs assured Croatian counterpart Bozanovic of Croatia's non-blocking in Schengen. Let us remember that the border is not defined, so that Croatia does not recognise the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. In view of everything that is said in the SAB Group, we believe that Aleš Hojs is not suitable for the role of minister, and that is why today we will once again support the interpretation of his work and responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Monica Gregorčič. It will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members and colleagues! Today's interpretation of the Minister of the Interior is already the tenth introductory part of the government. And it's a record number given the duration of this government mandate, in fact, for real inflation of interpolation. The so-called KUL coalition has not been successful in any of the cases. But they are also increasingly plagued by creativity in lowering their eyes and mistakes, which they think the minister should say good-bye. The main evidence against the work and responsibility of the internal minister relates to the excessive use of police force in undeclared protests, the creation of emergency situations and the restriction of human rights. Security is one of the fundamental and constitutionally guaranteed human rights. The right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies is also constitutionally protected, but by the admissibility of the legal restriction, provided that this is required by the security of the State or public safety and protection against the spread of communicable diseases. Thus, rights are linked to responsibility and duties and are limited to the rights of others. The main reason for today's interpolation is that on 5 October this year, Slovenia hosted the most important international event under the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It was the EU-Western Balkans summit, where the leaders of the European Union and the countries of the Western Balkans region gathered. The day, described as a black day for Ljubljana, was Tuesday and specifically chosen by well-known organisers outside of the protest practice so far, only to damage the reputation of the state, to cause as many riots and widespread chaos as possible. Regrettably, the interpellationers blinded by the political struggle, not until now, have not been able to make objective and critical assessments of this event and to condemn the deliberate threat to safety and public health, to cause total traffic blockade and material damage by demonstrators. Moreover, the applicants continue to disseminate misleading information and to put on the side of rioters and hooligan gangs. For they were by no means peaceful demonstrators; their sole purpose was to create complete chaos and anarchy. By doing so, KUL coalition actors take on their share of responsibility for escalating the unrest that they may have wished quietly, indirectly, perhaps even secretly, in order to be able to accuse the government or the minister for their causes and alleged inappropriate reactions. The political struggle, therefore, in which all resources are allowed to be destroyed by the government, even for public health, security and the reputation of the country. Surely, however, most of their voters do not feel that way, and they will be billed in elections. As it is said, Tuesday was not about peaceful protests. It was an unannounced meeting, otherwise a well-known organizer, who was therefore so much more unpredictable and security risk. On the basis of the information gathered, including calls via social networks, the police estimated that this was a very high risk event. In our party we have always supported the peaceful public expression of opinions, which is one of the indicators of freedom of speech and democracy in general, but that Tuesday went the other way, to demolish democracy by violent demonstrators. Remember, the borders of a variable political struggle have been increasingly moving to the streets since this government's appearance. Observable opposition politicians also took part in the protests shamelessly. In this way, verbal attacks and threats to public officials were also openly or reluctantly legitimized, and in the end, the use of physical force, such as the throwing of granite cubes and other dangerous objects, the destruction of public property, roadblocks, the prevention of intervention vehicles, as well as the threat to the safety of other non-violent protesters, random passersby and police officers. Such ingenuity and irresponsibility of the so-called KUL policy can only be strongly condemned. On that day, on 5 October this year, the police were forced to take certain security decisions on the conduct of protests in the light of the circumstances, past experience and all the information obtained. One such decision was the activation of police power to prohibit movement in public places, which is based on Article 9 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. At this point, we would like to express our thanks to the police who have provided security and public order and peace in all the protests so far. In particular, we stress that the appropriateness and professionality of police action at the 5 October protest also confirmed the findings of the post-established expert commission. It follows that this interpretation statement is against the Minister without a basis, since, on the contrary, it could only be the reason for his interpretation if, as Minister of the Interior, he failed to ensure public security. All further findings by the interpellation's proponents, such as the politicisation and militarisation of the police, illegal employment in the police, demeaning, ignorant and unprofessional relations, are also baseless political factions. They are based on a subjective assessment of circumstances which are not per year for the applicants of this interpretation. All these circumstances were explained by the Minister, and he rejected the evidence in his reply to the interpretation and in today's opening address. Therefore, we will not support the interpretation of the work and responsibilities of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia we have an emergency situation in two areas, health and political. The beginning of both of them is ironically coincidental. In Slovenia, an epidemic was declared due to the covida virus-19 only the day before the new government. The information on the new virus has been circulating a few weeks earlier, but the Prime Minister of that time has not prepared us more specifically for the imminent danger. That moment was the beginning of an emergency health situation. By taking over the leadership of the new government, we have also entered into a political emergency. In the Republic market, the first protestors gathered before the new government was formed, when the possibility of formation had just been announced. Then these protests became a constant, turned into cycling protests, and ended up every Friday. Even today, there were no known organisers for these undeclared protests, despite the fact that famous people were invited to participate on social networks. But when it was necessary to take responsibility, there was no organizer. The first such unorganized protests, which turned into violence, were already on 5 November 2020. During the protest there were also injuries between participants and police officers, and a media representative, a photographer, was injured. We have all condemned obscene behaviour, and for a few days thereafter, more visible politicians have once again called for protests. In the Desus Group, we accept that protests are legitimate rights in every democratic regime, but we cannot accept the violent conduct and destruction of foreign property. A similar story was repeated on 5 October 2021 when Article 9 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers was activated. Because of the EU's international meeting, many wanted to use this day to promote themselves through protests against PCT measures. Of course, these protests also turned violent, and the police were forced to use stronger grips to ensure security, including tear gas and water cannons. The measures were considered excessive and, on the other hand, we witnessed the destruction and threat of the safety of all road users by irresponsible human behaviour on the Ljubljana bypass. In the Desus Group, we believe that interpolation in the work that talks about these events is excessively relativizing the situation. He wants to present only one layer of story and the responsibility of the minister. We agree that Minister Hojs is responsible for the events that followed the protests and is also responsible for ensuring security and peace. And the police, as a repressive apparatus, must have the power to do or ensure this. We cannot only have police who control traffic and write offences, but we need one that ensures all citizens a sense of security. Such police are not militant, they are merely doing their job. However, it is necessary to condemn all your ministers who assess the negative work of police officers. The labelling of such words with mussels and other expressions is extremely inappropriate and unworthy. The Minister should express his criticism culturally, regardless of the situation. Now he has a good opportunity to explain his words and apologize to the police and the police. Human resources developments within the police will also need to be taken into account. Political appointments are a permanent escort to all changes in the country's leaders, but it is not acceptable to undermine the reputation and credibility of an important body such as the Police for the sake of seeking their own interests. However, if new appointments have occurred to violate existing legislation, our duty is clear - we must scrupulously resist such acts and call on the competent institutions to do their job. However, as the last observation in the interpretation is, of course, an awareness of the recordings of the conversation between Minister Visiak and Mr Petan. On Friday, however, we expect Minister Hojs to present the background of this tweet in concrete terms. If this video was previously truly made known, the Slovenian public should be informed of the existence of such a video for reasons of state-of-the-art. It is certainly not permissible for a person in such a high position to ignore the potential violation of the applicable legislation. For the truth has come to pass before. Dear Minister, we do have one question for you, which some citizens have addressed to me. This is about the entry of Croatia into the Schengen area. Both are known to have decided between Slovenia and Croatia by the arbitral tribunal. Slovenia respects the ruling on the border and Croatia does not. Days ago, we were informed through the media that the competent Commission of the European Union had found that Croatia was technically ready to enter the Schengen area. When Croatia can actually enter the Schengen system and it will instead protect the external borders of the European Union, it is not yet known. It must be supported by all members of the European Union. I ask you how Slovenia will decide to support or support Croatia in the Schengen area. Has the government made any decisions about this and the public doesn't know it? Why do I ask that? On Croatia NovaTV, Croatian Interior Minister Bozinović claimed that Slovenia will not block Croatia when entering the Schengen and that you claimed it. Does that hold? If this decision was taken by the Government, why was the public not aware of it? I'm asking you for an answer. Finally, we must say that in our Group of Members we will listen to today's debate in depth. The Prime Minister's eyes are sharp, and we can't take them with a spare. In the Desus Group, we will closely monitor all the responses of Minister Hojs. On the basis of a thorough reflection following the debate, we will take our final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Janja Slug. It will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u26	Today, this assembly will once again discuss the work of one of the ministers of this government. This is the second time we've talked about the Minister of the Interior. And once again, the result of the vote is known before this meeting begins. Why is that, we all know, even the public. Minister Hojs illustrates the work of the third government of Janez Janša by his own communication, conduct and action. With my low and insulting rhetoric towards those who disagree with him, to this assembly, even to the employees of my own ministry – especially police and police officers – we see how deeply the political culture in Slovenia has fallen in this bad year and a half. And every time a person thinks he's deeper into the manure of this rhetoric, unfortunately, it's impossible to sink, he surprises us with a new fall. How important it is for the Minister to act in accordance with his oath a year and a half ago to speak for this speaker, I will not even lose words. This is the man who, at the time of the most severe lockdown at the time of the epidemic, tried to cross the state border against the rules adopted by the government, which he is a member. The excuses that he used to fabricate in public for this attempt to break the laws of others at the time, but most people were just amazed. In some other, normal times, you could take them as very unsettling jokes. This is a man who likens citizens and citizens to pigs while praising Slovenian neo-Nazis. This is a minister who, with his client associates, appears in the police operational headquarters every time something that he does not like happens in Slovenia, legislation up or down. This is the Minister of Government in which his colleague gives ultra-descendant associations the status of functioning of society in the public interest and his client mentions in his programme the possibility of civil war. This is the Prime Minister whose president and he himself never forgets to attack the judiciary every time he makes a decision that he personally does not like, or when the media at any time write something critical about their work. And this is the minister, who is a non-chalant and sloppily commenting on the work of the media, of course, those who are not his clientele. Mr Hojs is therefore a minister who, together with Minister Dikaucic, and, yes, together with the President of the Government, best symbolizes the fact that fundamental change is necessary in Slovenia, even more so, normalisation is necessary. People have enough of the constant state of emergency created by this government, and at the very least I think of the fight against an epidemic in which, like most other areas, they have, of course, completely ignored the profession and tried to use it for disciplining people and for excessive interference with human rights, while people in Slovenia have died and are still dying because of covido. Mr. Hoys will remain Minister today. Unfortunately, this is a fact that some Members will move and speak to that button marked with the cross. But remember, all that is not support for interpretation is support for this minister and this government. That's a fact, too. Hoys will stay, but it's important that we use this time today to talk about his work. People need to be reminded of what they're experiencing all the time. You need to prevent thinking that as long as it's happening to others, I don't care. Still, they experience threats, resentment, pressures, tear gas, and water cannons of fear. And people need to be reminded over and over again that the situation that this government creates in Slovenia is not normal. I'm sure as of April 24, it will be different, normal. Above all, the principle of the most important repressive ministry in our country will not be a man who is opposed to pigs.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! What's the oldest left-wing trick? To provoke something for themselves and to do something for themselves and point to each other with their finger and shout: “Take the thief!” How did we come to this point where we are today when this is being addressed? It is always necessary to refresh the memory, because we know that left-wing people have problems in years and 70 are on some ground. Let's remind them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we are. You've been smoking so-called protestors for months, you've been participating in protests yourself, you've been breaking the rules long and hard, and then when the violence occurred, you've been trying to distance yourself from it. It's pretty unconvincing, because this is a poster that says, "The stones in your hands." Stones in your hands, ladies and gentlemen. Is that non-violence? And that was followed by Mrs Sukič and gentlemen from SD could show you anyone else. And everything was happening under very well-known signs, very well-known faces, and even with the help of foreign aiders you called for help. That's enough to refresh your memory. You know, all of this interpretation today is a little bit like that story that circulates from ancient Rome, when Nero burned Rome and then sang the mourners: “Yemen, Rome is on fire!” That's about how it is today with this interpolation. 39 smokers of the so-called KUL set protestors on fire for so long that violence occurred. And after the police have responded appropriately – highly professional, very effective, all recognition goes well – now you are giving the interpretation and howling hands: “Oh, there has been violence, terrible!” Yes, of course, which you provoked. You are responsible for this situation, and no one else and your media and all those who have been involved in this mess. The result is that in Slovenia, much more than elsewhere, resistance to vaccination has developed and therefore we have relatively greater problems than many other countries. This is all your fault, including human life, human destiny. And you're going to intercede against the minister. 39 small neurons, who are hanging their hands here today and moving around, "her, there's been violence! Rome is on fire! Ljubljana burns!" should take responsibility for what you have done. Responsibility for all that has happened, for all those who have been directly involved, for all violations, for all those that have been associated with machine damage from those you have forgotten over and over again, from mothers who have not been able to reach their children, to those who wanted to work or from work, but who have not been able to go to the people who wanted to visit their families, but to all those who have just been affected by this storm that you injected. What exactly is your argument? Responsibilities for the activation of the article, by means of coercive means. Ladies and gentlemen, the protests that you yourself have attended – I will show you again Mrs Fajon and some Members – and you have encouraged and provoked through them that there has been a mass violence of protestors, which, of course, required a proper police response, and of course, when some of them imagined that they were their streets and even cried out, one SD member also put it on Twitter, I can show it to you, then the police had to act. But action — what is essential to interpolation — is in line with the law. What would be the argument for interpolation? If the police were to act outside the law or against the law, of course this would be another story. But what does the law say, ladies and gentlemen? The one you forgot about in this text, which is a terrible debt completely empty. The law, however, says: The moment the traffic jams occur, if the protest is not declared and properly organised in advance, it dissolves. Not “may dissolve”, that's the point of the law. It could mean that they decide for themselves, but “dissolve”. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the right imperative, it must be dissolved. That's what they say. The police had to act by law. We could talk more about whether it's time, whether it's too little, we should talk about it more decisively. But what you're making as the starting point of your interpretation is top-of-the-line nonsense because it's clearly in conflict with the letter of the law. Police had to act because there was an undeclared protest against traffic. It says it explicitly in the marriage, you can go and check it out yourself. For you have forgotten that we are all bound by law, that you are not above the law, nor are protestors above the law. And that the police have a duty to ensure respect for the law. And that's the essence of the law in this interpretation. This is already the reason why, of course, this interpretation has to be rejected entirely for legal reasons. And I would add it for ecological reasons. Isn't it a waste of paper that says this nonsense? We would leave the tree to grow and save our time and money today in Slovenia so that we can do something for our development. Well, then go ahead. Illegal politicization, and what else does it say? [[…]] Militarization of the police. Now I'd like to ask for a little more serious. We have listened to approximately such indications at the last two meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy, which I am leading. What did this have to do with anything? Yeah, how is it possible that this went into the law that introduced the term for chiefs of police? Ladies and gentlemen, even from the examples I myself know after telling those who are directly involved, I know how to connect if someone is long in a leading role in an environment, for too long, for decades, then there are connections. That's human, but it's not good for the police. And then there's that double behavior that maybe someone feels right -- yeah, you know, it's overlooked, but it's not transparent, and then maybe it's used for any other benefits. This is, of course, systemic corruption, ladies and gentlemen, and it is unacceptable for any police to do so. There have been cases like this, if we deny them a thousand times. This is said, it is essential that things change, that they are bound to the mandate and that the effectiveness of the work of those who are in the leading cities be re-evaluated over and over again, that with appropriate relocations, that it is not one step and life in some environment, also ensure that these links do not change into what would then impede the implementation of the law or even be against the law alone. And that, ladies and gentlemen, you will not believe, was proposed by the police union in 2019. But when the current government and the current coalition propose this, the current minister proposes it and when it begins to implement it, it is a terrible politicisation of the police. Who's moving around here? All that matters is that you're not the one who makes the decisions. That's the only problem. And that's why this interpolation is ahead of us today. Because you feel like you're being pushed away. But it's not our fault if you threw a rifle into the corn. This government was created only because Marjan Sarec, as Prime Minister of the Government, threw a rifle into the corn and left. Before that, he was abandoned by the Left, which was the key in the government of Marjana Šarca. She could've created it, led it, coordinated it all. And when she left, of course, everything was quick to question. That is why, of course, when the responsibility of the government of Marjan Šarc comes into play, and we all know that this responsibility is, Leftica is terribly moved when she has a critical opinion. Because she was the one who caused the formation of the government of Marjan Sarca. She'd never be here if it wasn't for that. When it comes to running the Police, we can all say that the police have seen changes in the past period, which have made much more professional, much more effective and even much more modern police than they used to be. Part of this, it is worth stressing, was created already before the previous government under Minister Györkösevo, who made the first amendment to these changes in the second part of her mandate, which I welcome, because we need a modern police force. But it is totally insane that today's opposition, the so-called KUL, still uses double criteria when it comes to mediating against those whom they loudly or quietly support, is what we then listen to, fascism, and I don't know what other insults to the police account, while they themselves would chase down some phantoms that no one sees or, of course, are not really there. And then there's the second part of this conjecture when there's always talk about why it's no longer being processed and why it's not an independent court and so on. I did. But, ladies and gentlemen, who is the one who handled this properly? It certainly wasn't the so-called special part of the police, but it was the criminal police. This has been successful, while those you have been defending or defending in the past have apparently been set up more to, let's face it, cover up major crime rather than detect major crime. And it is right that the police are united again today and that it is hierarchically arranged, and let us hope that it will be even more successful in detecting crime than it was. But as for prosecutors who should direct the work of the police, we have talked a lot about this here. There's been a lot of awkwardness and a lot of scheming. At the time when it was necessary, they were nowhere to be found, but when no one needed them, they got involved in the work, in such a way that the police could not complete the proceedings, which is very interesting - who did the prosecution defend? Let's ask ourselves. And when this comes to court, what happens? I'd like to remind you a little bit about what these independent courts are like. That due to procedural errors, the biggest criminals, including drug dealers, are forgiven. That, let's say, someone who was wanted by the United States of America with a warrant, that was in the previous term, and was captured by our officers in Cyprus, by the court, then released, and watch out for that, by reason of his absence, and before the Americans came after him, of course, lost every trace of him. Did you know that story? Not to mention how then a judge, such as Shubic in Kranj, writes a judgment in the case of Elan, so long that everything is absolutely outdated that we get from Celje that legendary judgment, legendary in narrations, but ahead of us is 26th, a day of autonomy and unity, and the holiday that many forget is important, how important and symbolic, and that judgment was announced when the JLA officers were released for crimes that were even recorded with cameras and proved irrefutable that JLA by October 1991, I quote from the memory: “not Slovenia was an enemy army”. If such courts are judged, people of God, then don't be surprised that what the police do doesn't get a proper sequel. Not to mention all the other stories we've met before, and we're definitely going to be doing it today. From smuggling, where one of the members of one of the opposition parties was also involved, and then we have a case where illegal migrants have fallen massively to the Slovenian borders, some of the members of the so-called KUL coalition have gone to interfere. In fact, the obstacle went to our officers so they couldn't do their job properly. So, literally, they're in the fifth column, and then, of course, they're saying that the police aren't doing what they should be doing. This is not going anywhere, ladies and gentlemen. No one is above the law and the law must apply to all in the same way. We heard again, even a little earlier, about all the possible fascists, and I don't know any more nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, the only coalition of hatred that I know in this love of Slovenia is KUL, because it is a coalition that stems from the hatred of Janez Janša, to the SDS, to the existing government. It's a hate coalition. And it's sad that this happened. That's bad, too. Hate never gives birth to anything good. Look, there are tasks ahead of us when it is necessary to bring this to an end. And for this reason, of course, we not only give the Minister all our support, but we also assure him that we will do everything in advance so that these policies, which we are implementing in the area of internal affairs, will be implemented. And I'd like to make it happen more and more quickly. But what do we get from the other side? We're only getting what we call a burner, kale. I would like to recall what it was like to make a proposal to activate an article to protect the Slovenian border. When they are foreign police, it is less controversial, of course, because such a decision can pass through the Slovenian Parliament, but when it was necessary to activate the Slovenian Army in that part to only acquire police powers, in order to help the police to relieve them in order to realize the Slovenian military's mission, this is the protection of the Slovenian border and you were against it. And a sufficient majority could not be achieved. Security is one and indivisible. And Slovenia is the safest country in the world under certain criteria and in Europe for sure. In this way a special survey was carried out and you could also monitor the scale in the media, even on the Internet was published in the past days. This is one quality that we are not aware of very much. I've been warning her for many years. Slovenia is extremely safe. This is something that our people often do not realize how different it is in any other country, even a much more developed country, from Belgium forward, if you like, or the United States. You can go to Slovenia at night wherever you want, nothing will happen to you. It's extremely unlikely that anything would be wrong. And that's something to keep. And this is something that the current government has managed not only to preserve but also to strengthen. And we need to keep working on that. Slovenians and Slovenians are unaware, except for those who try it themselves with some longer stay abroad, what the real world means outside Slovenian borders. You look at one in the street at night and jump out. This is, for example, in the United States: “You're staring at me!” That's the problem. These things don't usually happen in Slovenia. And that's why the promotion of any kind of violence, just as you've been doing for the last two years, for political reasons, you wanted to take advantage of these people, who you've only encouraged to help throw away the government, and then you'd come along and solve the problem that you've really set on fire yourself, twice. The first time you threw a rifle into the corn, the second time you encouraged violent riots. What a hoax that is! What a hoax. It is now about the fact that things have become much calmer in Slovenia at the moment. And from this point of view, this interpolation is all the more what's actually going to be in your eyes. And we just want Slovenia to remain that way so that Slovenia remains safe, that people can work peacefully so that we can do all our work properly. And I say that we should all do everything in our power to go this way. But here we would also need many times the correctness and, of course, the consensus that many countries have when it comes to key issues for the public as well as the final issues of foreign policy and so on, in short, those strategic issues that concern everything and everyone. And to be aware that people have the right to live safely, to have the right to health, to have the right to peace, to have the right to be equal before the law. I would also like to remind you of your discussions, even here today, when one applies to the other, the other. That's unacceptable. By the Constitution, we're all the same before the law. And the fundamental human rights acts are also based on this principle. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, this interpretation must be strongly rejected. It must be rejected in full. It has to be rejected as inappropriate, as it is unwarranted in works, when you report to the minister that the police have been fulfilling the law in truth, which you have obviously not read well. She's also absurd. It's a waste of time and paper for such interpretation. It must be rejected in order to keep Slovenia safe. It must be rejected so that we can all live again normally, even as a signal that no one has the right to promote unrest, that no one has the right to be over the law. And that is why I can end with the desire to keep Slovenia safe. I can wish Slovenkam and Slovenes, all the inhabitants of Slovenia, to enjoy this winter. Winter is the best time. It's the only time in the year you see a left-handed man holding his hand in his own pocket. And I wish you a happy ending. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u29	No insults, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u30	If anyone has identified themselves, I respect your opinion. So I'm just gonna take this chance for the end, because now Christmas is on the run. Christmas I always write with a big word, and therefore I wish you a happy and peaceful Christmas. I also wish you a wake-up celebration of the day of independence and unity and happiness, health, success and joy in the new year 2022. Happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u31	Nik Prebil will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u32	Your Honor, the President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members, Minister Aleš Hoys! As a candidate for the Minister of the Interior at that time, I quote: "I will purify the organigram and the police structure, and I will also demand order at the Ministry and that the hierarchy is respected and that orders are followed. I will demand that the charges be filed immediately and I will demand that the prosecution commence before jurisdiction is determined." With these statements, you already pointed out the direction of the Ministry of the Interior at the time of your ministry and you meant death seriously, and not only did you mean death seriously, but you do. We expect voters and voters to follow both moral and ethical principles rather than just legal. With you and this government, there's neither one nor the other. Human resources exchanges must also not be a lever to deal with political opponents but must be based on professional arguments. However, according to a number of human resources exchanges, it is clear that this is not the case. All the key positions in the Slovenian police are held by the ruling SDS parties, personnel who are obedient, receptive and set to travel to you. And your orders to them directly, to whom all must be punished. And before I continue to explain the interpretations based on the actions that this minister has done, let me take a few more facts from these two years of Minister Hojs's tour of the interior ministry. Recall how some of your members slid in the words: “Think about your future.” And for the first hour of the government's operation, it was followed by the discharge of the then general director of Bobnar's police. Of course, there was no room for someone professional to stick his nose in your business. And, of course, the Director of the Department of Criminal Police, responsible for investigating the illegal financing of SDS, flew away as soon as possible. As soon as he said no to your greed, and as soon as he didn't deliver what was not lawfully yours. The NPU raid was next. Unlawful discharge of the Director and non-compliance with the judgment of the Court, which continues today. In addition to many other undesirables, you have, of course, found in the police a special way of withdrawing contentious criminals and leading investigations that could endanger the interests of the SDS by moving them into newly established working groups. In particular, I would like to highlight the Working Group on Illegal Migration set up in October 2020. Its composition, of course, attaches to the perceptions that the members of the police were primarily those who needed to be withdrawn, and not those who would be the most capable staff for this field of work. Among them, there is not a single expert in the field of State border protection. There are, however, many other experts who cannot do their work and who are paid by citizens and citizens because you, Minister, have made this decision. And besides Tatjana Bobnar and Boštjana Lindava, there are others in this group, David Antolovič, former assistant director of the NPU, Marko Košir and Tina Pahor, both NPU criminals who investigated, among other things, the alleged crimes of the advisor to the Government of National Security, Mr. Jana Mahnič, and Minister of Defence, Matthew Tonin. He is also a member of Vesna Drole, former head of the Public Relations Service at the General Police Administration. And you solved all of those and moved them quickly, of course because they didn't want to get rid of the political pressures. They went to Tacen, which became some kind of political dump for former bosses. They went where, unfortunately, you can't forgive them. However, it is clear to everyone that they are only in this group because they are withdrawn, that they do not have access to any information, and therefore, of course, they cannot do what you sent them to do. For a moment, I would like to return to the hearing of the investigative commission on political responsibility for political interference with the work of the police, where, at the hearing, Mrs Drole said that she was sad to see that the police had lost part of their reputation, which had been difficult to earn over the years. She pointed out that, according to her assessment, this result of inappropriate communication, which has changed on the basis of the decisions and direction of the police leadership itself, is significantly more authoritarian. And someone who at first praised her, if she was the best expert in her field, withdrew her immediately after the performance of her post. Why? Because he who withdraws does not think with his head and has received such instruction and obeys instructions. And the story here isn't over. When the leaders at the Police Summit found that the new game with the working groups was interesting, under the cover of the backlog resolution later Director General Anton Olaj set up another group in which investigators from the NPU, who, of course, were disturbed by the authorities, were again found. And if they were previously investigating the most serious forms of crime at the NPU, they are now solving the backlogs of the Ljubljana Police Administration. On 20 October, a new law on police organisation and work was adopted. In LMŠ, we strongly opposed this because the law does allow for so-called human resources cleaning or opens the door wide to policy intervention in the very structure of the police. As a result of the adoption of this law, 130 police leaders, the directors of all eight police administrations and 110 police station commanders who have become duty holders and no longer have a full mandate. Police work is becoming unmotivated, as employees do not know what they will be able to do in the future. A lot of people are ashamed to work for the police you run, the minister, and a lot of people have already left alone, and a lot of people are quiet because they're scared. And this law, of course, follows the smell of unconstitutionality, of illegality, which I think we will see in a short time. Minister, you, along with these subjects, are embodying politicization, because you are a clientalist and non-repressive choice of individuals for leadership jobs within the police, individuals without the necessary experience, without the necessary knowledge. And this law is actually Pandora's box of incompetence and client involvement with the police. And with that, let's move on to the second and third points of your interpretation. Limitation of human rights. We both know and all here that this is possible with the Constitution, of course, but there has to be a strong basis for this, a basis that is judged by the proportionality test. I am of the opinion that, with the incorrect implementation of Article 9 of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, which was activated for the first time in the history of Slovenia, you have restricted these rights without a basis, i.e. illegal. The peaceful protests turned into violent incidents, and the police repeatedly used coercive means at various locations. Of course, it is clear that when accidents occur, people and property must be protected. But there is no way to get rid of the impression that you either had information and did not act in a timely manner, or you needlessly encouraged the spread of violent protests. And we believe that you bear not only objective responsibility for excessive police action at protests in Ljubljana, but that you have subjectively influenced such police tactics. In view of the testimony of the witnesses on the investigative commission, we are also convinced that the police have responded on the basis of demands for a more demanding enforcement of laws, including the use of coercive means that have already come from the state summit prior to this event, in particular from you, the respected minister. After all, you were yourself at the heart of the OKC and, of course, no one believes you when you say that you were just observing there, because this is not your way of working. However, the use of excessive police resources has also been identified by the Commission to verify the circumstances of the use of these coercive measures. And the report concludes that some irregularities have also been identified, which were almost silenced to the public. And it says: “On a large number of personal cameras obtained by members of a special police unit, only the use of coercive means is visible, but there is no record of a violation, which in certain cases may raise doubts as to whether there has been a mass breach at all.” It's about the footage that was taken this afternoon. Furthermore, the Commission is of the opinion that there were no reasons on the Celov Road for the event for the crowds from a specialised water cannon vehicle not to draw attention to the possible forced use of resources. Of course it wasn't done. As a non-professional, the Commission also assessed the event when members of the Ljubljana Police Unit headed from Chopo Street towards Prešeren's market fired gas charges, of course wrong, with a longer range, whether planned or not, was merely speculation that fell on the market, where there was no one who violated public order and peace, since the market was almost empty and the gas was only spreading against other members of the Murska Sobota Police Station and against the survivors. So a bunch of irregularities that accompany them, Minister, your ignorance and direct interference with the work of the police. Of course, we're already used to it that she didn't apologize to you, and that wasn't enough for you. But as you yourself have stated, the police are for you anyway only snotty and lazy. You are also, Minister Hojs, as part of the government, responsible for confirming unconstitutional and illegal decisions, and some of them have come from your ministry. The unconstitutional limitation of public meetings, the unconstitutional prohibition of the gathering of people, the unconstitutional and realistic restriction of people to the municipalities, so as not to say a stupid measure. And all of this has been decided by the Constitutional Court, the highest court in our country, assessing compliance with the Constitution, the Constitution, which is the highest and most important act in the country. So the court you're publicly humiliating. And so the government continues to rule by means of sub-legal acts, past the adoption of democratic decisions in the National Assembly. The government continues to take too many powers as executive authorities and to take decisions by the National Assembly, which was elected by the people. Not to mention catastrophic and completely inappropriate communication emanating from the government. And then, of course, a great surprise why people don't respect you. Yes, good morning! Last but not least, as Minister, you have also acted in violation of criminal law, since you have covered up the fact that you know about Minister Viszak's recordings, where he is referring the Slovenian tycoon to tax evasion. And not only does this government overpower a minister who encourages the non-taxation of taxes, it beats even a minister who is under judicial investigation because of the suspicion of tax evasion and document fraud. Well, God knows where you ministers are still active in your spare time. All your actions and observations related to this point point not only to the legitimacy of this interpretation, which is already a second in line, by the way, but also to its urgency and necessity, the necessity after the end of your term of office. Everything you've seen here is proven or proved to be real. The fact is that Slovenia does not have a Minister of the Interior, Slovenia has a Minister of Police, who puts police officers in a position where they are only executives. As a result, the reputation of the police is at the bottom. Minister, we have never had such a lack of confidence in the police in Slovenia. It is true, however, that trust in the police always falls under the government of Janez Janša and that accidents occur only with the government of Janez Janša. Under the line in LMŠ, we can easily estimate that your work is completely inadequate. Police politicisation at full speed and systematic police clearance is almost over. Even if you've managed to cut through a lot of them, we won't allow you to change the Republic. After the elections, of course, in order to ensure normality, it will be necessary to replace all these disputed personnel and depoliticize the police and also to return the Law on Organising and Working in the Police to the interests of autonomy, professionalism and professionalism of the Slovenian police. In the LMŠ, however, we hope that today's interpretation will explain the already known facts of your political responsibility to encourage someone central or perhaps someone who is in opposition, and this is not to think about it and deny you support. But we're not blind at all. Greed and control of everything and everyone was clearly led by the governments in which you, Minister, sit. To conclude, allow me a meaningful thought. Mahatma Gandhi, a prominent Indian politician and activist, father of a so-called non-violent protest in symbol of the will of the people, once said: “The world is big enough to meet the needs of any person but too small to satisfy human greed.” The entire LMŠ Group will also undermine your resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. First, the proposaler Matjaž German has the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, welcome back to the National Assembly, welcome back to the Members. As one year ago, we can find out that the Republic of Slovenia is even more and more in the middle, I will say, a storm so legal, constitutional, if you want, a moral or a value crisis, which, without reservation, I will say, a respected minister, you will embody with your actions, with your debates, with your bodies, with your accusations, whether it's police, whether it's the work of prosecutors, or the work of judges, or opposition, or anyone else who does not understand the SDS policy, the tailoring of the repressive authorities, starting with the President of the Government on the forehead, follow him, the Secretary of State of Gorenak, the other Secretary of State for National Security to Mr. Mahnič, Mr. Predaliève, Mr. Kangler, Olaj, in front of him, Jurich, Urbasu, Grah Lazar, and, of course Mr Grims, with all the Secretary of State for National Security of the National Security of Slovenia, you can clearly, as well as the Committee and as well as the President. Here is the undeniable fact that from here probably comes your vehementness, self-confidence, self-esteem, if you want to be able to take our society to tomorrow, for which we have not fought, not you, not Mr. Pučnik, not Mr. Janša, not in the first or second term, not all of us in the democratic opposition as all of us have ever, and we never thought that we would receive all of this mainly the act and manner of rhetoric and approach that you have to citizens and citizens not only you, but also all of yours over- and subordinates. We are in the midst of a moral crisis, a respected minister, and in the midst of this cyclone, you are too. In fact, where I have not yet seen a slightly lower evaluation of your colleagues, when we are also talking about formal internal security procedures, which, with respect to the public, were touched by the Director General of the Police of Mr Olai in 2010, so they touched on Mr Travner because of the so-called journals of the past, Mr Jurič for the assistance of a fellow worker in the service due to the case of Radar, Mr Urbas, for example, for mobile and sexual harassment, and what he had echoed 14 days ago, a member of Mr Urbas, whom I will touch a little later, Mr Bajrami, who was also an official translator in one of Janša's governments when they travelled to the foreign areas that were reinstated. Why am I mentioning this? Because it is not only an SDS political assembly at the head of the police, but it is also the first operatives who have been in one way or another before internal security procedures, which has not yet happened in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems practical to choose the entire flower of individuals who will be humbled by the turbulent past who are looking for a new and different future, such as Dr. Olai himself, the general director of the police, who was your direct secretary of state and then became the director of the Police. And in all of this, you dragged him out of retirement. Dear Minister! What's happening simply means that we need to find out that you simply kidnapped Slovenia. With the continuation of the reign of freeways and instigators of non-tax payers, as we have witnessed at the last interpretation of Mr Visiank, when we also interpreted him due to events 14 years ago, you have made a nostalant statement that you know all these recordings and that this is no surprise to you, which puts you in a position, for the first time, I will say, a moral highway, a second time as someone who throws bombs just to protect their client colleagues from the responsibility that they should have in every normal democratic country of Western provenance, at least when we are talking about the European Union, at least in some way to move away from public functions and as a rotten part of a society to be able to prosper the entire other part. Dear colleagues from New Slovenia! How many tears will it take in the middle of Ljubljana before you learn from New Slovenia what is actually happening around you? Not enough has been said about why you're doing what you're doing. Or maybe you're based on interview 5. 12. With Mr. Janša in Democracy, is someone squeezing where someone else has already spoken? The situation of New Slovenia is unenviable, but it is still difficult to investigate why you are forced to do everything you can to keep this government alive in the circumstances. How much debt will Desus eventually have to sell the assets of a demographic fund that is not yet in existence? How many civil rights, pensions and fair judgments will you sell for a month or two or three of your salary, respected colleagues from Desus? How many repeals of decisions that have an unconstitutional impact on fundamental human rights will you allow before you realize that the Constitutional Court is not your enemy, but the last defender of freedom and democracy of society? The distinguished representative of the Hungarian and Italian national communities, who are constantly voting against democracy in our country as a representative of the national community, has not yet done before you in such a difficult situation because of your votes, to put in the majority of the Slovenian population. How many repealed decisions that have an unconstitutional impact on fundamental constitutional rights will you allow before you realize that the Constitutional Court is the one that actually defends constitutionality and legislation as the last institution in the Republic of Slovenia before the autocracy and those who want to subject themselves to virtually all state subsystems? What more do you want to hear from us today that you will understand that you are part of an organized attack on human rights, the future of children and democracy in this country, respected former members of the SMC – the party that came under all of what we are fighting in the democratic opposition and outside as a civil initiative? Government with decrees, repression, personnel that actually affects from the very top to all the police pores, which, by doing so from month to month, reduces credibility between people and respect among people, as much as hurts police and police officers in this last two-year period. Dear Minister, you have allowed yourself so far that you have threatened both the presidents of the unions with a warning before the resignation, even though the Minister-designate, the third paragraph of Article 89 of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, makes this possible. That's exactly what your government adopted in 2007, if I'm not mistaken. “For the duration of the professional function”, I quote, “the law in the representative union does not have the rights and duties arising from the status of a police officer. At this time, he receives 100 % of the remuneration. The basis for calculating the remuneration shall be its basic salary, which shall be received prior to the police exercise of the union function, and a work-time allowance.’ That's what the law says. And in the public sector, this also allows the 45th Article of the collective agreement on non-economic activities, which states, to quote Article 45: “For the duration of the professional function, the salary of the union trustee shall be the amount received before the exercise of this function”. So the salary of the union trustee is valorized by the growth of wages in the institution and you, through your dialogue, have already established practices and stable relationships between the employer and the employee, break with your vehementity. Dearly beloved, you have allowed yourself, at the time of the greatest repression in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, to talk about the period of all these 11 and more protests, which have also been marked by violence, to allow representatives, not police, but politicians, to visit once the shrines especially those who have been professionally influenced by knowledge and influence to solve mass conflicts or conflicts of the masses in a non-repressive way. On 5 October, as has been said many times, our disclosure has resulted in political participants both in headquarters and in the Centre for Protection and Protection. This suggests that police officers were particularly motivated to use all the repressive means available at the time, even though it was already said today that at that time in the parks, pensioners, mothers, food suppliers and purely ordinary people, who had nothing to do with the protests, were found on the streets. What is our key discovery, when I also talk about the work of the Commission to control the intelligence services, is that this Tuesday, October 5, the funds used were excessively, in a way that we have not already mentioned. What will be in your eyes is that, as a result of your personal work and, above all, the work of the police director, both of you should have resigned more than a year ago, even because, as has been revealed, the police director himself has met several times with those who should monitor and evaluate such a work. The Director of Police made it clear to the Commission that he had met several times in preparation of the report with the Commission. Moreover, the Director of Police acknowledged the direct impact on the content of the report, which was later published in public. What happened to the police and the police at the bottom, the well-respected minister, was your misunderstanding of circumstances and, above all, of relations within the police, when you broke the police's relationship with the payroll you made public. Moreover, you have endangered a number of individuals on this list who should not be publicly published for such or other reasons. You have repeatedly threatened and pressured both judges and prosecutors, and in a way that, as a representative of your country not of the SDS, but of all of us Slovenes and Slovenians, of all citizens and citizens living in the Republic of Slovenia, you have actually degraded the whole society by your conduct, because we do not deserve it. The Republic of Slovenia, its citizens and citizens deserve better governance not only by the state, but also especially by police officers and police officers and their work. What needs to be said is that virtually everything is in the palm of your hand. The one who thinks that the country and people, the one who cares about democracy and freedom, will today support interpolation without doubt if he has no personal interests whatsoever. You who will be abstinent, respected, will truly be part of the system. And that's undeniable. For your own and short-term benefits and comfort you destroy Slovenia and all relations within it, including the basic division of power and power in our country. Maybe, and I'm really sorry about this vulgarism, you've crushed the balls of everyone who would hope for any way in your species to think otherwise. Some have withdrawn, some will still withdraw from such policies and will not cooperate with you, but we tell such people that it is necessary to wait until the next elections, because from then on, if we succeed in turning Slovenia into a course of mutual respect, understanding, understanding the rule of law and the principles of sharing of power, we will bring peace into our society again so that everyone will do only the work for which he is competent, and we will also, as a society, understand and say no to such individuals, “no” such policies and such works as are carried out by a party of the SDS so arrogantly when they are practically destroying interpersonal relations in our society. Perhaps there is some fear that you will do everything in your power to interfere with the elections before the elections. As the power to read is, in some ways, even the politicians and politicians themselves are looking forward to spring. You have withdrawn outstanding politically undeclared individuals, conscious primarily of the work of the police, from the so-called Migration Working Group. Instead, as has already been said, they have appointed individuals who have already received internal security procedures in the past. You have also sent a clear message to all subordinates that only those who are loyal to one and only politicians will be able to make progress. The Constitutional Court, in the context of the proposed disputed law which has reached independence, is in the autonomy of the work of the commanders in particular in the way that you put them in a position where all 130 individuals did not know about their own future and who they must be faithful to, whether the SDS parties or the principles of law, the principles of the mission they carry as police officers and police officers. Thank God that only the Constitutional Court has kept him in a way that in every, as has already been said, democratic environment, the country's Minister of the Interior and the Director would immediately resign. Let me not forget another conflict of interest, namely Mr Bradac, Director of the Police Directorate and other security tasks, which are in the capacity of the President of the Hunting Union, despite the fact that the police have already stated in the past that it is inappropriate to allow hunters to actually fire at the game today even with a silencer. This means that Slovenians and Slovenes and citizens and citizens will never hear and know where the bullet came from, which certainly puts the security aspect of the country at the forefront. An example of how a person who is loyal to you and to your policy can, in a dual function, provide something that the police themselves have challenged in the past. We are not talking about individuals who spoke before the commission of inquiry about the fact that they are in the field of human resources exchanges, and this is all recorded on the tape, it has been recognised that the policy has been interfering with human resources policy and that we will not be public discussing it as well. It's a quote from the commission that took place. Madam Minister, at the time of my first implementation, allow me to ask you one and clear question as to the already mentioned colleague who was again employed by the police, even though virtually all the authorities and all individuals who actually assess the possibility of that individual returning to work have given a negative opinion. “ Remember, it’s Škelzen Bajrami, a former employee, ” and I quote from the media Council of 24ur, “in the sector for special tasks of the criminal police administration, from which he had to say good-bye in May 2016 because of an emergency cancellation. [[…]] [[…]] Bajrami, a brother at the same time ten years ago in the suspicious circumstances of the murdered Fatmir Bajrami, ” who again became a member of the interior ministry after Janez Janša’s third term of office. He lost his job and found himself in similar procedures as Mr Urbas, the director of the criminal police, due to mobbing and sexual harassment. Indeed, this is a question to which the public must receive the answers. Because an individual who lost his job because of the suspicion of a crime of mobbing and harassment, sexual harassment, and proved a criminal charge, where he was found guilty of a crime which was not later proven and who received a negative assessment through the examinations, was once again given the opportunity to work in the police during the Janša government. Is it really about the implementation of mafia measures? Is it really a matter of subjugating the police in solely party interests? And is it really about subjugating all the levers of power to prevent the opposition, all those who in any way oppose the policies of John Janša and his subordinates, with every goal, irrespective of the legislation, regardless of the constitutional arrangements we have, and that is still democratic parliamentaryism, which should promote the unity of the various people, making it impossible, in particular, to interact in our country with your assistance, with your repressive fingerprint, which every citizen feels on his own skin or with the non-crossing of the borders of the past, to say municipal borders, or with the repression carried out under one of the principles of democracy, that is to express protests, or simply in human rights policy, as already mentioned? We have practically, and will thus conclude, the Slovenian police subordinated to the SDS with Janez Janša, Hojs, Gorenak, Mahník, Predalič, Kangler, Olai, Urbas, Grah Lazarjevo, Grims on the forehead, who, as it were said, with the top of the Olai police, once Trinar, Jurič, Urbas and Bradač, who are either in conflict of interest or have already been involved in internal security procedures in the past. So, respectable, where is there not only a legislative aspect here, but above all a message-moral aspect that we convey to citizens and citizens? Is everything really allowed in our country? And you're at the top of this, respectable Hoys. By April 24th, you are obviously allowed anything that, I hope, today, one of the brave Members and Members of Parliament will oppose these aspirations and say that such acts are unacceptable. Because there is no other way than to actually support this interpolation today. Otherwise, you just tell citizens and citizens what kind of country the future holds. You mentioned the introduction of fascism and Nazism, the well-respected minister, the Republic of Slovenia trees in the direction of such ideologies. And if you are missing a third, I will add to this the communism to which you are still bound in your party or you have been more committed than any other party present in the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you very much, President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you, President. In fact, Mr Hojs expressed some thanks that we were not disrespectful, that we were not sending him anywhere or anything, and the next moment, of course, he showed his true face and did exactly the same in our direction. Minister, we can't thank you or I can't, because you've shown again and proved once again that you're who you are. With everything that has been said in this presentation of the answer, where else we could have read everything already in this document, which the Government has confirmed, it has once again proved obvious - that Minister Hojs is the embodiment of the arrogance of the government. I think that, in every paragraph, at every moment of this presentation of this response, we can see this. The most obvious and most exemplaric is the phrase: “The content is more important to us than legal formalities.” While I agree in principle that the content is bloody important, even in politics, I think that is the point, but I think that we cannot just swing through legal formalities. Both Minister and Mr Grimes both said that in essence the opposition and all the other protesters were guilty of the situation we have, it is the resistance of people to vaccination, to respect the measures, to everything that the government is doing. I think you're the one who's responsible for these things first. The fact that the Constitutional Court overturned the rulings one by one does not reflect the fact that it was some sort of court-martial, but because these things were poorly prepared, of course, in the most inappropriate way. Of course, the key tactic, we've seen this before on Friday, these governments with its president at the helm, of course, is to scream at how everyone else is guilty and how there are some forces outside that are pressing this and throwing pollen under their feet. We can see this in the stories of the Udbomafs, the deep states, and the dogs, I don't know what. Today we have listened to the minister say how we own all the media in the opposition and how we destroy the government through the Constitutional Court and I don't know what else. In fact, we should sometimes imagine stopping, looking in the mirror, and reflecting a little on what you are actually doing. It is perfectly clear to me that this is your method, that this is the goal of driving these things the way you drive them. But I think that this airtight action is in the sense of "no, no, we're okay, everyone else throws pollen at our feet, they're guilty, they're doing odd things" but it's clear and no one's falling for it anymore. Who else believes that? The minister also calmly said that the police were lazy and snotty. Although he refers to the fact that he addressed union representatives, union confidants. As Matjaž has already said, it is very clearly defined both in the Labour and Organisation Act of the Police, the third paragraph of Article 89, which makes it very clear that trade unionists or trade unionists do not have the rights and duties arising from the status of a police officer. So, Minister, you can't send them to do police work because the law requires them to do union work, because that's why we have unionism in this country, so that those who are truly the highest representatives of unions can do these tasks because it's a serious job. And your latest moves also with legislative changes clearly indicate that we need them, because the lust for lustrations, according to changes, after the personnel tsunamis are present in the police as elsewhere under this government. So I would like to know if there will be an apology pending from the Members of Desus, as Mr Hršak said at the outset. As for other things that Branko Grims has also suggested, our most effective powerpoint. We have seen that electronics has been denied to Minister Hojs, and of course it cannot do to Mr Grimes; perhaps these are the damage to the paper of the environment. As far as this finger-to-finger demonstration is concerned about the protests and all that. The protests didn't just come about. True, some of the coalition's supporters are hustling that the protests started before the government was formed or parallel to the time when the government began to form. Yeah, why? Because people have bad experience with such governments. People remember well what happened between 2004 and 2008, they remember what happened in 2012 - 2013, and such experiences, of course, cause some reactions, reactions. None of these periods ended with some positive stories. 2004-2008 is the period marked by the formation of tycoons and the creation of a bank hole, a catastrophic economic policy leading to overheating of the economy, and then a problem when there was a time when the crisis needed to be resolved. In 2012-2013, however, all people can remember, above all, how in recent breaths the government has called the troika and, in essence, tried to leave Slovenia to Brussels. And these are things that just keep people in mind. You all probably stick to that, or you think people have a short memory, as they like to say, but I think people remember things. And all the protests that have since since then continued in the time of the epidemic have been related to how this epidemic was led. Disobedience of decisions, disrespect of authority, scepticism before any new measures, vaccination, and so on, you can attribute to yourself by catastrophic management. The letter, which some people addressed a few days ago by the President of the Government, should come two years ago, not now as a pre-election campaign. I really hope that the Information Officer will also check whether the President of the Government had the appropriate legal basis for sending the addressed consignments to specific people with names and surnames. You can attribute responsibility to your communication. Just remember Kacin from the beginning of the epidemic, and remember the way the Prime Minister of the government communicated and your half-secret night meetings of the government announced the decrees in the middle of the night. I don't think that's how we can inspire trust and prepare people to respect their decisions. As far as our participation in the protests is concerned. Mr Grims spoke of a “stone in the hand”. I'm afraid of people who don't or don't recognize sarcasm. This picture is from a protest or counter-protest that took place at a time when a protest against women's rights to abortion took place in the centre of Ljubljana, against women's rights to freedom of decision on the child. So “stones in the hands” is such a sarcasm that speaks of a mindset of people who prepare such protests. “Rocks into hands” like in Islam, say, where the stones of women or others who break the standards, and that is what you advocate. As far as the police are concerned at the October 5th protest, there are still a few deceptions, we have heard how the police had to act that way, which of course is not true. The Law on Public Meetings clearly sets out the course in the case of unorganized meetings, that is, Article 32, “if the police on the spot find that there has been an unorganized meeting, alert the participants that the meeting is not organized according to the provisions of this Act and that they are obliged to follow the instructions and actions of the police.” That's paragraph one. That is, when you have a meeting that is not reported, which is not organised, which does not have a charter, then the police have to take over the task by law. Further, “as long as there is a meeting of conduct that requires the meeting to be dissolved, the police will dissolve it”. Some actions are supposed to be true, let's say that this actually happened to some events on Slovenian Road, as Minister Hojs says, but then there's another element, and that's proportionality. Police must and must operate in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as also defined in Article 16 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, which states: "When different police powers can be used to carry out a police task with the least adverse consequences." On 5 October, at a time when the police used water cannon, tear gas, cavalry, dogs and so on as to carry out a police task successfully, following the task of the politicians who were involved in the operational headquarters, they were not the nicest means they could use. And that's the whole point of this problem. The meeting at that time, although disbanded, was not yet violent and proportionality is one of the basic principles by which any repressive apparatus should work, not all cannons, literally from the beginning. And this was a scene that we have not seen in this country before, we have already had more massive protests, but so the massive use of coercive resources at once and the police powers have not been in this country at once. So this emptiness of defense is pretty sad, it's a waste of paper, time and money. By the way, if we're sitting in this hall or not, we're costing the country the same. If we're paid, let's at least be here. Finally, I think it is also important from this point of view, because in fact, the SDS party appears to be some kind of security advocate and this. Now this rhetoric, which Mr Grims has mentioned earlier, is how it is necessary to defend us against refugees and against these strikes and how the opposition is in fact breaking down with these protests or endangering the security of the country, see, we have seen a few weeks ago what it means to sharpen asylum policy, the sharpening with which Minister Hojs boasts now before the end of the presidency. Two people died in Dragonja, and one is a 31-year-old man from Bangladesh, a 10-year-old girl. For the first one, I don't think she knows the name, and for the second one who was deaf and disabled, her name was Rahima. These are the consequences of such a policy, death. More people died at the border in Slovenia than now on the Belarusian-Polish border. And you're bragging about politics. Of course, the wire was placed on the border by the Government of Mirje Cerar with SMC at the helm, but the elevation that you have achieved in this mandate with the International Protection Act with the Aliens Act, with the reintroduction of some extraordinary states and the possibility of mass return, or in particular the rejection of asylum applications, is essentially the real face of these policies. And what you do all the time is just arson. You're chickens. On the one hand, you're smoking a public discourse with your gallbladder around it, and on the other hand, it's a great method for you to take your business further. And these transactions are linked to the acquisition of various institutions in this country, specifically the police and investigative authorities, with some very clear reason to influence who is being investigated, who is not, and who is being punished and who is not. They're out of date, and they're going to be out of date, and there's going to be some investigations involving the visible members of the SDS, and that's, I think, the main purpose. And we should talk about this today, not about the various nebulosis that we were able to hear about mainly from supporters or members of the coalition at the beginning. I hope that we will go in this direction and also hear some convincing answer or rejection of these arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no replica yet. There's no replica yet. You haven't discussed it yet. The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mr Hojs.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much. On the basis of these introductory presentations of the opinions of both the proposer and the parliamentary groups, I will, of course, focus mainly on the facts. Many of you have spoken very emotionally, but I don't think today is the place for feelings, but let's talk about facts. I'll start with Mr. Vatovac's last performance. Look, Mr Vatovec, not only in Dragonja, one died in Ljubljana this night. Not in Dragoja, in Ljubljana one died, if I'm not mistaken, fugitive. Not in the river, in the car along with seven or eight others smuggled through Slovenia. He ran into a traffic light and died unfortunately. And now, if you are convincing the Slovenian public here that what this government is doing is adequately protecting our external borders and is hunting those who are at the expense of the poor or, if I say, those people who are actually having a hard time living are serving a lot, so today it is those who are turning billions in the European space, and when the police and this government are fighting it, you are talking about something else just to try to arouse some emotion in people with a really tragic loss of life on Dragonja. By the way, Mr Vatovec, this girl did not die on the Slovenian side on Dragonja. This girl came in illegally from the Croatian side. And interestingly enough, later this mother and these four children asked for asylum in Croatia. Why she did not do so when she entered Croatia, one can only ask. So obviously its purpose was not asylum, it was eventually coming from a safe country, from Turkey, from Turkey, it was this family, not from Afghanistan, and not from not knowing which Syria, but from Turkey, and of course I could ask for asylum if it was politically persecuted - otherwise I doubt that it would be - in the first safe country. And as long as Europe, and here, of course, our views are clear and this clear position seems to me to have expressed itself very strongly also in the seven-twenty in recent times, last but not least when migrants are being drawn up by the Lukashenko regime on the Polish-European border. Europe is increasingly united in this case. So not only is it that what I think SMC or Mr Miro Cerar did is right, so he started by protecting the state border, there are more and more calls, and I think we will succeed in protecting the external European border by paying the European Union, not just a single country. So those ideas of left-wing people about how it is necessary to open the door wide to anyone, that Europe, I would say, is the place where Paradise is happening, that anyone can enter it, even if it is not entitled to asylum, that we will accept all these things, are concluded by my assessment. And it's right that they're done. These people need to be given an adequate life where they come from, but not through empty promises and through the service of some, I repeat, smugglers serving enormous money in an unfair way, to invite them to Europe. As far as Mr German's debate is concerned, of course this was in his style, but unfortunately, I have to say again, full of lies. Among other things, he said that, not that he even wrote that I was in OKC on October 5th at 3:30 p.m., that's his data on Twitter. I was alone at 3:30 somewhere, I think, at some airport abroad. He further wrote or said that the wages that had been published were illegal, or perhaps he did not say illegal, but he said that I had announced the wages of those who were not supposed to be there, and thus I did not know how many policemen were at risk. So that's a lie, too. On these salaries there is no man who is at any risk, even more, we have ruled out those whom it was clear that they should not be on these payrolls because they work either under cover or are otherwise unjustifiable for this publication. But we have also ruled out those, and I must say this, but I probably don't know if it's right, according to your assessment no, we should publish them, and on my initiative we have also excluded those who deserve less than some decent amount of resources that a person would earn for decent work, so that there will be no negative estimates on the part of these socially weak people. You also wrote in your own interpretation that the information officer recognized that this was illegal. This is clearly falsely written, even more, the information officer even wrote that there is no reservation in the publication of these salaries, so that in fact all salaries in the public sector should be public and, of course, it is up to the chairman to decide whether to publish them or not. The thesis of Mr Vatovac, who claimed it, is also very interesting, I think that he claimed in his opening remarks that they are under this government, which is under me, that meetings are prohibited and illegal. Now, I don't know if I've seen these 90 or 80 wrong or I don't know how many of these meetings have been. Were these meetings or were they not? I had a feeling they were. I didn't feel like there would be any. So I don't know, I didn't feel like anything was forbidden. It is true, however, that all of them were carried out illegally because none of them had been declared. And what Mr Grims said about the protest they staged, and if I am not mistaken, even your fellow Members of the MPs or in the front lines, perhaps not purely from the Members of Parliament or not, but I know that there were representatives of the SD, and Dr Stromajer, for example, someone else. By the way, that protest wasn't reported. The protest where you came to persuade Mr Primac, who, by the way, declared his protest in the same way as the game, received all the appropriate permits, including all those over 300 permits there before the court, when we protested because some Members illegally stole the mandates, were all reported, look at the fraction, they were all reported. Nowhere did the police have to intervene, nowhere did the police have to set up a fence, nowhere did the police have to prepare any medical teams that would actually be needed in case of any serious cases, all the security was taken over by the organizer, in which case it was Mr Primc, and all things went smoothly. Unlike your protests, where you participated, because we have this in interpretation, I think we have now answered or written, who was there, from Mesca, Fajon, Koprivec, not to list all of these names further, which you have been involved in – illegal – because they were not reported - protests. I don't know why you didn't report them. You know how to sign up and take responsibility for it. As for the LMŠ party, which is not here now, I would like to ask you gentlemen, I think that Mr Prebil, who spoke about this, was talking about transfers. First, I would say that none of these people who were transferred to Tacen were transferred to the same way that the director used to. Mr. Anjin [[Lapsus linguae. Aleš Hojs apologizes further for misrepresenting the name of the Director-General of the Police. Right: Simon the Great.]] For example, the Director of the Police was, if I am not mistaken or I am not mistaken, that Mrs Tatjana Bobnar was replaced by her when she was appointed to the client of the LMŠ. And this Mrs Tatjana Bobnar has moved this director to Tacen into some attic room, without giving him anything to do, so she actually mobilized him. None of those who are now being moved there are being moved to the attic room. Nobody's out of work. Everyone has very important responsibilities, very smart responsibilities. One of them, for example, which Mrs Bobnareva has already started as Director, is the preparation of an appropriate methodology for the selection of new chiefs or those to be appointed by the Police Director to lead positions. Mrs Bobnareva wrote to the Ministry during her term of office that it was necessary to arrange for police mandates, so that, of course, it was necessary to properly regulate the way in which these potential candidates were selected with some meritocracy. And she ordered that to external contractors who, unfortunately, did not get much together in two years or a year and a half. Now I don't know if he likes to work or if they're underpaid, anyway. Well, by the way, I've instructed the Director of Police, I've instructed them to prepare these criteria by the end of this month, but by 15 or by the end of this month, so that the criteria will be known, that we will publish them publicly before we issue an application for job vacancies for so many and so many police chiefs. So all of these will be named on the basis of some criteria, some meritocracy and that. And these criteria actually began and were ordered by Mrs Tatjana Bobnar. So I don't know why it's so loud, but now that we've started to do this, which seems to be the most normal thing to do, but now it's such a political circus. Two debates were very worrying today. Both discussions were held by SD members, i.e. Mr Germany and Mr Baković. Both said that the Constitutional Court has held back the decision to implement this Article on the organisation and work of the police. So I was actually shocked about that. Apparently, the Constitutional Court is now run by a SD party or the SD party knows how the Constitutional Judges will decide. I have to admit, on Friday, or I don't know what day it was, I fell for Mr. German's nose. Mr. German announced it first. Mr German said that the Constitutional Court had decided that this article of the law was inconsistent with the Constitution and had suspended implementation. That's what he wrote. I reacted to that. Immediately after that, I was called by the press, so that at this moment all the journalists to whom I said, of course, it is clear that all journalists are not lying, everyone is not lying, it is clear that no, but many, too, are clear, and of course I am apologizing here today from this place to all those journalists who are not lying. But the fact that the SD party doesn't know how the Constitutional Court ruled is, in my opinion, scandalous. Today, an hour ago, we checked whether this information, which Mr Baković and later Mr German presented in this National Assembly, had been made - only a decision had been taken on the retirement of the elderly. None of what you said the Constitutional Court adopted was true. It's not public either. So they're obviously giving instructions to constitutional judges on how to react. I have already said this from the outset that the Constitutional Court is obviously part of the drive to fortify power or the desire for power of the left political option, or they know more than we know others, so they are informed in advance of their decisions, which, according to my opinion, is either scary for the National Assembly or for this society. As for the debate which I think was the lowest in this presentation, Mrs Servant, I will not lose my words. So she was talking about me increasing Nazism, and yeah, I don't know what else. So really low, so very at the level of that first interpolation and Mr German, which, by the way, I forgot to say, about the complacency with Mr German I can speak here, I have no words. Because this is about as much as if I, as an actor of Slava, measured with you as Ronald. I don't have an answer here. I can't discuss complacency with you. As far as Visionary's hearings are concerned, some of you asked me that question. Let me make it clear again, and that's how it's written. I was told that there were supposed to be hearings from Minister Visiak, informed maybe 14 days or three weeks before they came to the public. So I didn't hear these sounds, and that's what I wrote. I was merely informed that such hearings exist, that they will certainly come out very quickly or at the latest before the elections, exclusively and for one reason to discredit the SDS party and, of course, Minister Visiak himself. So that's not gonna happen. That kind of information, you know, I hear 100 every day, so in your opinion, I should write a hundred criminal charges or suspicions every day. That's really amazing. Even more, you even wrote in the interpretation that you should report because there was a serious suspicion that this crime would be committed. So, now I don't know, hearings are 14 years old, and you're talking about this crime being committed. What's the crime now? Is that a release of these earphones? That might be it. Maybe you should report it. But this, I know, is what police are doing intensively and will investigate whether these hearings have been legally obtained, or will also explore what some insist that Visjak has led someone to non-payment of taxes, which I think the Minister has already argued and completely refused on Friday. Finally, the Minister's support that he remained in the ministerial position shows that these allegations were essentially unfounded. To Mr Krsak of the party Desus, as far as the apology is concerned, I can apologize to all those policemen or police officers who have been listening to trumpets, left trumpets for months, from Youth, Uncensored, POPTV, and I don't know who else to call them lazy or lazy. I already said that in the introduction today. Well, I can make excuses for them, but this apology has to go a little bit more in the direction of not listening to all the nonsense that these media are constantly producing. I didn't know what today's media attack would be like, though. I saw him this morning. So now the problem is that Mr Jankovic is also being investigated if he is being investigated. That's obviously a problem for the media. But it's not a problem what I wrote in August. I wrote in August that, given that I worked for 25 years as construction workers, it is not a problem to cost, say, an investment in Ljubljana instead of costing 25 million to cost 40 million. That's obviously not the problem. That's obviously not a problem for Levi. Nor does it matter that in these 40 million we give 10 million to design. The design evaluation according to UCIN is an old term, i.e. from Yugoslav times, or according to the new regulations of the Engineering Chamber or according to the tariffs of the German Engineering Chamber, this value may be between 5, 8, at more demanding facilities 10%. Not 25! We will be paid because this is ordered by Mr Jankovic 25%. Even more, he published an invitation to tender where he said that this investment would cost about 19 or 20 million, and then he got one offer, be careful, one offer where the price is 40 million. And nobody thinks it's weird. Even more than that, all of a sudden, I hear there's an annex on the table where this investment is going to cost $60 million. And when I write as a citizen, not as a minister, it is also, of course, a faik they produced today on this portal of yours, I don't know what it's called, uncensored or odladak.si writes that I've sent someone to investigate Jankovic. No, look, there is no need to investigate Jankovic, but all the corruption that is taking place in this country needs to be investigated. And if Jankovic is doing them, I don't think he's a holy cow in this society. I believe he's not a holy cow to you, either, or maybe he is, because he said two days ago that he would politically support you in the fight against the next election. You are not defending any support, even those to whom we have written off, for example, I think I do not know how much, 30 million Euros of debt or something like that, to him and his companies, to his family. As I said, I didn't know what would come out today, so it came up, I mean nothing unusual, but of course it's clear that your media can, of course, produce lies in full. And they are, of course, as expected, even before today's interpolation. As for Mr Hrsak's reply concerning Croatia and Schengen, I must say that the Government has not taken any decision on this, of course, it is still time. I have always been, and I believe, that most citizens, too, are a great advocate of Croatia entering the Schengen area. This will significantly burden our police at the southern border and allow our citizens to move much more liquid and securely across this southern border. As you know, our citizens like to travel to Croatia, especially in the summer months, and of course I see no reason not to be responsible for deciding on this on the European floor, to give full support to Croatia and, of course, to the last Council. It's still kind of a long way to go. Now under our leadership we have adopted the so-called council conclusions, this is the first stage of this path. Now the matter is going to the European Parliament, and if the European Parliament takes the matter relatively quickly forward, we can also reach Council decisions in the first half of next year, those are the final decisions allowing the formal member or allowing him to enter the Schengen area. So, of course, I will continue to take this entry. Of course, Croatia's problem is in fulfilling or recognising an arbitration agreement, just, you know, it is typical of you, you would obviously, that is, left-wing people would rule out, not participate, it is actually your agenda for the past year and a half, but of course we want, at least this government wants to cooperate with its neighbours, at least in those places where it can agree. I believe we will. What remains open will remain open, but of course that does not mean that you should fight with anyone, look over guns or anything like that. Of course, our support remains open here. We have, as regards the implementation of the law on labour in the police, which is linked to trade unions, I will, of course, prepare a detailed explanation for my next intervention. But what you've somehow said so far shows that you don't know the hierarchy of collective bargaining. The collective agreement on non-agriculture is not over the collective agreement signed by the police unions with the police director and the minister. In this case, not with me, so to speak, these are contracts that were signed, I think in 2017 or 2018, if I am not mistaken, somewhere. Of course, it is the power to cancel these contracts, both sides, that each contractual partner has the power to terminate this contract. It clearly states in the contract that power is, once again, I repeat what I have said before that the power of union work is more than 50%, and this does not mean that these police officers are not obliged to train themselves. It is difficult for me to imagine that someone who has been working for three or four years as a union worker could then, without carrying out tests or shooting training, train training related to new legislation, and so on, properly exercise police powers. Now, perhaps another word that relates to the protest itself and to the commission. Thus, in the previous law, this commission, which is now envisaged in the law as an independent commission, was not envisaged. One of the authors of that law is Mr. Žabrl, current advisor to the LMŠ party, who is actually the author of this part of the law, which was adopted at the time and which, of course, allows the director of the police to set up an independent commission. This independent commission does its work as soon as it was appointed, you said that it was not independent and so on, but it was still to be expected. Well, now, on the basis of this commission, it has been shown that, of course, the police have carried out all their activities in accordance with the law, that these activities have, of course, also led to certain shortcomings, and not to illegality. I also have here prepared later, according to what you have said, Mr Vatovec, because the projector is failing, I also have prepared pictures, so that you can see who is committing the violence and who is not. We'll see these pictures later, on a more appropriate date, say about half past seven, when more people are watching it than they are now. We'll deal with this later, so I'm putting an end to my intervention at this point. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. He has the floor to propose Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u40	A couple of responses. As far as what the minister said at the end, you say, yes, the left-wings would fight with everyone. When you spoke about Croatia's entry into the Schengen, I would like to stress here that you are answering this question to Mr Hrsak, who is still deciding whether or not to support you today, so that I would be a little more considerate in these matters, but I would point out that since the adoption of the arbitration decision in Levi, we have advocated that Croatia should be released to the Schengen as soon as possible. As far as the collective agreement is concerned. I mean, a collective agreement can be established, but it's not above the law. And once again, the Police Organization and Work Act makes it clear that if a unionist is professional, they do not belong to him the right and duty of the work relationship, so you will find it difficult to find another interpretation here. But the key is protest. Look, no protest is illegal. You already have a provision in the Public Collections Act, of course, that protests must be declared, but you do not have a provision that, unless it is declared illegal, and that all the participants in such a protest must be put in a box and taken away somewhere. There is a provision in the law that, in the event of an undeclared meeting, the police are the ones who take over the protection and care of public order and peace, not that it is an illegal protest. So you have to be careful with the dictates. True, you have worked hard since the beginning of this government to discourage people from exercising this constitutional right. When they were writing on the floor, in public places with chalks, when they were glued to paper feet, when they were expressing their disagreement with this government on wheels, you were deeply and persistently ingraining them. So, at every step of the way, you tried to write assignments to people who expressed their views. And in this way, this is what I was talking about in my opening statement, you tried to ban the protests or with these actions you actually wanted to discourage people from expressing their opinions and views. Of course you didn't make it. I think that Friday's protests have been relatively numerous all the time, and I think that public opinion polls also consistently show how people feel about this government. Yesterday just showed that 70% of respondents do not support this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u41	He has the floor to propose Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. I will briefly and simply answer and ask the Minister the last question he has not answered. The Minister and whoever enters the world of politics must be given some personal integrity, but, of course, in the eyes of people, a credible person, when expressed, must be supported by words. Minister Hojs, we've been a respected minister from the very beginning, and you can blame me as much as you want, and we've proved your lies, and we've confirmed them, not only in the National Assembly, but also in the media, and especially in the authorities like the prosecutors. We always face the dilemma of whether words are true or false. So this time you turned around a little bit and pointed your finger at me so that I was the one who was supposed to generate certain untruths. Let me tell you, you mentioned Twitter when the campaign started on October 5th that I was spreading a fake nous, not really, I asked about Director Olai's Target. At that time, we also revealed a number of details on the Target, which proved to be more than real. I asked, at 4:30 p.m., so at 3:30 p.m., an order was issued that crowds, protestors and civilians who had nothing to do with the protest could be resisted by all means. Minister, an hour later it was issued, my question was only a question. That's another thing. You're talking about the fact that there were no consonants in the issuance of wages. The Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services shall keep the name of an individual who is part of a security service in a foreign service who has been forced to withdraw from one of the countries for the purpose of issuing such data. The third thing you mentioned as a lie was that the Constitutional Court was supposed to hold back and that I was the one spreading the fake nos. The first news was released in the evening, if you were right in any way, but you weren't. I have to say this because people will not think that your lie is the truth – it was not the spreading of fake nuse, but only the sharing of news from one of the central Slovenian media, and you want to show it as a court, even the Constitutional Court, subordinated to the Social Democrats. What moral authority do you have, Your Honor Minister, in instigating, of course. But no one believes it, not even your colleagues and colleagues. Let me read the address for you myself, so we can understand each other slowly: “The Constitutional Court has not yet completed its consideration of the requirement to suspend the implementation of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police.” This is today's address, like this one, so I shared that address on that Friday, and this address also has nothing to do with SD and connection with the Constitutional Court. Dear Minister, give me a clear and loud voice – not to me, but to the general public – to answer what is the matter with this Mr Bajrami, former translators of Mr Janez Janša. Indeed, Mr Ferenc also testified before the Commission about Mr Bajrami's re-employment. Indeed, the speech was that his re-employment had been proposed by the Administration of the Criminal Police, even during Mr Juric's time. Let me say that the Director of the Crime Police and Bajrama have been in similar or similar procedures in the past, so they are acquaintances who have even come together in procedures. Where the Office of the Organisation and the Personnel has issued an opinion that the employment process has been or has not been established or has been requested for an opinion. Mr Ferenc, on the basis of the information available to him at the time, and also the fact that the extraordinary resignation of Bajrami was confirmed by the Higher Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, disagreed with this procedure. According to further explanations, the predecessor of Director Olaj, Mr Jurič, also agreed with him. What follows is a very interesting, distinguished minister. Why are you hiring a person who has actually given him a negative opinion on virtually every instance? So, the reintroduction of Bajrami's employment proposal came at a time when Mr Olay, as has already been said, took over. Ferenc said that they had again given a negative opinion, with Mr Olay, according to him, agreeing. So Mr Olay initially agreed with the opinion of the services in charge. And Mr Ferenc continued to hear that only later, when he was transferred by himself, he had heard that, despite all the warnings of Mr Bajrami, he had been rehired. However, I am interested in the same as Mr Ferenc on the Commission: How and how is it even possible that you rehired Mr Bajrami? What correlation does it have to do with all of you? What does this have to do with the director of the crime police, Mr. Urbas? Why did everyone give a negative opinion, even Dr. Olai agreed with it, and why did you hire Mr. Bajrami again? Please answer for the magnetogram. It is an important matter and it is certainly a magnetogram that will perpetuate your position and your words in Mr Bajrami's employment. Mr. Secretary, you were talking about the protests. You have been the instigator of all those who, according to your words, are responsible for carrying out protests in Slovenia, would also be responsible, even financially, for the costs incurred. Let me just tell you, it's a big, big, big, bad democracy. If not known, the legal network, the organiser, has not proved the difference between the initiator and the organiser of the protests. It is clear that you are targeting a group of individuals who peacefully issue initiatives for these protests at five. So I am talking about one of the values achieved, one of the constitutional rights, a right that, as a society, democratic, would allow public opinion or a personal opinion to be expressed in a public way. So the legal network says that state authorities cannot as an organiser count someone who gives guidance to people who care about the program at the meeting. And this can also attach events around Zlatko Čordić, who in a well-known protest have publicly taken away his freedom in a way that demonstrates, clearly, your power, irresistibly, when leading the police, directly, so I am talking about direct police leadership. And I'm sure you shouldn't do that with your functions. You're the one who's responsible for creating the conditions for police and police officers to have basic conditions and more for smooth operation. However, you are not the kind of person who would somehow direct the action that you demonstrated your power on a proven yet-completed protest one November year ago, when you marched with special units, extremely to the teeth armed as invisible, in the middle of Ljubljana at a time when protests took place in the next street. And that's another one of the many lies we got you on. At the time, you reasoned that you were not the first minister to attend the protests after the action had been concluded. It is clear when the action was completed that reports exist. At that event, you marched on the Slovenian road in Ljubljana almost an hour before the official end of the protests with special units. Dear Minister, I won't, because I have relatively little time to get involved in a lame fight, just let me justify the story of Bajrama. The Slovenian public must know why this gentleman is so important to the SDS party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mr. German. It's true. I've forgotten three answers to your questions. Now I've looked at this record one more time. I've written a lot of them down. I just forgot. Apologize first. The gentleman I spoke of, who Mrs Tatjana Bobnar put in the attic room in Tacno, is not Anjin, but the Great One. I made a mistake in the names of these directors so that the magnetogram will also make this clear. As far as what you've said and what you haven't said and what you've been publishing. Look, Mr. German, I don't know what you're publishing and what you're giving. Let's hear what you said an hour ago, and what Mr Baković said almost two hours ago. Or read it, because you have it there. You have spoken and this has also been said by Mr Baković that the Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of this law in that part relating to the appointment of new chiefs. Sorry, that's what you were saying. What else can I say if you speak like that, as you know what the Constitutional Court has decided to order them, what should they decide? Now you've read what's true. But three minutes ago, you read what's true. The Constitutional Court has not yet ruled on this. Then let's say the same thing now and don't lie then ten minutes or three hours ago. As far as Mr Bradac is concerned, which you have explicitly mentioned here, I would not speak about him to ad persons, but I will speak to ad persons because he is, by chance, the President of the Hunting Union of Slovenia. He was the president before me, and I think the president is already the second term, if I'm not mistaken. Mr Lado Bradač is an extremely professional and extremely professional official of the state administration. That's why I named him because I thought he was the director of the Directorate. As I know, it's left-handed in political belief, but it doesn't really bother me as long as people work professionally, honestly, as they have to. Mr Bradač, I think that this was, I do not know the exact date, but I can also get it, Mr Poklukar said that in full withdrawal from the adoption of the arms law which, by the way, had been prepared and placed in public hearing by the previous government of Mr Marjan Sarc, he informed the minister that he was withdrawing from the adoption or participation in the drafting of this law in view of the potential conflict of interest. And that's what he's been doing all along. So Mr. Bradach had nothing to do with this marriage because he wanted to do it alone. Since I was also informed that he had already done so to the former minister, I certainly did not include him in any coordination or preparation for the adoption of this law. By the way, it must be said that in most countries, in 15 countries of the European Union, pockets are used, so there is nothing unusual about them. And just the opposite, as you said, is used not to burden the environment, so that noise does not needlessly burden the environment. So I don't know who prepared this reminder or a reminder or I don't know what. It could have been prepared for you by the Desus gentlemen. I'm talking about that new Desus. There, for example, Mr Felix Krope, who, as I have read, takes over Desus and the old police guard takes over Desus, I am now talking about this new Desus or that led by Mr Jasnic, who have different ambitions. By the way, this Mr Felix Krope was legally convicted of using police funds for private purposes. I think it's a tent for one party, but I don't know what else, so he was a special. This gentleman, however, was legally convicted and therefore lost his job as a police officer. As for the last question about Mr Bajrami, which you are asking me about, I am not in charge of the police, and I've been saying this all the time, I'm talking here, I'm talking at the Ministry. I don't know Mr Bajrami, I don't know how they chose him, I don't know what the procedures were, these procedures don't go through me, I don't sign any of them. I sign for those people, and I agree with those people who work at the Ministry of the Interior, not the police. So obviously you, Mr. German, are more staff than I am inside the police, who are all of these information known to you. Now I don't know where you got them. Perhaps as head of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, perhaps from there or because you said, from the hearing before that investigative witness in front of Mr Medved. Unfortunately, in this case, I can't give you an answer because people in the police department don't hire me, the Director General of Police.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Quite clearly, Minister. When we find you with your fingers in marmalade, you know nothing and paint. It's a typical reaction. Just to tell you what he looks like as your interlocutor when we ask you something you're not ready for and you're surprised at. They've been talking about Mr. Bajrami for 14 days. This was also one of the central moments on the investigative committee that concern you. These are the events of the police, according to the conduct and mode of operation you have, it's impossible not to go through your office, Your Honored Minister. As you mentioned, you have extremely professional colleagues preparing all matters as we say in the law, I will later use your expertise. We also have all the laws drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior, which have been detained or defined as constitutionally controversial in any way. We are talking so much about this government that it works for people, as you say, and for police officers, where it is practically searching for all the copies, so that we can go around the legislation and create a real political police, as has already been said, with Janez Janša at the summit, with all the state secretaries and police directors, who, in any case, are able to prove their connection to the SDS, even with those police directors you have replaced, it is possible to see simply that their children decide to support the esdees youth. So it's not possible to prove that the entire hierarchy of police and ministry doesn't belong to one party. And if you want, honourable Minister, a beautiful future for all, left, right, you don't care, it's important that you're capable, even if you have left provenance, then it's your duty not only to create the impression that you're completely apolitical, but actually you have to be in the lead of the police primarily professional and above all apolitical. Which I'm sure you didn't. And we prove this to you all the time, and the time will come for you to face your actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We can start with a debate between Members and Members. First he gets the word Janez Moškrič, and then he gets the mag behind him. Marko Koprivc. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u48	Nice greetings to all present. Thank you so much for saying that. Obviously, I am the first, so it is appropriate that all of us who will be debated should also point out that we are discussing at least in the spirit of Friday's interpretation, that there will be no unnecessary procedural and unnecessary replicas. This sometimes leads us away from the basic purpose, which is not for the sake of the rules of procedure and not the ethical code. That's it. I firmly believe that at this time, in the first and second times, the Minister was able to explain certain things. But it's so hard to hear from each other. It's hard to hear what the facts are, which is also explained by documents, but some people always go away from it and don't want to hear it. Look, if we're going to the first charge, we really need to get back to the time before this government does. The time before this government was the time when the covida-19 virus spread in the world and even in Slovenia and when it gave way to the then Prime Minister. I myself do not believe that the resignation of the Prime Minister has caused a political crisis. The political crisis has led to opposition, protests that have taken place prior to the composition of this government. Although some claim that this is a democratic process, these protests were essentially a call to violate the Slovenian Constitution. The Slovenian Constitution clearly provides for the formation of the government after the elections and in the meantime. Of course, the government's assumptions about the elections at the time are also an option, but they do not follow directly the resignation of the government. It is said that protests can also result in a violation of democracy, and this needs to be made clear. However, we have managed to overcome all of this, it is said that democracy has won and the government has been democratically set up. It had to face immediate situations where certain rights of individuals were limited. The neighbouring European countries and the others have done exactly the same. They had to take measures not adopted by Europe after World War II. In Slovenia we had some when there was a 10-day war when we had to go to shelters, and that was still at the level of an individual's decision. What did democratic protests give birth to? The already sung communication and poor functioning of this government, an extraordinary situation. If Mr Kacin, who was involved in the communication of this government, was an indicator that this government could go beyond its right-centred political circle, what a defeat had taken place over Mr Kacin – media, political. What did he want? Just what people needed: information, what's going on, even though the profession, politics, the whole world didn't know how long it would take, how long it would take. That was what people were getting through Kacin. But what Kacin was involved in through the media and left-wing politics, we know. This is not the subject of this interpretation today, but it is the work of the minister of this government. Despite the fact that it is already bad enough, we have continued to protest, according to our own words. Police officers. The task of police officers is preventive. Just like we need organizers to organize mass events. Preventive security measures should be taken to ensure safety at major mass protests. We know they were unorganized, clearly no role was given, so this was the task of the police. What did they serve? First your presence, then the fence, including the water cannon and the tear gas. What, though, did they not use in other lands? Rubber and tonf. No participant was harmed by these funds that every police officer has on hand every day., Have we seen the footage of these attacks in other countries? Rubber and tonfe were in the air, and it was raining on the protestors. I am proud of the Slovenian police officers that they have managed to ensure public order and peace in a different way. You're talking about exceeding their powers. I said they have to be at the beginning. When a violation occurs, it's too late. We were at the border with this on September 15th, that's 20 days before your 5. 10. when it was also sung in interpolation. At that time, everyone hoped that after so many protests, there would be so much sanity that no major accidents would occur. The cost of the risk, as it is called professionally, was on this medium, if I remember correctly. It is said that everything that could be activated was not activated in the first phase. What happened to us? I was in the National Assembly. At 4 p.m., a joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space was held. This has already been discussed by my colleagues and colleague Škrinjar here for this speaker. We couldn't leave the National Assembly. The crash and I claim that happiness, because it was still relatively warm in autumn, were the doors and windows of the large room open and the pyrotechnic product was thrown in the immediate vicinity of the open window, could also have been the fire in the National Assembly. It is said that all the efforts made by police officers under the leadership of the current Minister and Director have been aimed at ensuring public order and peace. And here we run to the third point of the anti-constitutional. Our constitution has Article 32. Article 32 of the Constitution clearly states that our movement and freedom should be limited. If we go only to this part of the violation of public order and do not go into spreading infectious diseases, all of this is written in this article of the Constitution. That is why I myself have repeatedly questioned any decisions made by constitutional judges, because I understand the Constitution as the basis. We see throughout the entire time of democracy that a number of laws prove to be unconstitutional. Thank God, we have a Constitutional Court. That's how we have our democracy. But the basis is the Constitution. If the Constitution makes it clear that if matters arise from a constitutional basis for public health and public protection, it is understood that human rights should not be violated. We didn't need the law on infectious diseases for so many years. Just like the law on police duties and powers. Years ago, when it was intended not to go too far into the right of assembly, we know what happened to us. Destruction of this building and also in another part of Slovenia damage to public buildings. And that's the main clue that this KUL coalition has been leading forward all along. What would autocratic guidance mean? In protest, a rubber band, two hours in jail, in three hours, a court of law. There was neither one nor the other nor the third at this time of all protests. But it was that the procedures were carried out. First the detention for some, then we know how everyone has walked free, but in order of all legal proceedings. This is what the European Commission, which we have had, concludes at the end of the day. So, public institutions, democratic institutions are working. Even in this case, which has already been described today, I will be milder than the Minister, it is said, that I am glad that the Constitutional Court has not yet decided by this moment what is the state of this new law on police, when we have renamed commanders to chiefs and when we have settled our mandate in mandate periods. We know that today we would refer to one or the other. Today, there is no need to refer to this decision. That means the sixth point is essentially irrelevant. The Minister explained clearly what the suspicion of the crime of listening is. Again, it is catastrophic that in this country, ministers, democratic ministers of democratic governments in democracy, are being recorded, these data are being archived and then processed. This has also been said about protests that people have enough of this and so on. Look, people are proud of those policies that have been able to bring this Slovenia into democracy. To democracy. That's why it's right that these people are sometimes in power. There are some big problems here. Those who consider themselves proud heirs of the previous system or who glorify any matter of the previous system. The previous system has been undemocratic and in the previous system the procedures that you are now putting on this democratically elected government have been the same. And that's catastrophic. But you don't have to replicate me because I said you didn't have to. Today, each side will tell its own story. The Minister has everything well-founded. But to go three months ahead of the election campaign to do an interpellation, that is, I think, your election campaign, which then the government side or coalition party can just join and say success. The fact that police are now equipped to get a higher salary to make a certain order in the leadership, in terms of a transparent transition between functions, is a plus that will prove justified and necessary in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Procedural? [[advertising from the hall]] Proposer Nick Prebil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm responding as a proponent. Mr Moškrič, thank you very much for your debate, but I regret to disagree with it. The first thing I would warn you about is that you've been taught well in the client and you know how to deceive people properly, but you just have to be explained. You said the Constitution spoke of human rights being restricted. Of course, the constitution talks about it. In the meantime, you have made it clear, and I will read to you that there will be no misunderstandings, articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution, which clearly state that restricting rights is only possible and only by law. With this constitution, certain human rights and fundamental freedoms are exceptionally permissible to be suspended or restricted only in war or state of emergency. Now tell me what we had in our country when these rights were restricted. We had an epidemic. Of course we had it. We also had critical moments that we still have today. But we've all asked you what procedures need to be carried out and you haven't performed these procedures. Why not? Because it was easier to rule as you ruled by decrees. Before I give my word to the next panellists, I will stop as a motioner, and allow me to have a few short so-called replicas of what Mr Minister has said. Initially, it was said that the findings of this interpolation were essentially too wide and exceeded the powers of the minister. That's why, Minister, these marks are so wide because you work outside your jurisdiction during your ministry. Then you spoke here that the rulings began with the government of Marjan Sarca and that the Minister of Health was the one who began ruling with the decrees. It's a typical delusion, as we've seen before. Under a law that had not been repealed, the Minister of Health was competent to make a decision such as he had taken at the time when almost no one knew about it when the whole of Europe was facing an increase in the number of infections and did not know how to take the right action. You, the distinguished minister, and your government have gone to introduce these changes into the PKP, in these mega-Romanian laws – the tenth will be shortly ahead of us – all of which are in but what should be. And I'm not gonna let you say here that we're completely unconstructive, that we just tear down everything that doesn't hold. We were at the beginning of the LMŠ when it was clear that you were also facing something that had not been known so far, extremely constructive. We supported the first CAP because we thought it was taking the right steps. When you started bringing in all the rats and everything else, it was clear that everything else was behind this epidemic. And that's when our constructiveness ended, because human rights and their freedoms were at the top of the line, and then everything else. If we were to pursue the objective of health protection, instead of introducing everything else and everything else that is at stake - and a lot of this was abolished and found illegal in the Constitutional Court - then we could trust you and, unfortunately, we can't. As it is said, you have gone to a much higher level than what you read to the previous government, you have accepted hundreds of decrees, many unconstitutional and illegal. You say such and similar things are accepted in Austria and Germany. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you want to look at this on purpose or if you want to make an impression that we don't know anything in the National Assembly. But all these restrictions, which were adopted in Germany, Austria or any other Member State of the European Union, were adopted in Parliament, the Minister, not in the Government, in Parliament. The Decision may have entered into force in order to achieve its objectives, but it was finally confirmed in the National Assembly. That's the first thing. Second of all, Minister, I'd like to respond to the extra deception, the lies, whatever you want to spend here again on this client, as well as the things you're supposed to say. And I'll tell you. You spoke in response to my position that none of the people you moved were working on some attic and they had smart assignments. Well, now I'm going to tell you what these people who have such clever responsibilities say. Mr. Boštjan Lindav – you solved him – is currently a senior police adviser in the leadership of the GPU, where he only has access to his e-mail. That's the job. None of these people really know what to do in those structures, because they were only withdrawn, that you, Minister, have disposed of them, because you do not like their work or their political or internal preferences, because we all know that they must not publicly identify or join the parties, but it is quite clear where all these people you have now set up, of course without knowledge and proper competence, that I am not talking about people on the investigative committee who have clearly warned you that certain people will not undergo security tests, and that you or the Director General of the Police, however - that you are saying that the Director General of the Police is calling and that you have nothing to do with this, are empty pumpkins that no one in this country believes, except perhaps your followers. So I would ask here that we are so correct and that we talk about the facts. This interpolation is based solely and solely on facts that are verifiable and the facts that have already been proven to you in one part on the commission of inquiry, and the other, the minister, will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, followed by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Slovenia urgently needs changes. When we look at Aleš Hojs, we see not only his actions, which are worthy of judgment, but, above all, how everything should be different in Slovenia than it is now. Instead of political police – professional and independent police. Instead of excessive force - the power of dialogue. Instead of fighting freedom of assembly, fighting corruption and crime. You claimed that with violence on the Ljubljana streets instead of the human militia, we got the state police. Mr. Secretary, you're not ashamed. The police, as a repressive apparatus of the state, must serve human security, not an liberal government, which, by the way, is without the majority support of citizens and citizens. Perhaps it is worth reminding you that the protests of the late 1980 ’ s, when people protested to support your leader, John Janša, were not reported. But, Mr. Hoys, the then government did not use police violence against peaceful protestors. However, the Romanian self - holder Nikolai Ceausescu served to maintain his authority. Every detail of the Jancist regime is just a matter of chance, but since we live in a democratic republic, we must strive for zero tolerance for violence both by citizens and citizens and by the state apparatus. We must say no to repression. Therefore, such conduct as we have seen by Minister Hojs has no place in a democratic society that respects the Constitution and laws. It is true, however, that in a normal democratic society, a minister would no longer be a minister if only one quarter of the Members and Members were trusted in Parliament. Marjan Dikaucič and Andrej Vizjak would no longer be a minister in a democratic society after more Members have voted in favour of their discharge than they have voted in favour of staying. Your Honor! It is time for the leadership of the country to take back capable, honest and democratically committed people. There is little hope that today Aleš Hojs will be resolved, but there is, respected and respected, a great hope that the people of the next spring, with high electoral participation, will plebiscite the red chart of this government, the government of chaos, conflict and corruption. The riots, the tear gas, the violence, the excessive use of police force, it's chaos. Medna is even directly directed by the Minister of the Interior of the Operational Communications Centre. Planned generation of social divisions, insults, lack of any responsibility, unjustified copying of guilt against protestors, opposition and civil society, under the cover of the epidemic, total subordination of all social sub-systems. This creates a conflict, another characteristic of this government. Exploiting the power to wrongly gain benefits for themselves and for their political thinkers. That is, respected and respected, corruption. The government's actions are exactly in line with that definition, and I repeat: it is a government of chaos, conflict and corruption. Respected and respected! Slovenia needs a different leadership. The Social Democrats are ready for this. Kacin, Hojs, Janša, Visjak, Snow White and others show us how to share and rule. Divide et empire. That people aren't numbers. The tear gas in the streets is no illusion, and the rounding of people reading the constitution is unfortunately a reality. That's not how it works anymore. Slovenia must show warmth instead of fear, solidarity instead of segregation and connection instead of closure. Your Honor! There's no time to talk about this government today. It is time to agree on how we will lead Slovenia after these elections, how we will restore professionalism and independence to the Slovenian police, how we will restore confidence in the rule of law, how we will restore by social dialogue the trust that has been lost to those who are unable or worthy to give up in the search for their own benefits. You are an embarrassment to the police, to stop and to democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivc. Again you have shown the way of your speech, which the Slovenians already know. A man who worships murderers, a man who says he's a proud heir to the communists, a man who invites protests. And let's see what those protests were like, those nonviolent protests of yours. Look, this is how they started, with Molotovka there at the intersection of Slovenska and Šubičeva. This is how they started. By overturning traffic signs. Look, here's to throwing the dice. These are your nonviolent protests, Mr. Koprivc. Do you see? That's it. It is also right for the Slovenian public to see this. When the police respond appropriately, when the police stop it, you talk about excessive violence. Look, please, Mr. Koprivc, don't talk nonsense. Now there's something else I'd like to answer when I'm right on the phone. I think she's a colleague of yours, no, she was a client of yours, but you seem to have just taken it together because you don't read anything or read a little. The lady said that I said that the militia from that day turned into modern police. That's what you just said. You took her words. I never said that sentence. [[advertising from the hall]] No, you said, you said I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u55	It's gonna be a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u56	And that's exactly what Mrs. Sukich said. [[advertising from the hall]] That's exactly what Mrs. Sukič said. I never said that. So I'm really asking you not to say anything stupid, and if you're saying anything, make sure before you say anything that's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Please don't jump into your mouth. You'll get replicas, procedural suggestions, no problems, let's just maintain some tolerance for the interlocutors. Replica, mag. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, Mr. Hoys, you're going to have a look at the magnetogram. I didn't say you said that, but that your side was saying that. And that was said. But I said it was unacceptable for you to boast and act in ways that the police have used violence against their own people, and that excessive violence. Now, here's the other thing. About these and those protests. Sam, and I've said this more than once, I'm taking part in - and I'm proud of this - Friday's protests, which are non-violent and you're manipulating these images. I think you're the only minister defending himself with some pictures of ala Grimes, which is sad in his own way. It is unacceptable that you are peaceful protestors who have read the Constitution in the Republic's Market because they wanted to point out that this government is acting counter-constitutionally, that the police have literally dragged them into marks. That's unacceptable. This was not done by the people’s militia when you were justified or unjustifiably justified, perhaps the supporters of John Janša protested his release. I've only made this comparison. And stop mixing pears and apples. The fact is, you think that because you're in power right now, you've got all the leverage in your hands. It is unacceptable to watch you parade with a special unit on Slovenian streets during the protests. Once again, I ask Mr Grimes that you do not mix peace-loving protests, which fight against Jancism and the killing of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with violent protests. However, while we are already at the point of reading you to the Social Democrats and others in the democratic opposition to participate in these non-violent protests, I would like to point out that, among other things, Mr Grims and someone else from the SDS party participated in the meetings of the movement, the Generation of Identity, which is banned or at least undesirable in many European countries, because they are extremely nationalistic and fascist and spread dangerous ideas. Is that acceptable? It's not acceptable. Mahnič was the day when the newly appointed government of Marjana Sarca published here in this space a book that is a key issue of this movement. And that's unacceptable. This is a literal spread of Nazi ideas within this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has Luke the Moon, followed by Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm going to start by saying that I don't think you're an intelligent man. On the contrary, I think all of your unrestrained appearances, this innkeeper's twirl, manipulation and so forth are very thoughtful. Very thoughtful. And that's what you're saying today. Today you are literally acting to some extent soundly in your performance. You even thank the motioners for untrustworthyness that we have given you the opportunity to answer today and not last week, and so on. In short, below you, you show the public with your relatively mild performance for your standards today, as if everything is okay, everything is under control, no panic, everything is fine. This is what you report today with your calm performance. But, look, Mr. Hoys, your problem is that since the beginning of your term, you've been acting like someone who's been allowed everything. You've been in this position for almost a year and a half now. You said, "I am irrevocably resigning from my position." And then you mocked the Slovenian public in the face of Prime Minister Janša, who is famous for not opening the mail, even if it comes from the courts, but did not open your letter and it was forgotten. And that's your relationship. This is the attitude of the Minister of the Interior towards all customs, laws, regulations, cultures in force in Slovenia. You mock all of this, to all the citizens who follow the rules that follow some standards that have some drawback, you walk on all of this as Minister of the Interior. Last but not least, you've shown this many times how you've taken action yourself. We say that Slovenia is a rule of law, which should mean that the rules apply to everyone, including those who accept and introduce them. You introduced the rule that we should wear masks, we all wore masks, all citizens wore masks. Some were given 400 euros in fines if they did not have a mask outside, say that unfortunate deliveryman who ate burek on the stairs of the Ljubljana capital. And you calmly took off your mask in the National Assembly and said, "I can't breathe with my mask." We're all the same in this. Did you get 400 euros in fines? Did you write 400 euros in fines? No, you don't. The rules should apply to heaven, but you're acting like there's no rules for you. Like you can say, do anything, you care. That's your problem. And that is the basis of your harm, the harm done to your mandate. See, you, as Minister of the Interior, have basically two tasks: one is to take care of the police to ensure order and peace and stability in society, and the other is to care for those law enforcement agencies that are responsible for the prosecution of crime and corruption. Well, let's see what you got in your hands. You got into the hands of a functioning police apparatus in a country that counts as one of the safest in the world. For example, the capital of Ljubljana is ranked many times by various estimates even among the safest city in Europe or in the world. It's so safe to walk around here at night, so little crime we have that this town is one of the safest places in the world. You've managed to make a battlefield out of this town. I have never imagined since I was born and live in Slovenia that something like this is possible. To see in the middle of the afternoon tear gas, beatings, water cannons, street fights in the middle of Ljubljana. And that's what happened under your mandate, under your protectorate several times. And not just because there would be some protests that you can use to commit violence. This happened because of the atmosphere your government has created in this country. You have provoked the Slovenian public throughout your term as one of the government's representatives. You provoke directly with carefully targeted insults to drive people crazy. Why were there no protests three years ago or ten years ago? There are virtually never violent protests in Slovenia, except when you are in power and provoke the Slovenian public. And this time you went so far that in the middle of the day, at 5 p.m. in Ljubljana, you violently broke down the protests. Not because they would throw granite cubes or provoke anything. You did this simply because you moved from the market of the Republic to the Slovenian road. Because they went 50 meters from the corridor that you imagined them to be. And that's in a country where freedom of assembly with the Constitution is guaranteed. I wonder where we're going with this kind of relationship. You provoke first, people come to protest when they protest, they get beat up. And then we're listening, and you didn't say that, but we're listening on the side of your clientele colleagues, czech, we finally have a modern Slovenian police force. On your part, we hear the compliments of those officers you told them about a week earlier. That's how you act. That's how you act. Is that worthy of a minister? Is that what this country deserves? Is that what the citizens of this country deserve? You've been acting for a year and a half like the rules don't apply to you and you whistle at everything. We're supposed to be putting up with this. Tell us how to handle this. What if we move on to corruption and crime? You managed to practically halve your confidence in the Slovenian police in your mandate. Slovenian police were an institution entrusted to the Slovenian public by almost all. What do we see now? Around the government are people who we all know are, say, tax evasion. Rock Snow White. And we all know that he owes more than 100,000 euros to Ljubljana courts and so on. The round is driven by a 100,000-euro masseracy, paid in cash by the wife's 373 euro company, so that the court can't overturn it, his family and family own it, if I'm not mistaken, 14 houses in Slovenia and Croatia, while the prosecution doesn't know where this man lives. When Miha Kordiš told Roko Sněžič that he was a tax fraud, Snow was suing him, the prosecution dropped the lawsuit, and Snow should pay the costs incurred in doing so. I think it's $169. The D.A. went to four addresses where Rock Snow was supposed to live, left mail everywhere, and this man didn't pick it up. Thus, the man who boasts in Bosnia, "we are in power", about your government speaking in the first person, we all know that he is a friend of the Prime Minister, is so hidden in this Slovenia that we don't even know where he lives or pretend that you don't know where he lives. At the same time, you set up his friend Petra Grah Lazar as the director of the National Investigation Office, who said in Parliament that you were friends with Roc Snow. How can we trust such law enforcement authorities? Please! How? If I move forward, what's being investigated. Let me remind you of the case where the secretaries at the Ministry of Health of Alenki Forte from Trbovlje, the SDS party, painted on the front of the house a pecking cross, we received in an anonymous statement a political confession that the police, in order to find the perpetrator for tasteless graffiti, had conducted 100 hearings. 100 hearings for some piece of shit on the front. When we have millions of tax evasions - what do we get? You're crying on the highways where this man and his friend are still advertised at the head of an authority that is supposed to prosecute crime and corruption. This is your job, Mr. Hoys. These are your achievements. From the police, which was the body most trusted by citizens and citizens in Slovenia, you made a biased body that lost half of its trust in two years. But you made a joke from the National Bureau of Investigation. It's a joke. One of the principal tax collectors, a friend of the principal's, can't even find a prosecutor from the D.A. because he doesn't know where he lives. Please, what a banal republic we're becoming! Let his friend tell you where he lives because you know each other. Or let the Prime Minister tell us where he lives, because he was probably visiting him, we just haven't seen the picture yet. You've all been mocking the country and the citizens in the face for a year and a half. And that pisses me off. That's why I'm voting for your release. I don't think you're unintelligent, but I think you're corrupt, and you're demolishing everything that's been good in this country, and you're acting exactly against that beautiful conservative attitude that says if anything works, don't move it. And you're the one who's spilling the stuff that works. And the police are a fine example of this, so she lost half her trust in just two years of your term.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Moon, I'm really not going to go to this level and today I'm going to answer where someone lives. Because I don't know, you know, I don't even know who my friend is from. And that's not why I'm here to check on who's friend and everything. When you talk about the fact that this trust in the police has gone so far down, I'm wondering which public has assessed it. Or did the public who, before the elections, committed 25% or 30% of the LMŠ then get 12% in the elections? Is it possible that the public that has already targeted the Dove before he has a customer is already 10%, and your pants are shaking everywhere in case he accidentally enters politics? Or the public? Or maybe the one you're drinking with, and I don't mind you drinking with a convicted coffee tycoon? That's how you put it. You have the right to meet anyone. You're doing this in public's eyes, which I can only say hello to. I'm not hiding either. I'd go for coffee in public with anyone, I don't have any problems. So I can only congratulate you here. But don't talk about some public that's actually imaginary, which is produced by that lady who has Mediano or Damjanić, and then they scanned him with RTV, because on the day of the election, he said who would win, and then it was completely different. Not these people who are actually at work, we know who to glorify and so on. Or perhaps from that professional public who do an exclusive interview on 24 hours of POP TV, as you have just said, otherwise it was not anonymous, you always talk about some anonymous letters you receive, and there are anonymouss on Target who perform, saying, no one dares to say. But then someone finds himself saying at 24 hours, although he's already retired, that trust in the police is low, which says it's never been so bad in the police department, and he tells us who it is. Then I say let me know what this man was doing in the police department. And look at the fraction, in the end it turns out that this is the person who was being transferred, who faked things, because he wanted to distract the police or get them out of being in criminal proceedings, they even moved him to another police station. And this is now a credible public. That's not gonna work. I think it's a little overpriced. As for what you said they were investigating some pecky crosses and so on. Don't you think you need to investigate this?I thought you were against Nazism too. It seems to me that one of the essential things is that all of these things, from Nazism, fascism, communism from our society, somehow get knocked out, pulled out. I think we need to investigate this. I understand, however, that it is difficult to investigate those people there or the work of those people where your Member is, because now he is not in the Chamber, but I think it is written by Siter, organizing these protests. He was the one who came with a group of bandits or what should I call it, those who were essentially breaking through the Rippers on the day of the government's visit, and people were driving from half of Zasavje to protest there. If the police were not there, the work would probably be exactly what it was here when the cubes were thrown through the doors or windows of the National Assembly. And before that, you've talked about all of these things being kind of peaceful and kind. I don't know where to show these pictures. And I don't have any trouble showing pictures. Because of me, even if I'm the first, last, and if no minister on the interpellation shows any pictures, I don't really care. This, I'll show you again, these are your protests, your granite cubes. I've got this whole scene written down that we're going to go from minute to minute to see how this thing was going on, and it's going to be able to explain through these pictures what was actually going on at the protest and what wasn't going on. And look, now what you're saying, the protests, not the protests, and those Fridays are like that, and the middle is different, and we're just supporting them. Well, if I'm not mistaken, you went to these protests, too. I should take another look at the response to the interpolation, but I think we've listed you, at least so I have in mind that you were there, too, on Prešern's market or I don't know where. Then what is it? Is it a protest, is it a performance, or what is it now? I think it's very important that you will also if, of course, you want to answer that. What is before Parliament today - but it is a performance, but it is a cultural event, but is it a protest? You know, we have both options in the law. However, it is very important what is involved in the recovery of costs. What was before is sir, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. German spoke. So if this is a meeting, it's probably going to be harder to recover. If it's an event, it'll make it easier. In any case, it is true that I have ordered that all legal possibilities be examined to recover the costs. I see no reason for citizens to pay costs over weeks and weeks to those for whom you alone do not know who is the organiser. No, in fact, otherwise, you now claim, these are the words of Mr Bear, who is also here in the hall, you say that you formally do not know who is the organiser. And that's enough for us. It's called total abuse of legislation. Formally you don't know this because they didn't declare themselves, but we all know that he invited Jenull there, also organized, Stevanović, Ličina was very active, the Golden One, not to list them further. So, we have people who organized this. Whether they will pay or not, I, Mr Moon, do not know, is not in my jurisdiction either. That's what the court will say. And I believe you trust the court. Well, maybe in the last 14 days, you're a little less, because we can't find out if that high-level judge even has a degree. We'll see if that's true. I believe that your trust in the court in the past 14 days is less, but the court will say whether it is necessary to pay or not. I don't know. However - and I think that the Slovenian public expects this - at least try this procedure. You're talking about, like, 20,000 people. If I put it in percentages, it's a very small percentage of the whole population. I walk very much in Slovenia, and I have to say that I am getting different responses than you are selling here now. Most of the time, people were very impatient because we didn't stop the protest when they broke into the bypass. They were impatient because they said, "Well, well, why do we have this police, but you will already make order in Ljubljana, but all the fools will be made out of this country." This is what the Ljubljanaers said, those who went after the children: “Can I not go after the child now?” There were, for example, ambulances waiting outside the labor home who could not pass because these protestors closed everything down. So the responses were quite different as you put them here. After the police acted properly, I mostly got information or responses: “Well, finally, you’ve woken up! But it took you a year to wake up or something? And look, what the State's Attorney's Office will be able to draw up in these compensation claims for the reimbursement of these costs will be judged by the court. The Court will say whether it really does not know who the organiser is, the court will say whether, say, those on the right can organise a hundred or three hundred and more protests, pay all the costs themselves, and on the extreme left you will say, "Yes, we know nothing about who the organiser is." What you say is interesting is that protests always begin when the right comes to power. Yeah, it's very normal for them to start then. That's when all those midgets get scared to be cut off from their boobs. Then there is the possibility that all those who actually do nothing, but are only performing, from NGOs to NGOs, can be listed and that, however, they will live or live in democracy, where it will be necessary for you to have some income, even the right thing to do. I believe this is getting on the nerves, so they're protesting. That's why you protest or protest before the government even comes together. That's why, let's say, I think he used to be a colleague of yours, and now he prefers to be an SD client, but I don't know which is more radical if he's judged by him, then I'd say that SD is more radical than you now. We have people there who, say, hung dolls in Maribor in 2012, 2013 because they didn't like anything either. They hung dolls, threw dice, lit fires, violently wanted to break into the city parliament in Maribor and so on. [[advertising from the hall]] A municipality. Thank you, Mr. Siter. City Hall. Thank you, I said, thank you for fixing me. So they're protesting this, and I've already said this once because you have an abstinence crisis, an abstinence crisis of power. And that happens every time another option comes to power. Because you think this authority is reserved only for you after 1945. That's what they thought from 1945 to 1990. That is how they raised their successors. And these heirs, as Mr Koprivc has called himself repeatedly, these heirs think that this is so that it cannot be different. That if people elect another majority in Parliament, they should go on the road and throw the dice and burn the cops down. How nonviolent these protests were, the number of injured police officers also says. There were more of them than there were protestors. Look at him, you piece of shit! All the robes you call them are made in shields, protective devices, helmets, and so on. And more cops are eventually injured as protestors, who have nothing else but a hat on their head, maybe a shilling to not see them, and a granite cube in their hand, which, by the way, is pulled right out of the asphalt. That's why I understand that especially to the client of the Left this matter, when someone else comes into power, is very difficult to sit down because you were actually the one who kept Marjana Sharca's client up. But even Marjan Sarec found out that he couldn't go with you. Even he figured it out. After all, in such a bizarre way, he even threw a rifle into the corn, but he found that you could not be with him because you are an orthodox radical left and you cannot rule with them. I understand that you can't. I think it is right that in these debates today, as you have said, Mr Moon, we are talking more about facts, not so much about how someone perceives something. Now, I think I've given only the facts - from the cross and from that head of Mercury so on. And there's something else I could say, and I'll put this together for the next intervention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Replica, Luca Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u64	No, no, you didn't tell the facts, you were Hoys, the classic Hoys. You have shown once again how you imagine parliamentary procedures. Look, I'm not at the interpolation today. We're not talking about this today. We're talking about whether or not we're gonna get you. And you haven't responded to the obvious, you've gone along with the logic of the attack is the best defense, we're going to take a little bit out of context, show some pictures, get two slaps to the media, and two slaps to the public agencies, and one three to me over Primož Siter and some more tossing around with a little bit of radicality. And we are, and it's all done, and we're all responsible for everything else, just not you. That's how it works with you. We've been used to it since we've been watching you for two years. I know guys like that, you won't believe it, from elementary school. And let's face it, I didn't go to elementary school there in the 1930s and then I was responsible for everything. Because if I let you talk for another five minutes, you'd be out there by 1945 on charges of what I did at the time. That's kind of how you guys just left. It's all our fault. The Left is in power all the time when it's not in power. We have an abstinence crisis, as you said. Please! I believe that you are creating a bubble where it is believed, but for everyone else, Mr Hojs, and you are not only a minister within the SDS universe, you are a minister in Slovenia where not only voters are SDS. And even with us, even though I know you don't want to talk about what you've shown again, you also need to talk to us and you need to hear something. But it's because you're not ready to hear anything because for you every criticism is an attack that has to be beaten back by a burner and shown who's to blame - except for you, which is why you're not fit for the minister and you'll never be. Everything you've just said, you've only consolidated my belief that you should never have these functions because you're not mature enough for it. Not because you wouldn't be intelligent, but because you're not mature.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Before I give the word forward, I would just like to ask you to read the clause on the replica and to discuss and also replicate it in a replica, without it being anything other than what is a replica. Mag. Marko Koprivc, do you have a replica? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, Mr. Hoys, these are always the same impressions you're really bored with. As Luke said before me, I think that maybe this circle, the Esdeesian circle of people who are minimal, is in some way inspired by you, but otherwise you believe that most citizens and citizens really don't care all the time about the same subject, all the time returning to the woods, all the time returning to 1945 and all the time you're trying to get at me, you're quoting one and the same statement about proud heirs. I'd like to tell you one thing first, Mr. Hoys. If anyone in the National Assembly or in all national politics was a Communist, this is your President, Janez Janša. He was an active communist, an active member of the Communist Union, a radical member of the Communist Union. When he saw that things wouldn't go as he wanted, he turned away, and today he's spitting on these communists. Now there's something else about my statement. I have indeed declared that we can take pride in many things of that time, especially anti-fascism, which you also call anti-fascist. And I think we can be proud of this period. But I said this statement in the context of the time when your colleagues tried to equate fascism with socialist self-government. And that's unchangeable. Therefore, Mr Hojs, I can tell you that in the future I will also go out with my comrades and comrades to worship, as you say, before Boris Kidric, who was a great anti-fascist and the first President of the Slovenian National Government after the war. I am also proud that, during this dark time, women have been given the right to vote, to live in a spirit of solidarity and equality, to increase social rights. But I am certainly not proud of the repressive methods of conduct, the methods of conduct that are similar to your methods of conduct, not ours. I repeat, we have nothing more to do with this. We're too young. I went to elementary school when there was a transition to another social order. So it's funny and abominable that you keep coming back to the fact that you can't say anything else, like we're heirs to communists, that we're radicals, and I don't know what we don't know about being in opposition. You better see what you've actually managed to do from the Republic of Slovenia in a good year and a half: what chaos, confusion, how you break the foundations of the constitutionality of our Republic. It's unacceptable and unacceptable. And plebiscite will be said by citizens and citizens not in April.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Look, I'm warning everyone from now on that you're going to replicate that you have a replication of the Rules of Procedure, not a debate. It's a rule-of-law replica. Don't call it a replica if it's a debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade German, please refrain from any stupid comments. We continue the debate. Blaž Pavlin has the word and will be discussed by the Magi. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u68	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister Alesh Hoys, hello! Interior Minister Aleš Hojs has been a thorn in the 5th opposition since he was not yet a candidate for minister. And your right, the right of the opposition is to file an interpellation against the minister. Soon after your appointment, even at the time of the declared epidemic in 2020, you requested the references of a number of meetings of internal affairs committees, public administrations and local governments, where ministers were accused of being torturers for illegal, unconstitutional and other unacceptable measures, which, at the time of the epidemic, in your opinion were restricting the freedom of citizens and citizens. You continued to do the same this year. Today's interpretation, signed by the members of the Left, LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members, gives Prime Minister Hojs the primary responsibility for creating state-of-the-art emergencies, and there is always evidence of the adoption of government measures or decisions that the government wants to combat the epidemic. Today, it has already been said that a similar outbreak of the covida-19 epidemic started with the previous government. This year's Constitutional Court has indeed ruled that the government's 2020 decrees restricting the movement and assembly of the population are unconstitutional, since the government had too many powers and too few guardians. In this regard, it is also worth recalling the difficulty of the time in which these decrees were in force. It is no coincidence that the Constitutional Court annulled the ruling only after the worst part of the epidemic had passed. When it was the worst, it was probably such a decision, and with that responsibility no one would dare to take. In his separate opinion, the former President of the Constitutional Court, Dr Rajko Knez, also raised this issue. Allow me to quote him at this point: “If the Constitutional Court were to decide on the constitutionality of such regulations at the time of their entry into force, only because the legislator inadmissibly abandoned the regulation of the substantive legal framework to restrict freedom of movement or the right of assembly would not annul them. The immediate repeal would result in the termination of any appropriate, necessary and more proportionate restrictions on the two human rights which pursued the constitutionally permissible objective of protecting human health and life. The immediate repeal of such rules would also lead to the failure of the State to comply with its positive obligations to prevent the spread of communicable diseases at the level of legal regulation, which could result in irreparable adverse consequences for these constitutional goods, which would lead to an even more unconstitutional situation.” Decisions are, therefore, and still protect people's lives and health. The 5 October protests, as some had done before, were unreported. The organisers were not officially known, but were well organised. Protesters used granite cubes, took some roads, and threatened people's lives, and the police responded. Since they were not reported, the police took on the role of organiser, who is responsible for the health and life of both protestors and other citizens. Protesters prevented citizens from leaving work, parents of children in kindergartens, and urgent patients from accessing emergency first aid. One of these protests was even attacked by journalists and protestors also invaded the highway ring around Ljubljana. It was similar at the October 5th meeting. Police have previously made a security assessment that this is a high-risk event. This is the day that a high international event took place in Slovenia. On 5 October, the police adapted measures and the provision of public order, human security and property, and the security of police-protected facilities. There is always evidence that the Minister or State Secretaries have directed activities on the ground and have dictated the start and manner of the use of coercive funds. I find this very difficult to believe because, in my opinion, for which there were also witnesses on the commission of inquiry, they were present at the head of security at a time when most of the police activities had already been completed. Since the protest itself in early October, opposition parties have been reading the police's excessive use of force. The above findings were rejected by the five-member police expert commission. The Commission concludes that the police have properly prepared themselves for the meeting, that the measures have been stepped up in proportion to the exacerbation of the situation on the ground and that the police have used coercive measures legally and professionally. It is true, however, that the expert commission also pointed out in the report that there are some shortcomings in the functioning of the police during this protest. I find it unacceptable that the position which is generally known in Slovenia is that a good minister is only a minister who does nothing. And if nothing works, it has media and political peace in Slovenia. As I know Minister Hojs, he is not one of those politicians, but he wants to change things through a change of law, as he thinks it is right. This seems legitimate to me, and I call on the opposition to try to admit that if there is political will in Parliament, certain things change accordingly. There is also constant evidence that the minister wants to subordinate himself to the police with the instructions and guidelines given to him by law. But I have a feeling that, above all, it is the fear of some in the opposition that they or they will lose their influence on the police. As a Member and a citizen, I certainly want to know if the police have in all cases acted in accordance with the law and the police profession. I also expect the police to ensure respect for public order and peace and to ensure the lives and health of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, which I think the police are doing well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, and after him will discuss Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greeting, Minister! Messengers and Messengers, too! For the introduction itself, before I come to my debate, I have to respond to the current course of activity, but I do not want to communicate or dispute with the debaters in any way, but I think that certain things, if not otherwise, are clearly certain because of us and the public. First of all. The population movement on public surfaces is practically determined. The fact is that both meetings and any other forms must be reported if they take place on public surfaces. Either this should be done at the police station or in front of administrative units. I think that's what all members of the National Assembly and the general public know. So far, as has been seen by the Minister in relation to individual points, it is simple as if this does not exist. Unfortunately, in political rhetoric, he succinctly avoids anything that is even more important. And what has been unusual in this debate so far is, and I will only read a few paragraphs. “We are in the middle of a moral crisis. Minister Alesh Hoys kidnapped Slovenia. An organized attack on human rights. Citizens want better governance of the country. Government chaos, violence, corruption. The Social Democrats are ready to take power. Break the foundations of the plebiscite decision.” What is this other than a pre-election meeting? It is true that we are four months before the elections, but we are today in the National Assembly. I believe that someone else may be watching TV 3, today's broadcast, but it's not meant to. It is not intended for a pre-election meeting of individuals, if I may call it, of groups of Members who advocate some of their legitimate political beliefs. But we are today at the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior. So it's a total abuse. I have to touch here, because there was also some way of speaking between individuals and the minister, an intervention at the NPU. I must say the following very firmly. What did the NPU do about the 5 billion-dollar bank hole of state banks in the Republic of Slovenia? What did he do about TER 6? What did he do with a billion-dollar Iranian money laundering? What has he also done in public through research journalists in the field of economic and other crime? I don't want to keep talking. Just so much in the context. But I have to touch a tiny touch on that opening sentence, which was said at least by the proponents in the introductory words, czech, yes, because these meetings, which were and which the police responded to, are not illegal. That's interesting. This means that in this political debate we are serving an unwritten rule, which is not prohibited, is permitted. But, Your Honor, even in political rhetoric, it must be said that this is more to justify known lawyers in criminal matters. So the fact is that in these undeclared or reported procedures, which should be, we do know some kind of criminal procedure. And for this reason, the reference to not being illegal and similar, I think it is only in the interest of my own belief that certain movements on public surfaces are allowed to everyone and everyone to achieve some political domination. And that's not right. Meetings should simply be announced. Why? In order to ensure the safety of both participants participating in these meetings and of the rest of the population. It is essential in these procedures that the institution responsible also make a so-called risk assessment. At the same time, there must also be a so-called rescue team if anything happens, because it is an integral part. They can also be peaceful, but we know that there is still a need for a rescue vehicle in the midst of a wide variety of participants. But apparently it's not that much of a problem. The problem is to avoid the responsibility of the holder or the organiser, because in the proposed meeting plan, the institution must ensure security and, as a matter of key importance, take full responsibility as regards the process itself or the process. Given that these meetings are not being reported, I think this is a kind of abuse, but today in political debate they are citing or referring to democratic rights. As far as the proposal for this interpretation on the work of the Minister for Home Affairs is concerned, I must admit that at these seven points I have no intention of going down because I can say that I would simply be running out of time. However, I will touch on point 1: creating an emergency situation in the country through the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its ministers. On the two sides of the reasoning of this point, when a person reads them in detail, he feels that, on the basis of this point, we should discuss the interpretation of the government rather than the Minister of Home Affairs. What's unusual is that whoever wrote this kind of point obviously simply ran out of material to justify the need for this point of interpolation and even referred to an online portal - and I'm going to do a little commercials - Uncensored. And we know who's behind the uncensored web portal. When a person reads such a part of the justification, he feels that this is a call from the Commission to oversee public finances, but not such an important legal instrument of interpolation. Finally, I must admit in this part, given that the proposaler has also touched the words of chaos several times today. The chaos is mentioned three times in this first point. I will not let go of what chaos means by the dictionary of the Slovenian language, because I think we are so visible that we are aware of what it means. Is the Republic of Slovenia really a mess? I think it's kind of insulting to say that words like that are used according to the current state of affairs. It is true, as I mentioned earlier, that this political rhetoric in the National Assembly has been allowed virtually every word or every word spoken. And if I am in chaos, how can someone write this if the Republic of Slovenia is in good economic growth today, that we have very good employment, that I will not say that we have significantly better social assistance than in the past periods and so on. I must admit that it is unusual to use words in such important documents that simply express a complete lack of reality or that distorting the facts to the public is merely a politically desirable performance in this interpretation. So you criticize me on my side of this part. For what is still written in this part, it is also necessary to make a statement and therefore to read the next sentence. They conclude in this paragraph with the following words: “We would need authority that enjoys respect and trust.” I must admit that I will be very interested in monitoring if any of the authors of such cases are in this National Assembly, because they represent the legislative, executive and judicial branch of power in the Republic of Slovenia. However, this means that the applicants are simply aware that in the field, if I understand the criticism of the current executive branch, we are also aware that we have no respect and confidence in this legislature. But why? Apparently, there is so much rhetoric and polarization in this national council that the public can't imagine otherwise, and here I agree with you – but who is helping? Here we can ask each other, or any group of Members. What I'm particularly pleased with is that you're also critical of the judicial branch of power. Most likely, we will talk about this on the parental committees that are still ahead of us. However, I am pleased that you are extremely critical as the proponents and believe that something needs to be changed in the judiciary as well, or perhaps you have a significant change in your mind. Now, in the rest of my debate, I will somehow focus on the Ministry of the Interior or Minister Aleš Hojs. Is Minister Hojs, Minister of the Interior, a better or worse Minister of the Interior than former Minister Poklukar? I will not give this answer here immediately, but it will follow from my debate and I will end in the end. In the performance of the political function of the Minister of the Interior, who is one of the most important national resources in each country, including in the Republic of Slovenia, it is still important that he performs this function. I believe that, first of all, it must be in line with the powers of the Ministry in the role of ensuring and creating conditions for the functioning of this State-making body, with an approach that is very active, I can even say that it is desirable to be proactive. Although this activity exposes itself to professions, police unions, the public, various stakeholders and, as we are witnessing today, political opponents, and in a way that individual stakeholders do not agree with, its management approach is unexpected and perhaps even unfavourable to many. In other words, the approach that allows for improvement in most cases of proposed changes understands the change in the existing modus operandi mainly in ensuring the security of the State, people and property, while also ensuring the relatively good material position of the Ministry of Interior and also working conditions. I will not touch the other powers of the Ministry, as these debates are not to be expected. One of the important activities of the Ministry of the Interior is also the administrative and internal affairs, but I assume that, despite individual concerns on the Home Committee, more or less everyone is aware that such activities are only for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. My assessment of the work of the Minister of the Interior so far is good. The confirmation of this assessment also demonstrates the official position of the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, who, two weeks ago at a press conference, made clear the praise of the work of the Minister for the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, today's Interpeller, Aleš Hojs, during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Council. In particular, it highlighted its very important work and activity in the field of European common internal affairs policy. And what can I conclude from this? That this is today's political reality when, abroad, the Minister of the Interior is praised by the Commissioner for Home Affairs, and in the National Assembly, the opposition is constantly building and building on almost every step. This is said to be the case that the opposition in the National Assembly cannot be so political as to face reality and recognises to the Minister that changes are needed in the existing department in order to make it more effective in its mission. Why is it that, in the area of prosecution of perpetrators of crime and organised crime and economic crime, things have not been improved for many years for the benefit of citizens, creditors, victims, but even in repulsive cases, perpetrators avoid persecution or things go into obsolescence or remission? Let me not be offended by the well-respected proponents of this interpretation, obviously you still want to maintain an insufficiently effective prosecution of socially harmful abuses, and therefore Minister Hojs is in this part having a criticism practically for any change. Unfortunately, the well-respected opposition, in this case, is my humble opinion that you are wrong. Therefore today, personally speaking, I can think of the content of this interpretation as being more on the side of those who abuse their positions of personal benefit or the benefits of those who have provided them in the past. Therefore, it is also difficult to understand on the internal affairs committees individual debates that oppose any changes, amendments to ensure better organisation of police work in the field of effective prosecution of various abuses or greater security of people and property. Even if I try to understand the role of the opposition, at times, I must admit, this is difficult to understand. I can conclude by asking an introductory question. I conclude that you would like to have a person in the position of Minister of the Interior who would be indecisive in his work and with a flimsy political backbone that would in various ways adapt to individual interests - here I have to point out - especially to non-governmental activists. I believe that today's opposition is not acceptable to a person with a clear and firm word who seeks to propose and make certain changes in the national resource, all with a view to ensuring the safety of people and property and greater efficiency in the prosecution of harmful deviant acts in the country. And for the end of the sentence. This interpellation, in my humble opinion, is just a demonstration of the weakness of the opposition in its assessment of how the Minister of the Interior should act on this important country-specific political function. But from everything I've said, maybe there's something else, but time limits me, I can only say that I can't support this interpretation with such content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. She'll be discussed by Boris Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u72	If I start where my colleague ended up in front of me, at the state-of-the-art department. I can agree that the Ministry of the Interior is one of the most important ministries, but unfortunately it is a long way from the state-of-the-art at the time of this government. Earlier, I could say that there is something quite opposite, some kind of resort to disrupting the inner peace of citizens and citizens. Let's start where the interpolation begins: in ruling with the decrees and in the word chaos that has been exposed. I also think that this country is not in chaos, but at the same time, I think that government is in chaos. In the chaos of the decision-making process, in chaos and current inspiration, it takes decisions, consults experts in chaos, sits at night sessions, publishes decisions that enter into force immediately or even backward. The profession, which hopes to say something and raise its voice, publicly criticizes, concentrates all levers with these decrees in just and only one branch of power and completely disregards the legislator, the government authoritarianly, violently, the decisions it adopts fall as dominoes in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is very clear on why these decisions have fallen, how they should be taken, where they should be the basis for action, and how they should be verified. And then the minister in his well-known manner, because he can, with some deliberate deception, not be mistaken, because the minister knows exactly what he is doing, he also discredits the decisions of the Constitutional Court and he explains to us, especially to the camera how this Constitutional Court is unreasonable, he insists on the government to take decisions every seven days. Of course, the Constitutional Court did not say that, and the Minister knows that very well. The Constitutional Court, for the first time, said that such measures were not adopted by decrees because it was necessary to have a basis in law. And, secondly, it has said that whatever is taken by decree, if these are cove measures, it is necessary to verify them after seven days that there are still reasons why they were adopted, how they function, whether they are still proportionate, and then decide whether they will still apply. No one, nor the Constitutional Court, has told this government that it must not take measures by prescribing them, accepting them for a longer period of time, explaining them professionally and politically and explaining to citizens and citizens why, how and when. This is not what the Constitutional Court has said, nor has it ordered the government to take decisions for seven days, as the Minister now wishes to present. Of course, the minister knows exactly what he's talking about. He can speak very skillfully, so I also assume that in the company of his colleagues, he is always chosen for the purpose of essentially defending any subject, any content. He doesn't even need any professional arguments for that, because he turns things around every time with his skilled rhetoric, because he can. And that's what he's doing today. When a colleague warned my colleagues before me that we are interviewing the Minister today, but that colleagues are using their discussions, especially that of a fellow Koprivac, I think it would be good to remind the Minister who answers our findings in a way that discredits and attacks the individual Member, the party, draws out everything he knows about someone and so on. Once again, we are not at the interpretation today, nor are the Members, nor are the parties. You're on the interpellation, Minister, because I think you deserve it, too. You have already earned what you are showing here today in the National Assembly with your communication, in your way, by still claiming that you have done everything right, that you have adopted all the decisions and would once again. Probably even sharper if it were your way. If I move on. This communication is the one that is extremely problematic because it causes a lot of things back. The way you take it, you bet with some expressions of all people, employees, police, trade unions, independent state authorities, from the information officer to the Ombudsman of Human Rights, the judiciary, the media, I'm going to have a hard time covering everyone who, in your own tweets, in your advertisements, is, of course, unacceptable. To use words such as pearls, pigs, sloths and mussels in the place of the head of the national resource that is no longer in place, and what you are doing, should refer to anyone, but this enrollment, which I have listed, is something that is not appropriate for a minister in any government and in no country and under no circumstances. But this communication is, of course, a typical way of operating this government, a typical way of showing what you think of all of us. And that's problematic. Any such record, any such statement rekindles responses, triggers anger, provokes resentment, also triggers an increase in this type of communication. And increasing this kind of communication then leads to action. But these actions can be observed every day for the past few months. And these are the actions that I think you actually like, given how you react to them and what you do. And they probably even fit you. I agree that each meeting must be declared in accordance with legislation, as far as possible, in accordance with legislation. I couldn't agree more. As I agree that when there are accidents, the police must be the one who takes matters into his own hands, protects people and property, and ensure that there is no destruction, that there is no further violence. I am also absolutely in favour of the fact that if people are trying to break into a roadblock at a meeting, they are stopping traffic so the police have to intervene. But these aren't the things we read. Why? Because on October 5th, none of this happened. None of that. I was alone in this house on October 5th, and I was leaving this house just as the protesters arrived from the Slovenian road past Maximarket and were moving towards the government building. These protestors were not very many, and they were calm. How do I know? Because I went out to look. Why did I go out and look? Because at the main entrance to the National Assembly, the police stopped me and advised me to leave the building through the Congress Square or through the Republic Square, I now quote, “because they are about to throw the tear gas.” What does that tell you? This was at a time when you were in the police operational headquarters, when, in my firm opinion, because otherwise you didn't know how to act, you were putting pressure on the police. However, the result was that the protestors simply moved from the Slovenian roads to the government building in a calm and not large number, but that “we will now drop the tear gas”. That's what happened. That tear gas wasn't too small and it wasn't just here. He was all over town. And that's what's wrong. That's what's wrong. 400 rounds of tear gas on a non-excessive crowd, much smaller than it was a week ago, and all over the city. Internal controls have also found that the tear gas was released to places where there were no humans at all. So what was the purpose? Show power, show that you can, show that we know. I gave that building away at the back entrance, but even when I came around, people were calm, and there weren't so many. The only thing they did was walk quietly towards the government building. And the cops didn't decide to do that because at some point the incident started or there was violence, but they had already announced in advance that they were going to do it. That's what convinced me that you didn't go to the task force to just watch. And it's also very convenient that one week earlier when there was no such violence, you compared the police with the lazy, the week when there was violence, and you went to congratulate them. Is this worth the Minister of the Interior? Is this worth any minister? I must say, along with Minister Dikaucic and Simoniti, these two are my favorite, you really make a pretty tripper baby. But it is true that you are much more performing, you are much more visible, and, as we say, you are also answering other topics that are not directly in your department. I'm not going to go any further in some detail, because what I'm talking about is enough for me to be sure that this interpolation, the second one against you, is justified. As has been said before, and I strongly agree with this, you are not stupid, on the contrary, you are very intelligent and you know exactly what and how, and then you turn your words, you attack back. Now, of course, you're going to show some pictures, some photographs, the question is, since when have they been, the question is, where and when have they been taken, they've been saying it. Of course, when you put a tear gas on someone, that person reacts to understand each other. She's absolutely reacting, even though she walked peacefully for five minutes before. Throughout the history of Slovenia, we know when protests took place when the conventions took place, in order to make a difference. There's no other way. I really have to say, all thanks to the police, but no police in this world can handle the pressures or even your instructions, or even a handful of your client colleagues who are taking a daily step against them and giving them some guidance or just conveying their opinions to them if you say that these instructions are not, and so on. In order to support these decisions, because of the things that have been in these decrees and are still, in order to find a shortcut and not accept the legal basis for taking measures in the Law on Infectious Diseases, but again to search for a circuit in the PKP, because of the pressure on the police, because of the staff exchange, the staff clearance to call it that - and it is certainly a clean slate if you abandon the Director and then follow as many as three conducts as possible, while the first director to dismiss him in court reaches that the court is saying that the discharge was illegal and so on - due to inadequate communication, the level of this communication, the underestimation of citizens and citizens, the disrespect of the highest legislative body, the disrespect of judges, the contempt of the media, other than their own, you deserve this interpretation. And that is why you deserve to be talked about today for 17 hours about you and all these jobs. We would also deserve 46 people to press "for" at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Slug already predicted that I would show some pictures. Of course I will, because I need them. I would warn the lady next, but I think that I have said this three times already today, but even though we have already explained this several times, she said again that at the moment she stepped out of the National Assembly, what someone said to her there, I don't know, I allow anyone to have said that at that point I was at the OKC. Look, Mrs. Servant, I was at the moment when you, at least if those hours are what you said they were, I think you were at the airport in Budapest, if I'm not mistaken. I went back to Slovenia around, I think, 5 o'clock or so. In fact, not in OKC, because in OKC I was not even on this day, but I was on CVZ, this is the Centre for the Protection of Persons, the ones most competent for adequately protecting the high authorities who were here in Slovenia. I wasn't at OKC this day at all, so I'd ask you to stop already - but I don't know if I'm saying they're lies, I'm expressing myself badly, whether it's possible to say it or not, or whether I'm going to say it's gonna be better to hear that communication is more appropriate - with these untruths. This is the second time I've explained. Not a week before, not two weeks before, I didn't talk, not a month before, never talked about cops being lazy or snotty. I repeat what I said earlier today. I used to refer to the police unionists, top of the police unionists. And here you also need to know what's sooner, chicken or egg. Most of the time, though, my own statements respond to what someone says or what someone reports. So in this case, I responded when the unionists said that police officers or those of the Centre for the Protection of Objects and Persons here in front of the National Assembly did not respond adequately to the protection of you, Members, when you left Parliament, because this was the fault of the police leadership. Look, police unionists who, as I said, have been doing nothing but unionism for years now, when the police don't react, tweet that it's the police's fault. I don't know what else to write, but for God's sake, they're already doing these lazy people at the top of a police union. It was the same thing with the creeps. To talk about the fact that I've labeled the police as bums, I think that, if I'm not mistaken, even with Mr. Baković – yes, we were, here, Mr. Baković is, at the studio of Planets or somewhere else, on one television where I choked on the fact that the unionists were not prepared on the basis of a meeting that we had with the unionists, with both unions, I asked both unions to call the police to be vaccinated. Not because I'd like to intimidate anyone, but because I've estimated that the call of both unions in this direction would be very welcome so that the police's interception could be significantly higher if union confidants contributed. They didn't. They're not because they're political. Because they didn't mean that more police officers would be pinched, that society would be healthier, that fewer people would die, and so on. They're not. They went to politics. They said that in principle they were for vaccination. “The three of us have been vaccinated,” they said. This is similar to Jankovic, who comes on television at any time, says that everyone in the City Hall is vaccinated or something, and all his executives are vaccinated. After all this is over, a week ago, the esteemed mayor said that he would make the law so that everyone would have to be vaccinated. He used to be half quiet for a year. No, no, he answered when it was necessary to say, and he spoke internally when he needed money from the government and said how well that government was doing. But when he got the money, he suddenly came to see how this government sucked, how it did nothing, how that government made people unscathed, and so on. Look, this interest of mine was in communication with the unions to call the cops to get a vaccine. Look, Mrs. Servant, I never said we didn't make any mistakes and we were infallible. I'm sure we've done a lot of them. We've done a lot of them. But once again, if we go through this again and we have to decide whether we will give the National Assembly a decision to adopt a new law that the National Assembly has not adopted for months, or whether we will adopt a decision that will protect people, which will reduce the number of dead, which will improve the epidemiological situation, which will ultimately contribute to the survival of the health system, and that many individuals will survive in doing so, I am sure that they will once again decide to adopt such a decree. And once again, at the outset, I said, the most controversial decision in my field, most of the decisions were not from my field, most of the decisions were from the health field, I had those rulings that were bound to the restriction of movement and to the border crossing, that decree I showed today several times in the introduction, for that decree the Constitutional Court found that it was in conformity with the Constitution. It has not been annulled, even more, it has found that the restriction on the movement we have written in the decree has been consistent with the Constitution. As far as what you've said is concerned, the Constitutional Court should not require that we do this for seven days. Look, I have the exact chronology here. The initiative to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality was followed by A. B., C., represented by Finzinger, o.p., d. o. o., we don't know who the instigator is. But we know who gave it. It says that in the remainder of the proposal, until the final decision of the Constitutional Court, certain points are retained, some are rejected and so on. The decision referred to in point 2 of the sentence of the decision shall be carried out in such a way that the Government shall, without delay after the notification of this Decision and shall then, on the basis of an opinion of the section, verify whether the relevant measures are still necessary or not and publish this in the Official Journal or report it to the public. That it will be absolutely true that everything for the public will also be exactly what we actually had. We had written, for example, that certain activities should be carried out and that this decree applies to cancellations. The Constitutional Court said: “No, it can’t be that way. You must write down the decree only for seven days, in seven days you must check it on the basis of the profession, the NIJ and so on, decide again and republish the decree. And that's what we've been doing for over a year now. It is certainly not true that the Constitutional Court would not require that. That's exactly what it required. It even demanded that if one thing is published on the Internet, either on ministerial pages or on government pages and so forth, it should be published in the Official Journal, which, by the way, no one reads, but must be published there, regardless of the fact that people have been informed through the media, press conferences. Now, about these pictures, what you've been predicting. Look, these are pictures of that day in Celovska. That's Celovska. I think it was about 6:30 a.m. there, I was monitoring it in my office at DSU. The imaginary pattern was exactly the same as it was last week: make a scene, make as many things broken as possible, after Celovská get to the curb, maybe there also close the traffic again so that, in fact, these statesmen even from Brda could not get back to the hotel. And of course the police stopped it. This is, for example, a crowd heading for Celovška towards the bypass, somewhere around 18.40, 18.35. That's a long way from keeping those protests quiet. They could have been calm at the beginning, maybe some of them who called, then, if I say badly, fled, I think they found a gentleman who provoked the whole thing, in Aleia, Šiška, where he drank cold coffee. So he cares about all the other ten grand he's been causing to work banditry here, and he's been smashing the streets of Ljubljana, and he's sitting around drinking coffee and he's acting like he doesn't know anything at night. So the pattern was exactly the same, and it makes sense that the police had to react the way they did. Now, since I'm speaking, I might be able to tell you exactly how the unionists, as I said, were being treated by lazy people and also by mussels. Unionists, once again. Look, gentlemen, this is especially for Mr Levice, and for Mr German. You only told part of the story. You have only told part of the story what the law says, but of course it is necessary to realize what is written in the law, to adopt certain rules or certain sub-laws. They're demanding that the unions and I agree on what they're going to do. Are they going to do their union work or not going to do it professionally? The unionists have not decided, at least until today not to do their job professionally, so I would warn you from this place, given that I know that at least the SD party the other union – what is it? – You are instructing or properly instructing the SPS, warning that, as far as they can communicate, I would really ask them to report as soon as possible if they decide to do it professionally, because they are now doing nothing else, they are now doing 100% of the work in union work. But that doesn't mean they do it professionally. That's the law. However, if they do this professionally, there will be a need to pay back about two salaries that they have received over the past year. Why? Because if someone is doing this professionally, which you claim to be, they do not claim it, even more than I said at the outset, they sent me a letter a day ago proposing that we agree to do their work at 75% of the union work, and not professionally - watch out, why? — because if they do this professionally, they do not have all the supplements belonging to police officers who exercise their powers. Therefore, be very careful with these allegations that they do so professionally. If we find out that they were actually doing this professionally, then they'll pay back those unwarranted amounts. However, there is no further problem of doing this even 100% professionally, provided, as I said, that part of those costs will be covered from their membership fee and not from the taxpayer's money. As Minister myself, I am willing to pay, as stated in the collective agreement, perhaps a little more than half, this was agreed by my predecessors with them that this option is over 50%, well, 51, for example, or 55%, that it will not look like someone is deliberately messing with someone. However, if they do this professionally, in this case they will no longer receive all the supplements that belong to them. I ask that you actually try to talk about the facts and not just what may be stated in one article of the law, but when all relevant sub-laws or corresponding agreements with trade unions usually resulting from collective agreements are still needed under that article of the law. I must say that the existing collective agreement of such an arrangement, as is currently being implemented by trade unions, including the two presidents of trade unions, does not provide for. There is no argument for me either that I heard last week, of course the argument came from both unions, when all the years we have done so was never a problem. Maybe. But things need to be arranged in a way that will be legally stable, not end up when we go maybe, as some say, even a little war, we find that things don't stand. This is similar to what I have been informed this morning by one of the Members who said that the director of the police administration, I think it is the director who has been retired for quite some time now, that he is from Nova Gorica, that Mr German will know better, that at the last event on Friday all the assembly said that events such as today end because from now on the police orchestra will not be allowed to play such events. Perfect notorious lie. Now I don't know who suggested this to him, who told him, or maybe he can't read the law. In this law you have adopted here, we have merely described how these things will be realized. However, it will be achieved that the Northern veteran organisation, the veteran police organisation, will not be the one who will give the command to the police director. The veteran organization will not be the one who picks up the phone and will say, "Listen to Lois, and I need a work car today, so I can drive without knowing where." And this veteran organization won't pick up the phone and say they need it in a petechorkester to play at their event. It's not gonna work that way anymore. That's right. It will go as agreed or provided for in the Defence Act, where we have been in contact with all veteran organisations for several years now. Exactly what these veteran organizations get from the military. They know exactly what these veteran organizations are paying for. And it is well known that these veteran organisations are being prepared in some way to benefit state resources. I see no reason for the Northern veteran organization to be in any other privileged position towards the other organisations. And, finally, look, it's really strange that this same veteran organization, at the same time as the media is mucking me, but well, it's not such a problem when it's pissing off the whole government when it's talking about some autocracy and so on, at the same time, it doesn't have the slightest moral reservation to call and say, "Today I need a car." Or that he should call and say, "On Saturday, prepare for me an orchestra." And that is exactly what we wanted, and that is what we have enacted or you have legislated as Members, that there will also be some procedures, some clear transparent procedures, where the use of the orchestra, the car, the spaces, all that is available to veteran organisations, will be given, but not by the fact that it will be the one or the president of this veteran organization who will command things in the police.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u75	Reploco has Mrs. Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u76	You know, Minister, the unionists aren't being intertwined today. And I know that you know that, and I know that you also know that what you're saying about everything else now, when you say pictures, is just to "pass the time," that we're going to blur a little bit, that it's going to be 17 hours, that we're going to talk about everything else, except what we're talking about today, and that's your interpretation. And in a similar way, you reinterpreted what I said. When I said that I had been informed from the mouth of the police officers that I should not go to the market now because they were going to tear gas, I wanted to point out, no matter which one of them said this to me, I wanted to point out that they had agreed in advance that it had been agreed that no matter how the protest was going on, they would do it. That was the point, and I know you know that. That was the point. So it's a peaceful protest. Even if you were in that moment, even though you denied yourself and said first that you were not knowing where, then you said you were in your office and showing pictures, of course not from that day, as I had correctly predicted, but from another day. And even if you weren't in the police operations headquarters at the time, you've already said that you were too many times before, and probably later. This has also been said by your co-workers from the Ministry, including your party colleagues, including those party colleagues who are employed in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. And these are constant pressures on police work and nothing but that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u78	Madam Servant, if you will allow me, look, because I did not dispute with you or answer you in the sense that what you said, when you left the office, or how you got out, or what the police told you. I didn't even talk about it. I focused on the part when you said that at the same time, you said that I was at the OKC. Let's listen to the magnetogram, you may not know what you're saying, but that's exactly what you said. I told you that at that point I was not at OKC because I was at one of the European airports. When I showed this picture, listen to the magnetogram, I knew exactly what you were going to say, so I told you when I was sitting in the office watching it through Topnews. I said 6:30. But I was in my office at 6:30. And it is certainly not true to give any instructions or information or to order anyone. You know, this almost reminds me, as I think Mr German said, or even wrote somewhere that I am in one form or another still present in the OCC. Look, this is really funny. That's amazing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Proposer Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u80	Minister, with all due respect, I believe, in your words, that you dream of me at night. Because you're making up your dreams here today, and you're saying things that aren't real, and in this world they don't exist. I never said that, and please stop pushing and dyeing every time I speak. 'Cause that's a little rude. Above all, this constant instigation of your words, because we all know, proven repeatedly in Parliament and other institutions, that you are a liar. There's no doubt about that. That's proven. Please let yourself be framed in your performances and do not instill things that no one has ever said, and you just kind of feel that you have to say this to strengthen your own ego. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I see you, Mrs. Boxman. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u82	President, I ask you kindly to remind the debaters of decent conduct. We can say that an act or word is a lie because we think so, even though we have no evidence. But we can't label someone as a liar. Mr. Hojs is an honorable person, so far you can't tell him anything like that, and you can't even tell him anything less. And I ask you to remind all the debaters of the dignity of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I will not interfere with the values of the individual Members from this place where I am. We can all read the definition of what is, a liar, in the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language. I estimate that this is a valuable judgment handed down by Mr German. I'm not going to interfere with this and put the word in his mouth. But it is a fact that everyone feels as offended or hurt as the truth is. Mr. German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u84	Just for a little while. Dear Boxer, I have never allowed myself to judge your performances, but believe me, I am behind this. I've done it again and again and again and again. Mrs Škrynjar, we have often found the Minister lying, not only in Parliament, but also in the media and also in the competent institutions. So let's be realistic. I can express myself in the way I think, given the weight of the words spoken, so lies, by the visible representative of power in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm not talking about anyone, I'm talking about the Minister of the Interior, what I've said, with full responsibility. And we can dissect and prove it every single time. But we've done this a number of times, and I don't know why I would waste my time trying to prove to you that the Minister of the Interior is a liar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. He's got magic in his hands. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u86	Very briefly. Madam President, I also advise you to take into your hands the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language and consider the difference between concepts of a valuable judgment, for example, if someone says that and that is not true, and an insult. She's a pain in the ass if you call someone a liar. And Mr. German has offended. That was a pity. Therefore, I ask that you give him a reminder in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u87	Yeah, mag. Grims, before I replied to Mrs Škrynjarova because I anticipated what her procedural proposal would open up on the Internet, Fran, said the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary, was joking about "the liar". Under this slogan, he says: "He who lies: I do not believe him, a liar." I have assessed that Minister Hojs, Mr German, did not believe what he said in his debate, and he called him a liar. This is a valuable judgment for me, because he just gave some valuable assessment of the words spoken by the minister. Now, if you allow us to continue with the debate, because it really doesn't make any sense, because we can ping-ponge all day, who's a liar and who isn't. One for one, the other for the other. So I suggest we move on. The text was first requested by the proposer. [[advertising from the hall]] And before that, she has a word, procedurally, Mrs. Skrinjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Look, here's another procedural proposal. I had a procedural proposal, and you answered it. Then you allowed Mr German to come down to the debate with me. I'm sorry that this is so because I haven't had a chance to talk and I can't even replicate it, so I think it's inappropriate. Of course, I will remember this about the value judgment in other cases when you may be using different vats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shriner, two explanations. I always use the same vats for everyone in my leadership. On your part too, such or other valuable judgements are flying, including a liar on your part, from your colleagues, by your parliamentary party SDS, and I never warn you, nor give them warnings or take away their words. So much for the vats, I have the same for everyone. As for Mr German's debate, as you know, I hope you know who is proposing today, among them is Mr German, and he has been given the floor as a proposer. Like all the others who are waiting for the debate, you too will get your time and then you will be able to answer everything you want. There's nothing out of the ordinary, and it's not like I don't know what kind of precedent it is if the proposer gets the word when he wants it. It's always the case and the rules of procedure. So let's get it right if we do. Before receiving the floor, Mr Minister, Mr Nik Prebil has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It seems to me that a few things need to be complemented and clarified before continuing with regard to what the Minister and some colleagues have said. Minister, when you talk about unions, that they're mushy and lazy, it might make sense to warn you, but I know that you know very well that the union is made up of 8,000 police officers and police officers, which means that all these people are mean to you mushy and lazy. So perhaps from this point of view it would make sense to take a little bite into words, because I don't know why we're going down to this level, nor do I think it's decent for someone in your office to write such things either on Twitter or even less that they're kind of nice under the table here and with a little bit of different tone moving on to Members and Members. In this house, Minister, you are a guest and in this way it is kind of desirable that you perform in this hall as well. Even when you say that you can write on Twitter in your free time as a citizen of anything, let me warn you, Minister, that you are 24 hours a day minister and you do not have your free time. And you write every time you tweet, even indirectly as a minister. As the Prime Minister always writes as Prime Minister, not as someone, because he is the Prime Minister, just as you are the Minister of the Interior. Your words have a certain weight in the public and therefore cause a minor storm when you insult or insult someone or humiliate the courts and judges and others. So at this level, I'm not going down with you because I kind of don't like this discourse and I don't want to go to your field. You've also spoken before, Minister, about what we're doing in matters related to Minister Visiak, who directly concerns you in one part, and then there's something about the Minister of Justice, that these two ministers have already received the support of the National Assembly. I don't think it's necessary to reiterate that these two ministers, and one that has been intertwined now in a short time, have received only and only the support of the SDS party, and no one else but merely. The votes were always more to be resolved than those against it. It is true, however, that with the law, the Minister must receive 46 votes for the resolution, and this is the majority of the National Assembly. So not everything is as pink as you show and I ask you kindly not to deceive the public or the National Assembly in your performance. It is clear, and this colleague Slug also told you that you are the ones who are being intertwined, not the Member and Members of Parliament, nor the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The fact that you now say that you would have no problem ignoring the law and the constitution, of course under the thesis “we have saved lives”, as we have seen before with Minister Restovalsk, because of the fact that he had no other defence, is in fact a disregard for the Constitution and the procedure for adopting legislation, which only shows your disrespect for this institution and practically also for people. Any matter adopted by decree can only be temporary and temporary, since things must then go through the National Assembly. It's just these things, Minister, that things fall on you in the Constitutional Court. And after you say that the Constitutional Court has not touched your content, that there is nothing wrong with the content, yes, of course there is nothing wrong with the content, because the Constitutional Court has rejected your rulings before the content has come to light because it has detected a serious violation of the relevant procedure. And that's the problem that we're talking about all the time, that you and the whole government are somehow thinking that you're above everything, and that's what you're doing with the police. That's what you're turning into service to yourself, customer service, and all the alarms are actually ringing. There's just one more thing about those unions that I thought of right now. Both police unions are very much against you and the director of the police this time because of a number of political pressures. They inform you that you do not enjoy your trust or enjoy it in public and that there is no longer a sense of impartiality in running the police, which causes the police irreparable harm. That's what they're saying now, Minister, both unions, even though we all know here that one of these two unions has been very strong on your side in the past. Something may have happened that your own people were starting to oppose you. Let us not forget that three directors had to be replaced with the NPU, two of which were yours before the one who was obedient and heeded your orders or orders from the Director-General of Police came. Perhaps, however, I would like, the honourable President, as well as colleagues and colleagues, to return to the topic and to the obvious, which are very clearly and strictly explained in the interpretation. But we will, Minister, then we will come up with things that have already been highlighted by the investigative commission and clearly demonstrate your political responsibility for political interference with the entire police instrument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. You want a word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you. If I answer your question, why do we keep going back to these things? Because you ask them all the time. Look, you guys talk about these lazy people all the time. I have explained this four times today, and every time you, Mrs Slug, don't know who, you say you have to answer. It has to be explained. With regard to what you're saying about the Constitutional Court, let me tell you one last case: a PC in the police department and a state administration. It's just the opposite, as you say. The Constitutional Court has found that there is nothing wrong with this only that the law must be written. Now I'm asking you when we're going to pass the UNB law, a fellow opposition you've been blocking for months. And now let the government wait for you to wake up and accept something, and people will die. I just said I'd do the same, I'd do the same thing if we didn't have a vaccine and stuff. And that seems the only thing normal to me. The virus doesn't know what the law or the decree says. Whoever's lying there in the hospital doesn't care where it says anything. He wants to know if he's going to survive, and health care is going to cure him. The one who's not sick yet. He's not going to get sick. This government has done everything in this spirit, to minimize human illness, to keep as many people healthy as possible and to keep the health system as low as possible. But I will conclude with this, and I would not be burdened so much, thanks to both Mojica and the Vice-President, who rightly told how and what this meeting is leading. But with Mr. German's statements, I'm not burdened. He has already marked me as an Ustasha, and I was a fascist, and he sent me from this country, and now I'm a liar, look, all of this has been proven, except for this last one, but I'm also going to be the last part where he talked about how I was present in one or another form at the OKC and I'm going to publish it. Just like I published everything on Pop TV when he told me to just move out of this country, and when he said I supported the uprising and so on. So with Mr. German, I really don't burden myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mr. German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u94	I'm going to avoid, Minister, clearing each other up, just to clarify one thing. I never said you were a fascist. I never said you were a Nazi. The only thing you've said about what you've said now is that the truth is, I said you're sympathetic to fascism. That was Thompson's story. Everything else, Your Honor, is a lie again. As has already been said, Mrs Škrinjar, when proven a lie to someone, is a liar and there is no other definition. And that's it. This is no offence, but according to the SSKJ this is the definition of an individual according to his or her performance or actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Boris Doblekar has the floor, Mr Jani Möderndorfer is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. When we somehow initially put this interpolation fairly normal in positions, and then something else, well, then these interferences and dissections of each party separately began, how they think, what members they have, how many votes they get in elections, how many minorities they don't even have here and so on. The matter has broken down and we're where we were in the previous or previous interpolation. This thing that you call interpolation is no longer interpolation, because looking for hair in an egg is called waxing and not interpolation. What you are doing and when people are watching this – do you know what the wife of the candidate for MP of the LMŠ party wrote on Facebook? I will quote, she wrote: “Interpellations spoil all the misery, lowliness and perversion of Slovenian politicians. Bruham.’ That's what she wrote, and it's flying at everything. Not just on us or on you, just on everything. In the end, of course, they write comments, if you, all politicians are the same and so on. Yeah, normally, one really scary thing about who rules us and so on. Yeah, but you asked for an interpolation, not us. Let's make a deal with each other, and ask yourself what you're doing. If there are no arguments, if this becomes some kind of sublime debate, the nagging of MPs elected by people, liars, fascists, neo-Nazis and where do you live? [[…]] How can you not be ashamed? And that's what people watch, kids, young people watch it. Then it's the same on the road. The protests that started on the first day or before the government came together, the protests started, and now, it's all based on these protests and the first lies that you threw out, that the government raised their salaries and the Members, and today I'm listening to your lies and the beatings on the road, and on Facebook, and I don't know where you lied, your media, from the creamy to these influential people, have taken it night and day, 24 hours a day. And that's what's holding up. It's a lie. It just has to be repeated a hundred times. And it must also be known that the lie is the immortal soul of communism, the respected heirs when you are right in the face of lies. Don't talk to me in the middle. Minister Hoys, Minister Hoys, who has done more for this police than any other left-wing government since you ruled since 1945, when you exhausted the army and the police and destroyed it to the end, just enough to survive. It is very interesting that on the side of the Left, the KUL, it is amazing how you raise unionists, not unionists, or unionists, but only unionists. Interesting, isn't it? One or two unionists, that's for you, I don't know what, saints. But the cops you're talking about, and you're always just talking, you're protesting, and we're being beaten, and we're being trampled by these cops. The police worked there, they worked, they froze, they were hot, they suffered, and millions of euros of damage were done by these protestors in Slovenia. That's not what you're talking about. Who's going to pay these millions? You don't say anything about that. You don't care. Minister Hojs provided the police with better working conditions, better protective equipment, better vehicles, and a highway police were established. For the police, this minister has done a great deal. And you keep looking for some hair in your egg, all the time, all the time, all the time, you don't even know what to do. Of course, this debate from those few points of yours — from protests, decrees, and the recruitment of trade unions — is completely divorced, as we turn each one to the other. I wouldn't be discussing it like that right now, but I would be touching those exactly if I hadn't listened to such a discussion by the predecessors. Let's stick to the subject. If you're already challenging the minister or you're insulting us on this side, then you need to be aware that you're also going to get control. That's what you need to know. But then you're back against what we're telling you. I don't know if that makes any sense or not. When I listened from Mr German to Mrs Slug, what an enemy rhetoric is this, a disaster in the Slovenian Parliament. And the processing of the parties and each Member in particular, how he votes on which side he fits. What do you care?Oh, my God! Take an interest in yourself, don't keep going into other people. And you keep referring to the statements of some left-wing media, dependent media, even national dependent media, and we listen to it all the time, and you read those nebulos from newspapers that don't do anything other than fight people. In the client of the proud successors of the Communist Union, we know exactly what you say, what a journalist is, you know yourself, what you call a journalist in the SD party, that a journalist is a sociopolitical worker who is consciously subject to the ideas of Marxism and Leninism. Yes, of course, and then you keep referring to them. But they're not all like that, thank God, and luckily they're not all like that. Before this government started working, we read articles in Youth entitled The Beginning of the End of the Government of Janez Janša and three questions. She hasn't started working yet. Please! The same was true of these protests, which then increased. And you say it's the people that people are always at these protests. They are, but not everyone. Precisely defined, precisely profiled, and from non-governmental members of your customers, including you, and from Mr. Koprivec to Tanja Fajon to all those who encouraged and participated in the protests. As far as the police are concerned, I've already said that you were trying to destroy her completely. Then you keep referring to this 9th section of the Act, which was activated. The Minister has already explained to you 100 times why it was that it was then the top of Europe and that the various organisers who had not yet been punished for it had called out protests. You've heard this 10 times and you'll probably ask 10 more times. And before this, article 9 of the Law on the Work and Powers of the Police was activated when they wanted to organize rallying truth and similar nonsense in Slovenia by former South or Serbian activists. Then you worshiped Ertle on all the miles higher and heavier and rewarded him. In fact, this rally prevented the Union of Engineers of Slovenia, which strongly said that Serbian rallyers would not drive to Slovenia and Ljubljana from Cankar's home, as was said at the time. Don't forget that! At the time, there was nothing wrong with this article being activated, even though the police had virtually no work at the time. I think it would be much better if these 17 hours, which we are going to throw away here in Parliament today, could be spent on something else, much more useful. You keep forgetting, we go to Parliament with masks, and you forget that we are at the time of the epidemic, that people have problems, that people need to be helped. And you keep writing with decrees, and you keep saying that a hundred thousand times. The Constitutional Court helps you, as much as possible, and nicely abolishes anything that is acceptable. The whole of Europe regulated the situation in the epidemic by decrees. All of Europe, ladies and gentlemen! You can't make laws overnight. You can see you're punching at tens of tables and you're smashing and destroying property in the National Assembly, and you're pounding on women, and you're insulting them who run the sessions. You see, you don't like working for ten hours. Then how are you going to take this as a decision? Or with a marriage coming around in two months, or what? I don't know what they want. I can only say that we can all be happy together that we have such a minister, that he works so well, that he leads the good Ministry of the Interior, that we have a good director-general of the police. And it's a great honor to all the cops and the cops, the director and the minister, and I hope that the unions are smart as well. When the former Prime Minister went to their congress and was with them, no one therefore called for any interpretation. I'd like to say a lot more, but my time has passed, my 10 minutes. I don't think I'm going to support you after your interpretations, but I'm afraid I'm not going to back you up. Of course, you're running out of votes again, and we're gonna throw a nice happy party these 17 hours. Finally, I just want to keep working successfully for the Minister. All Slovenes and Slovenes, I smell happy holidays, a day of independence and unity, Christmas, a new year and all good. So we can beat this virus as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u97	The text was wanted by the proposer, Dr. Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you, Vice President. Imagine a scene in the classroom of a kindergarten, there you have about a group of 20 kids and one of them does something, punches him a little and steals his shovel, and then he starts acting a little ugly. And then the other one comes along and that's what's causing the tutor. Then the tutor comes and says that the one who stole the shovel then says one, no, he's the first and then he starts pointing at Mark, starts pointing at Juret, starts pointing at Tade, at, I don't know, Masha, at Marjanca and so on. [[…]] And then in the end, that tutor doesn't know what to do. This is how the Slovenian Democratic Party behaves. Every time one happens, I won't use a human word anymore, some ingenuity, some scandal, immediately starting to point my fingers here, left, right, up, down. Now we've heard, the Constitutional Court, the opposition, the people on the streets, the media, the journalists, this and this party, that party, the information officer, and the Ombudsman, I don't know who else they're gonna pull out of their hands. They're all guilty, they're all working against the Slovenian Democratic Party when it's in the government, and the government. Would you once rise from this position and look from the outside at this situation? And who believes you? These litanys over and over and over and over again. For 30 years, you've been yaming about wdbomafi, about the deep state, about the doves, the dogs. It's pure paranoia. Let's see what you're doing, add one plus one and you'll get the result. It's your own fault that you're creating such a situation. Once again, people don't go to protest because they think the Priories would be nice, that just when you come to the government, they go to protest. No, based on past experience, based on what you've been doing for two years. If people hear daily about the controversial financing of a party's own media, the corruption acquisition of protective equipment at the time of the epidemic, when they should save lives. Today, Minister Hojs has said how many times, at the expense of people's lives and safety etc., etc. The whole of Europe is ruled by decrees. Where? In Austria, as far as I understand, they're making laws about these things. Even in Italy. No normal European country is ruled by decree. I understand the first three months, that's what the Constitutional Court has told you, the decisions are taken, only then, at some point, the laws begin to be passed slowly. The government sends laws to Parliament. The whole of Europe rules with decrees - no, you rule with decrees because you don't do otherwise because you know well that if you came with these things that had nothing to do with the epidemic and it was most of the time literally messing with people in this country: opening, closing, one, one, one, two, two, two almost at the time of the closing of the congregations. Who would accept that? Mr Hoys said that Parliament should adopt the UNB. No parliamentary group in the National Assembly has sufficient apparatus, especially epidemiologists and similar experts, to prepare a law such as the UNB. You tried. You came to the National Assembly, you saw that no one would back you up from your partners in Desus, and so on, then you raised your hands. Minister Poklukar then walked up and down the parliamentary groups a little and found that the second attempt was not appropriate. And he left the thing to rot. He said, okay, we tried, that's it. Now civil society has written a law that is acceptable or to a large extent good and that is how we will adopt it. But this should be your responsibility. But let's leave. It's not the U.N.B. for Hoys, because it's primarily for the Minister of Health. But once again, for the situation that we have in Slovenia today, after lost trucks, after paper service masks, after flying planes, after purchases of golf fans, we should be audios and so on, you are guilty of this situation and no one else. And the fact that most newspapers report on these matters does not mean that they do not love you, but it does mean that you are doing something seriously wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u100	Look, Mr Vatovec, I'm just going to say a few words that are not paranoia for me. Well, I don't know. 30 million written-off loans to Mr Jankovic and his family companies, this is not paranoia. Delete hearings where someone asks for a return in exchange for arranging his job, sex service. That's not paranoia for me. I don't know, it could be for you. The parallel mechanism of this country, which Dr. Rado Pezdir described nicely on, I think, hundreds of pages, is not paranoia for me either. The prices of the investments I have been talking about, which are more expensive in Ljubljana than in Germany, of course I am talking about a unit of measure. After one population unit, say the cleaning plant Ljubljana will be more expensive than it is in Germany. That's not paranoia for me. One offer where the investor considers that the value of the contract can be EUR 20 million and finally signs a contract with the contractor, the only contractor worth EUR 40 million, is not paranoia for me either. If all this is paranoia for you, then I really don't know where we live. But it's really interesting to say first, I think that these tests or whatever they were, with some tests there was something wrong with our members, then you said that they weren't our members, just that they were sympathizers, cryptomillionaires and so on. When the police investigate this – what is it now? Is that right or wrong? I think it's right. Of course it's okay. But I think it's right to investigate everything I've previously counted. We don't hear anything about that. Except today in your newspapers or on your media website, you're going to be telling me how I'm going to determine who the police are going to investigate. Yes, please! Please! How am I supposed to determine that? The police will investigate those who, after her assessment, committed a crime. It is interesting, but it is interesting that in all these years nothing has actually happened with all the topics that I previously counted, including Ljubljana. From the Slovenian FBI, the NPU, when Katarina Kresal founded it, by the way, the FBI is basically not part of the Ministry of the Interior, but is part of the Ministry of Justice in America, so I would say here that things don't count that you keep saying. And as has already been said today, this famous FBI has not in all these years brought a single thing to a close. The debate that the Member had, Mr Verbic, in his initial debate, you were able to hear exactly what the Slovenian FBI, under the terms of course, the NPU did not do. And look, all this isn't paranoia for me. All of this shows to me that things in this country are not going as well as they should, that everyone before the law is the same, that the police are investigating everything from a to a. So, from those of you who sold paper masks to those who build a cleaning plant with factor 2 compared to Germany. We should actually do all of this. And when that happens, I'm just working on that once it is, I don't think we'd talk about that sort of thing here. As long as we are talking only about how ours or yours are, and what I have said is that you have an abstinence crisis from an authority you no longer have this year and a half, or those three years, four years or five years together, which you have not had in the thirties, I understand that this pain is very great.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by the proposaler Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u102	Minister, with what you're listing, I agree. Look, if Mr Jankovic is doing odd things, absolutely explore. I have no sympathy for Mayor Jankovic, let the police do what he has to do, and all the investigative authorities. But when you push so much about these botts and so on, why forget: Deupala vas — outdated; Patria — obsolete; Trenta — what is going on? Illegally acquired property, Volvo cash, apartments in the center of Ljubljana. Nobody's talking about it. That's on your side and it's untouchable. This is again the fault of the udbomafia, the doves, the dogs, the Yankovics and so on. And that's the problem. Look, from this point of view, as far as I'm concerned, what Janša or Jankovic are doing is the same because of me. As long as the policy is used to take advantage of itself, I do not care whether Jankovic does it or not Janša does it. But not unilaterally then cover just one side and point the finger at the other. And we saw exactly this at Visionary's. Petan and Vizjak, when they were sitting together and they were machining how to harm the country, had no connection to being one of the LDS and the other of the SDS. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u104	Look, Mr. Vatovec, we're absolutely on the same line here. Only with the difference that you have now listed things that have been processed. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, but is that my fault? We must have a trial. Look, there's Mr. Maslesha, who we don't even know if he's got a degree, but we don't know if he's got an exam. But now it's my fault that we don't know if Mr. Maslesha has a degree and an expert exam and that things are out of date? Look, it's not my fault. Even more. I've said many times that the police, the D.A., should lead things to a judicial branch so well that it wouldn't be a problem in evidence, in that suspicions are backed up and so on. Trenta, as I know, it's working. It's being investigated, because prosecutors are taking things forward. Have the same vats. Have the same vats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. One more time, Dr. Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u106	I have the same vats, you don't have them. You're making a bet with Maslesha. What do I have to do with Maslesha? What do I care? As far as I know, they've put Mr. Persh on the line a number of times. It was delivered. But I'm not gonna deal with it. I think it's also a matter for law enforcement. You're using these produced affairs to deal with me, with Levica. We're in an abstinence crisis. From what? [[advertising from the hall]] From what authority? [[Laugh]] And that's the problem. You're trying to produce some truth that doesn't exist. That's why I think Matjaž is right. You're a liar. You've been producing lies all the time because you're using them as some kind of means of discrediting your opponents. This is clear as the purest Murano glass. But do you believe, do you really believe that someone outside of your Twitter universe believes you or that they fall for these things? That's a great tactic. You attack and shake this sulphur all around just to hide your stuff. And that's what I initially said. We are fighting about these things today, in fact, nebulosis, while I think we should seriously discuss how, let's say, the company that you were the director of before you became Minister, Nova 24, was financed from abroad. And this same media house actually financed your party's campaign. This is illegal financing from abroad. It's like that. It's like a ton. Of course, we are now fighting around the back of the shadow, and in fact the big ones, forgive the expression, and the pigs you've been doing all the time, they're still kind of hidden from your eyes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. I must say that after a long time I have heard Mr Doblekar and that such depressed debates have long been no, I apologize, but until now I thought that there was at least one who was seriously preparing for the debate, but what such a thing I did not expect. But okay, because we're basically allowed to do everything, and who I am to judge, actually. Who am I? Today we are at the interpretation of Mr Pearl's Minister, as if he were calling himself. In fact, some of you find that he is extremely bright, giving him some fine qualities. But in fact, if we've noticed, there's actually nothing else he's been doing all day, just giving some labels and valuable judgments about individuals. Here and there he suggests a certain argument and that famous old saying in communication, which was actually started in the Old South of Serbia, when they started showing pictures. This has become popular on the side where we show pictures, thinking that we will all see and believe what is actually being done on them. I must say, in fact, I find that it is good that there is Zoran Jankovic, that there is still a number of others to be hanged and redirected to the story and not least attention. You know that I am not exactly in the best of relationships, but I do not understand why a particular project should now be assessed, by the way, I am alone to examine it, to examine why not, absolutely, but I do not know why Mr Hojs is now assessing what is worth and what is worth. As far as I am aware, you have been no longer working in this area for several years, and I doubt that you are monitoring prices, and the fact is that if we go away from this project to other projects, we will find very quickly that the prices of apartments, when they are published on the call, in regular sales, in commercial sales, are changed three times by the end of the day when they are sold, and they are more. In May, apartments were published in our village in Montenegro, where they were offered 250, only three months later they were offered for 320, the same square, and later for 30,000 more expensive. But by the way, the village isn't even built yet, just so you can understand what I'm talking about. Things didn't grow by 10 to 25%, but more. And they'll be teasing. But look at the fraction, it's interesting why Mr. Hojs doesn't talk about a project called the Cukarna, where mining work was done and the project was incredibly expensive. Why isn't he talking about it? Why isn't he talking about Križanka, where the roof is being renovated for the third time? Since the state did not give its consent to fix this roof, the country encouraged this roof twice. Don't talk about it. Of course, Minister, in fact, I apologize, this is not a minister at all, Mr Hojs, he does not really know what is going on at the Ministry of Education and is forgiven here, but he can get involved in certain projects. Comrade Vatovec said today that we will not talk about the UNB, because this is not a matter for the Minister of the Interior. But don't mind me, he mentioned the U.N.B. three times today. He referred to him three times. So I don't know why we shouldn't talk about the U.N.B. Because she's talking, by the way, my fellow boxer isn't here because she's telling lies. And it's constant, it keeps repeating them. Says the following sentence: “In the National Assembly you do not want to adopt the UNB, the Law on Infectious Diseases.” No, Mr. Hojs, in the National Assembly, the SDS, together with New Slovenia, passed the Law on Infectious Diseases and voted against it. You're not gonna believe this. We've all been looking at what's going on. Your coalition has broken your law, which has been proposed by the Government to the National Assembly, and for almost three quarters of years you have been repeating to all media the Slovenian public how the National Assembly does not want to accept it. The government does not have a majority in the National Assembly and cannot adopt this law. He can't. You know why? Because he's incredibly unconstitutional, whenever you suggest him. Anytime. You're writing things in there that, by some normal logic, can't go through. And then boast that you are saving people's lives – I see that this will be your new election motto – and do not tell you how many of them died needlessly because of your mistakes, because of your untimely action, that I do not say how New Slovenia boasts about its best minister of work, family and social affairs, and that the most people there have died because of his lack of action, the inappropriate action. So much for what and who wants to do something in the National Assembly. I have to say, given the accusations and the eyewitnesses I've heard today, how essentially the union is the main culprit for everything, and then, what's the worst part, this union has the appearance of its botres, they're instructural. You know that, you have it all clearly recorded and so on. But you don't tell me how many police officers have left work. Cops, I'm not talking about unionists. I happen to be sitting in a bar 14 days ago at an interview with a man who was introduced by a friend as an ex-cop. And I ask him, "Really, haven't you been in the police for many years?" And he said, "Two months I haven't." I asked him: “Why?” And he said to me, "You know, since I know you're a Member, I'm going to tell you, because I've been going through this ever since this minister got here, since we've had this political police. I've been an economic crime criminal for 21 years. I'm sick of what they've done to this police force. Vomiting. There are only directives and orders to do what we can and cannot do anymore. And I went. And I didn't go to any security office, to some sort of similar place where I'd have knowledge as a police officer." No, he does iron. A man, a police officer who has invested 21 years of knowledge, practice and not least in a lot of jobs, eventually deals with iron. This is also your responsibility, including your first police officer, Dr. Olai, who's constantly explaining that he's been hurt. Dr. Olai, I read it last time in the paper. From what and how? By practically coming from your cabinet as the secretary of state, which is an extremely political function, to the professional work of the police, and we are to trust him to work as an active professional police officer. I'm sorry, I don't believe it. I can't believe it. Why not? Because he used to serve as Secretary of State when we listened to him here on the Committee on Internal Affairs, as he clampedrated. It's just political pamphlets. And that's the expert officer. You're saying that in previous governments, they've been giving guidance and mandatory instructions, and you're adapting it to interpretation and so on. I don't see anything wrong with those directions. In the final stage, no dilemma. But you know, one difference is drastic. As they have suggested or as you do today, there is a fundamental difference. It's a substantial difference. And bragging about how Minister Poklukar had done something before, and I don't know what else, if you do, I pulled it out of the drawer, because that's what the previous government wanted. I don't know if that's exactly how they predicted it. You know how many times I have warned here that when the law changes, there is also a need to have sub-laws prepared, not least by the rules of procedure. And I keep telling you that. Under Article 8b of the Rules of Procedure of the Government, when adopting legislation, you must have prepared drafts of sub-legislative acts which will give rise to this. Did you have them? Really? Then why do you scream and keep saying and insisting that by 15 December they have to make the rules, but if you already have it all ready? [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Hoys, you'll get your word. Just calm down. I'm very calm. Okay. Is everything okay? Okay. Let's move forward. The measures yourself, as you have stated and adapted them, when they have been adopted, and then you give orders as if we do not know what Mr Aleš Šabeder, then Minister of Health, has adopted in the previous government. Yeah, yeah, it's true. Certain measures have been introduced on the basis of these provisions. But there is one thing you do not say: for the first time, that there was another law on infectious diseases, which you later changed, and more importantly, that you yourself have decided that you have transferred something to the government, that the government will now decide something together. If you feel that this act unties you and increases the legality of a decision, you are mistaken. The Constitutional Court has made this very clear: there is no problem of restricting human rights when it comes to emergencies. The problem is that you have to take such action with the relevant authorities and, most importantly, with the relevant acts, which must be proportionate and, more importantly, temporary. And he can't do it every time. And you're even more. In today’s performance, you make it very clear that at the cost of human life, once again, we would accept a peaceful soul’s decisions on the current tape only at the cost of being able to save human lives. As I said before, I've explained how many of them you've been saving. But I can say another thing that seems very important to me. What you do not constantly understand here is that I will speak very much in the concept, Mr Hojs, because you say that you are dealing with content and that only content is important to you. Well, I'll tell you, democracy is always made up of two key conditions, these are content and form. If there is no one or another, there are no more democratic procedures, but all of this must be done in an extremely legal way, or say very easily, so that we can all understand, legally. And with you, the law has disappeared from the moment you forget about the form, or you haven't forgotten it, you don't want it, you don't care, you miss it, and that's why it's extremely dangerous for society. If you can do it, why in God's name can't others do it? And you refer to human life. No one would deny that you would fight with your actions to protect human life. But the Constitutional Court and the two Presidents of the Constitutional Court in the past, one recently, one half year ago, before the holidays, made it very clear that you had enough time in one year and a half to make things right. And you look at them – and this is now my claim – you don't want to settle because this situation suits you. It suits you that the law on infectious diseases is not passed so that you can do what you want and what you want with your decisions. Will it go to the Constitutional Court? Of course it'll work, but it'll take a while before this is over. But you will be on behalf, as he said, if you remember, Mr Pirnat, that even if there is an illegal decision when it is adopted, it will be valid for as long as it is not repealed. And that's your practice and logic of conduct. But, Mr. Hoys, this is illegal. We've all learned that now. What's more, we've got 10 PKP ahead of us. You're already proposing a request to ban the referendum, but there's no epidemic, there's no emergency, there's no war situation because you don't want it. Let's declare an epidemic, there's no problem, and you'll be able to do a lot of things. What you say is for the cost of living, for the cost of protecting people. Or as you said very nicely in your hearing, I quote that there will be no mistake, and I will quote the entire sentence so that it will not be torn out of context: “Criters often say that this country is not what we fought for, what we wanted. And it is this candidacy, I am also taking up the candidacy for the Minister of Home Affairs, from this point of view, that I may make another contribution to the country's becoming a real state and that what I actually believe is what we all want to do in this country." Now I'm asking you what order. Is this your turn? Is that a legal order for you? I'm sorry, it's no order. It's a complete anarchy. And worst of all, people really don't know what's right or wrong anymore. Ask the average citizen what's going on today. He doesn't know, he doesn't know, he has no idea. And the saddest thing is, she doesn't even want to know what she's holding and what she's not. For whose sake? Yours, too. Yours, too, and very much yours. At first, people no longer knew who the Minister of Health was, or you or the predecessor of Poklukarja, because you were more on television in connection with the epidemic than you were with the Minister of Health. Nowhere in Europe and around the world have domestic ministers performed as much as you. Because it suits you, as you said in the hearing, the value of security, order, discipline and hierarchy, which you then also broken down in the hearing itself, i.e. the hearing for the candidate for the minister, where you explained how the matter must work or how it will work. And I must say, you haven't given up that much. Today you also said the following thing. You said vehemently: “Shall I tell you what investigations will be done? Am I going to order this?" Yes, of course, Mr. Hojs, we got you with your pants down when you were giving clear instructions on what needs to be examined, how these investigations are ongoing or what you already said, and correct me, as you are going to advertise, but I will give them to you: for Banka Slovenije 2012, for Pro Plus in advertising, auctions by NLB bankers on Farrokh matters, in purchasing cords, irregularities in heart surgery. In short, that's when you gave clear guidance on what to do. You know what you said about that? That you're doing it today, too. So no one believes what is true and what is not, even though at times you act very convincingly. But no one believes you anymore. When you show up on TV, it's a shame. Sometimes it's less, you know. Not the other way around. It's smaller. And with you, this is an exclusive case that works. The next thing I wanted to say was the NPU. It is very interesting, for example, when we remember how the NPU was formed and what we were talking about at the time, when the NPU was very important as some kind of new organisational element that will help the police solve serious, worse criminal acts and will therefore have special means and a particular organisational form to be able to detect and deal independently with these difficult cases. Something similar was done in 1908 in the United States, where they established the so-called Federal Bureau of Investigation. Believe it or not, why am I mentioning this? I'm referring mainly to one reason. Can't you hear it or what? [[advertising from the hall]] Vice President, he's got a problem. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u109	I suggest you don't communicate with the minister directly. You'll wait for him to respond to the microphone and it'll be heard. Now, just keep talking, it'll be easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Vice President. You're right. That's a good cry. At that time, they did so for a reason that they would facilitate work and that they would indeed reduce or, above all, increase investigations into worse crimes. Why am I even mentioning this unfortunate FBI? Because it wasn't an affair because there wasn't a mistake, was there? Of course they did. But they didn't come to their senses to reduce the FBI's function and subjugate it and put it in nothing or in a malten one organizational unit of one department within the criminal service. On the contrary. Today the FBI has a budget of 8.1 billion to do this. Of course, compared to our system, this is not even a comparison. But given the number of people and GDP, I doubt if they could say that they have such a budget. Moreover, they will now have much less or will not, they cannot be that independent, because you simply destroy it in this system with one simple goal that it will not come to the ugly deeds of those who must remain untouchable. Who am I talking about here? Yeah, including your boss. For everyone else, I will say, important politicians or economists, who may be involved in one way or another, because I cannot accuse them, but it can be a certain suspicion of them and of course it is problematic. Today he mentioned his colleague Grims and he made it clear that we are all responsible in the opposition to the violence that has taken place at the demonstrations, that we are responsible because we are under-split, in short, we are the ones who have done it and we are responsible for it. How many times must be repeated — colleague Doblekar today stated that the lie is repeated for as long as it does not become real. Comrade Grimes is a master at this, you know, Comrade Doblekar. It's like so many times, it's the same mantra that we run away. Why am I bringing this up? First of all, because the repression that happened under your leadership, you know, I'm going to say it now, just like you've developed a theory about how it was all instructural and all planned in advance, and now I'm going to develop a little theory. And I have a feeling it's your toy and you're playing a little game. But that you're literally playing with each other. Put Mr. Olai on as the director of the police, who is your instrument, because you can only give guidance. But with Mr. Olai, because he used to be your secretary of state, you can actually pick up the phone or on some program or even personally, as if you were playing on a joystick at home in the living room, you're playing a little toy and say, "Let go of the tear gas, close the road there, redirect them there, give it to me, give it to me, give it to me, give it to me, give it to me! I will show them the wind what they say!" Of course, it's a theory that you won't be looking so seriously. About as much as you're developing a theory of who did anything to you. But one thing is clear as day. The people who were there and who were monitoring it saw that in the 1930 ’ s they saw the police with the worst violence against the civilian population. And it's completely unnecessary. Experts working in this area have already commented publicly and have repeatedly said that certain police steps have been unnecessary, disproportionate and, above all, counterproductive in terms of efficiency. More importantly, your research, the internal research, has shown a kind of inconsistencies that you've been throwing tear gas where there were no humans at all. Excuse me, who, if not responsible or competent minister, is not responsible for such work. First, objectively responsible, in some cases even subjective. But it's a theory again. In normal democratic societies, a minister who has such irregularities would simply give up on his own. But you don't. Why not? Because you can't back out anyway. When you first resigned, you resigned so that no one else knew why. It'll look interesting. That's what's gonna happen after you're off this job. But then, sooner or later, all the stuff comes in. It'll be interesting to hear why you offered your resignation so quickly. One theory is, you've probably heard it before that you got caught up in earrings. And you know it. That's why the director of that office resigned immediately because he knew the story was over. Look at the fraction, and then there's a kind of pressure or funny story that doesn't even understand a primary school kid about not opening an envelope, if that's what you've published on social networks and you've seen what the Prime Minister actually got. In the mockery of society. That's what I'm talking about. Comrade Doblekar, this is what we're talking about. It's a mockery of society. When you were talking about all of us making fun of each other and then people think that they can do the same. Yes, Comrade Doblekar, look what he's doing. Don't tell us that, just point the headlights there for once. And that's the problem with our society. The policy made mistakes, you said about your government. Of course there are, we used to do them in the past. Definitely. Our predecessors who sat here for sure. But, you know, I know a lot of cases when they dropped out because of the banal stuff and left. I will not forget my colleague Peter Wilfan, who was involved in a car accident under the suspicion that he was under the influence of alcohol. He wasn't. And yet, he gave up. Still, he gave up. And you, in all these jobs, with all these insights, you're pretty sure you're doing good. You know, in fact, to be honest, there's no longer a problem with you. The problem is with the first man in the government to make it possible. That's where the problem comes in. Why the interpolation? We have to make it, whether we have enough votes or not. We are obliged to do so because we are expected by the Slovenian public. Unless, of course, you have the right to defend yourself and respond to the obvious. Therefore, a respected coalition, do not tell us whether or not interpolation is necessary. This is an instrument of opposition that we must do already in order to allow you to tell your salary, which you have been repeating for some time today. I'm gonna finish up with one thing, and I started at the beginning, which is called, it's good that you have Zoran Jankovic. You're talking about how he didn't pick up for a year. And he told you at the interview on Sunday why he didn't call. He told you. He told you that he had picked up Janez Janša's phone and made it clear to him that he was the Prime Minister and that one was in charge. Mr. Hoys, you're so funny. Like a five-year-old. I told you this was your toy. It's like you're home. I hope you're not doing this at home. In short, when he called Mr Janez Janša, he told him that we were all monitoring that he was leading and that he expected the government to take steps to get rid of this scourge and to get us out of this crisis. And you're saying today that he didn't stop by until after what started happening. If you ask me, it's too late. He came by too late. He really came by too late, and that's what I'm telling him, because I should have done it sooner. You mentioned Mommy and the unfortunate child in your performance. I must say, I was horrified. You mentioned how sad it was when the child drowned, then took up Croatian asylum, and wanted to come across earlier, and was going somewhere else. Mr. Hoys, do you know what the problem is? The problem is, you have a regular salary. The problem is that you have a relatively regulated life. That you're an officer, you're an influential man. Well, this mother is none of it. But nothing at all. In distress, she did everything she could to save her family. And that's what some people don't want to see today, this misery and misery of these people. Then they look for a thousand and one reason to turn such a death. And we listen and watch and read the tweets that you don't resent, where it says, why the mother didn't teach her child to swim. If it's a horror that we don't realize it, this inhumanity, then we have a worse problem than we think we have. Because it kills our society, our inhumanity. I will vote for something that should have been voted on a long time ago. And that's what I'm gonna say. I told you at the first interview, you're not my secretary. And I'll say it again, not you're not a minister, but you're a pearl where there are no pearls.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Mr. Alexander Reberšek is preparing for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I listened attentively to Jani Möderndorfer and, yes, I must say, I agree, we have become completely insensitive. When I read when I drowned a ten - year - old girl, why didn't she go to the border crossings where we all go, I find that our right hand kills Jesus Christ in itself a million times every day. I am ashamed and ashamed to see what is happening and to what insensitiveness you are dealing not only with foreigners in distress, but also with our citizens. What happened on October 5th goes beyond anything we have ever experienced and seen, and I have been in the world for a long time, and I have also been in the previous regime loud, active, but something that Mr Hojs has done with this police force and with these guidelines on October 5th, we have not experienced, and it has indeed surpassed everything. On October 6th, we had the Internal Affairs Committee, where Mr Grims said as chairman, I said I was ashamed, and Mr Grims said that we did not finally have a human militia, but a modern police force. Thank you very much for this modern police force. Only a psychopath can look forward to that, Mr. Hoys. Modern police are no longer a human militia, of course they are not human, because people are beating, you would call them taxpayers, people are paying and you are working with them horribly. If I come back, I'm actually pretty sad right now, because we're here in a very absurd situation. Another time we're interpreting a minister who's resigned on his own. It's not in the world. And if I were to think why he gave up, as colleague Möderndorfer had said before, probably because he was offended when he was first investigated by Minister Restoration without his knowledge. And then his boss, John Janša, must have told him: “What will you do as an offended princess? Go there, so I put you there to fix it." And he gave you completely untied hands. You are also doing so because you are a very desirable associate of this radically far-right policy, which is governed by mafia principles, as we have already identified several times. With your hands untied, you've become the Prime Minister and the right hand of the Prime Minister. By representing yourself in the film, you are at home in the media, so you are very good at handling manipulation, you have set up a repressive apparatus, even at the UNB you know more about it than anyone else on the Health Committee. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u113	My colleague Tomić, just a moment, I'm sorry to bother you. Mr. Hoys, we're not in the movies, I understand you've been here all day, but it's inappropriate to eat in the hall. Put the mask on because you're in public space. You have a government room outside where you can follow the meeting. Mr. Hoys, please have some respect. You don't eat in the hall and you're not in the movies. So please. [[advertising from the hall]] I understand you've been here since 9:00 a.m., so I asked you to slow down where it belongs. No one's telling you that you're not in the hall because we all know there's a government room where you can follow the meeting. Well, that's an extreme example, I think, of an excess. [[advertising from the hall]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, no one in this room should sit on a chair and have lunch and eat. I don't know what. We're not in the movies. I ask you kindly for a little respect for the institution you represent. My friend, in a place where I'm sitting, I can't leave my place and, of course, the water is here to flush my throat if you'll excuse me. But you can get out of your chair at any time and go out for a drink of water. It is certainly not appropriate for this hall to be popcorn, peanuts, or anything else. Please, let us also give a little respect to the institution we represent. I apologize to you, colleague Tomić, for interrupting your debate, but the camera also showed Minister Hojs, and I found it completely inappropriate for those who might be monitoring the interpretation to watch this, representatives of your government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President, for this intervention. I also thought it was pure jesting when he chewed here and made fun of my words. You know, the fact is that the level of communication, respect for the law, human rights, relations under this government really hit the floor. When you think it doesn't go any lower, they spin a new hole in arrogance, shame, intimidation, manipulation, lies. And then every time they repeat that a lie is an immortal soul of communism. With this, accept your majority of the final lustration law that everyone who has ever been a member of the Union of Communists has nothing to do with politics or the economy. We will get rid of the SDS because it is the only party where the President has been trained in Kumrovec and who leads the party according to communist principles. And you keep saying with your finger. When we catch you on anything I don't want you to say with your finger. And then we have Jankovic, Golobič, Kučana, and I think it's a collective paranoia that's probably more necessary for some kind of therapy. We still have ours, yours. It doesn't matter if you know anything. But if he's ours, he can do whatever he wants. And then we have one after the other of these interpolations, which, of course, are not looking for hair in the egg, as Mr Doblekar says. Here are the furs, yes, the eggs are gone. There's only one fur. There's nothing left to look for. And this minister, Minister Hojs, always proves that he's technically completely incompetent for his function. He has a list of wishes which he calls content, and absolutely nothing takes into account the constitution, not the laws, thinking that his view of the world is merodal for all. What an endless self-esteem. And who gives you that confidence? Everyone speaks for themselves as an excuse is an epidemic, which is not one that has not been declared. And then you clap horribly when Visjak with 43 votes against and only 28 to stop interpolation. 43. Only three votes were lost. And the same with Dikaucic, same with Simona Kustec, Restoration. We have to give people these interpolations, because they all say to us: "But you keep silent, how can you sit with them at all? Why don't you go away, why don't you obstruct?" But our job is to be here until the elections with you, sit with you and try to achieve something with at least arguments, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Many sins have accumulated with this minister, as we have already stated in two interpolations. I'd be touching the protests right now. From the first day of John Janša’s reign, the Protestants were on Friday. They were peaceful, but the police were assigned to punish people who respected the measures, had distances, only footprints, and received high sentences. Then we had a phase where they read the Constitution and they wanted to tell them that their constitutional rights were being violated, and the police took them to the marinas and handed them high sentences. But Minister Hoys wanted more bloody protests. And what happened? Look at the fragment, as he likes to say, yellow jackets appeared all of a sudden on these protests. Like anti-protest, anti-protest, anything. I am very interested in, there are videos and it is a shame that Mr Hojs cannot hear me and cannot comment and answer – but fine, yes, he went a little, okay, I don't read to him – how some five people are dressed the same. But you believers don't have to keep nodding to esdees, and you don't have to keep nodding and jumping into my word. I was quiet enough to listen to extreme nebulosis and write down what I would answer when it was my turn. You're not capable of that. And this is the problem of this national assembly and this country that you simply are not able to cooperate and are not able to hear other salaries. This democracy thing, my dears, has nothing to do with it. In short, when five guys dressed the same way, wearing hoods, looking at their phones, and in the quiet protestors, they suddenly jump into the air and start smashing. Who's leading them? Why can't the police handle it? Hold on to your head, buddy! Have you seen what's going on in the street? You're not. And then, of course, Hojs calls these same guys pearls, which are thrown at someone else's face by pigs, so to speak, to people who are peacefully protesting. The problem with this government is that it actually protects criminals. Crime has fallen apart, but it's at the highest levels of government. And here you see, we should think about it. And then they say, "Poor mamas with wheelchairs." Look, the protestors never threatened poor moms with wheelchairs and stop manipulating them. If someone threatened poor moms with wheelchairs and me playing Grims and the minister who likes to show pictures like that, this is a children's playground, completely inundated, not one protestor is there. But they were children who had fled and poor mothers with wheelchairs were fleeing these playgrounds. “A shame, a shame, a shame,” your colleague would say, “I will not say names. More than shame, you know. And these protests were just a demonstration of power. In accordance with the Amnesty International guidelines on the use of force, tear gas can only be used and only in cases where violence is widespread in order to disperse the crowd, and only if violence is not stopped by any other means. Chemical irritants are never allowed to be launched directly into humans. If a tear gas is used, repeated or longer exposure should be avoided and decontamination should be followed immediately. The solvent should be used as far as possible and only after clear warnings have been given. Repeatable or longer exposure should be avoided. When using tear gas, the police must always take into account that it is essentially non-selective, which means that it can affect non-violence presences. That's what I'm talking about when I tell you kids weren't involved in the violence, and the police put them on their orders and command, they know who. The police themselves said they fired more than 400 tear gas rounds. A chronicler who has been reporting on events and protests for 50 years, Tone Stojko, a photographer, in his 50s, you know where everything and what he has experienced, until that famous arrest of Janez Janša, until the protests, when no one has been beating people who have protested in support of him, never experienced police violence. Now he's got a tear gas in his face. And if he's a chronist for 50 years, you need to know that it's not the youngest man, and especially a camera photographer is not someone who would put anyone in danger. And it's totally unacceptable for anyone to throw a tear gas in a person's face. Shame, shame, shame! They also did not have any reservations that such large amounts of tear gas are being released in a densely populated area, so that the tear gas was also being inhaled by innocent passersby, older ones, and children. Not to talk about police horses and dogs again, but to the police, they knew there was going to be a tear gas. What you're saying, and how you're twisting the truth, it's terrible, it's dangerous. It's just dangerous what you're doing. Ignoring the decisions of the courts, despite the fact that all decisions of the courts have always been clear and have also made it clear to you that decisions and those proceedings are not in fact permissible under exceptional circumstances. The President of the Constitutional Court is also responsible for the last failure of the government, under PC conditions, and he also explicitly told the public that you have already missed that time. This was in March 2020. You can no longer say that you are saving lives and that you are punishing people because of a sense of urgency. And then you read us the U.N.B. You have invested yourself on the Health Committee and on the second day you have withdrawn yourself. Okay, well, do you even know what you want, except that you want people to go completely out of business?Oh, my God! And then when people are completely tired, because they don't know what's going on today, what's going on at night, when these decisions are being taken, and people don't know what's going to apply on Sunday night. And when they're ripped off, then they need to be beaten. It's like a poor woman who comes home every day and gets from a man who's self-absorbed, probably alcoholic and has problems, gets beaten up, and this woman should love him. It's not going, it's not going, it's not going. Respect for people is the key to everything. And every citizen and citizen of Slovenia deserves respect. Whoever raises his hand to his own nation — you know well who did it in the history that you like to mention. Constantly lay responsibility to everything and to the previous government, and to the Constitutional Court, to empty warehouses, and to those who have thrown the rifle into the corn, the government is doing great, well, and you keep quoting some nebulos and some sentences because you think that if you repeat this lie a thousand times, it will catch up. [[…]] Unfortunately, more and more people have been overlooked and see that this is not going to work. Only 20% still trust the police, as much as 20% trust this government. Why and how, I don't know. I'm surprised it's still like this, but we really can't get involved in this. Utopia of the police across the line. Visits of party February under the auspices of the Minister of Interior at police stations are in fact a direct violation of the constitutional principle referred to in Article 42, paragraph 4, of the Constitution. You're breaking the Constitution, the laws, the procedures, I don't know, basic human relations. And you think this is all - you know, there was a book about John Janša's works entitled What can they do for us, and literally - what can we do for you? You will always find enough supporters from customers who no longer exist in this national council to swim to the end. In fact, however, I hope that this April will finally come as soon as possible and will bring us spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, all I'm saying is that we're gonna be right. Comrades of the opposition, Mr. Hoys has been here since 9:00 a.m. So it is not appropriate or proper that now that he has gone out to meet his needs, we address him as if he is not here or is not listening. I believe he listens to every debate. If not, he will be informed of the content by his colleagues. So let us be correct if we have said earlier that all house rules are also respected so as not to eat in the hall. So much so that the warnings that came from the coalition are satisfied. Yeah, buddy. I said it right, didn't I? Thank you. Mr Aleksander Reberšek, Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, next has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. First of all, I have to respond to the words of Member Jani Möderndorfer, who said that because of our mistakes, we have lost the most people because of our misconduct. Ambassador LMŠ ate the whole mind of this world when he was in opposition. But when it came to taking responsibility when they had scissors and the canvas in their hands, they threw guns into the corn. Let me remind you, Member Jani Möderndorfer is not only the first to commit crimes, but he is also the first to remove the mask in this temple of democracy and accompany her with the words: “I will not wear it anymore.” All clear? Otherwise, interpellation is a legitimate tool for the opposition. Interpellations are also useful for the opposition KUL. Let me tell you what you would do in the KUL opposition if there were no interpretations, the STA, the D.A.'s, the stupid taxes. Tell me what to do. Yeah, we wouldn't do anything because you just don't have the content. You don't have the content, and that's why such interpretations come in handy. We solved the STA problem, we solved the problem of the Delegated Prosecutors. So what's left for you? You will be left with a reference to such meetings or interpretations. That is why we are going to insist on this today for 17 hours, and since this debate, our citizens will simply have nothing from this interpretation. There's a lot of you in Levica when it comes to protecting human rights. While you report to Minister Hojs that he has obstructed undeclared and violent protests, the KUL opposition's politicians are physically blocking the course of the declared meeting The Walk for Life. As if that is not enough, you have done so under the slogan of the Patriarchate do not break the flower — the stones into your hands. And as if that is not enough, the leader of the Left Group, Member Vatovec, from the slogan of the Stone into his hands and from one of the most serious crimes and violations of human rights of rocking, works sarcasm here in this Chamber. Are you crazy? The answer is offered by itself: you are not. And God forbid you come to power. At the KUL Minister, you're reading that he violently suppressed peaceful protests. Tell me what these peace-loving protestors were doing on the Ljubljana bypass. What would happen if when they closed the road, a Ljubljana bypass, brought an emergency ambulance through because we know that they make many decisions for seconds? Tell me what would happen. The protestors closed down the Ljubljana streets, and the mothers were on their way to kindergarten to pick up their children, and they stayed in the middle of the road. Are these peaceful protests for you? Many of the people who worked hard that day were prisoners in traffic who, in your opinion, were imprisoned by peaceful protestors. Now it is a fact: violent and well-organised groups of thugs were responsible for the violence against the protests. By the way, you also invited KUL members to these protests and even took photos at the protests. For the votes at the polls, all of them. Because of well - organized riots, the police were forced to use gas, a police helicopter, and finally a water cannon. Tell me how it's possible that 15 police officers and more individual facilities were injured. If the protests were peaceful, as you say, why did the police detain 33 violators? If the protests were peaceful, as you say, why did the journalists who were just doing their job attack? If the protest was of a peaceful nature, I don't understand why the organizers didn't report it. What's the problem? Why didn't you report a peaceful protest? All the debate you are having today in this temple of democracy is completely emotional and does not hold any professional judgment. You just play on people's feelings, you're good in words, and you're missing out on the most important ones -- that's in action. All these and many other questions and all these concerns are answered today by the minister. Most likely, everyone in the KUL is already confident that you will support the interpretation, no matter what the minister says now. This is also evidenced by your participation at this meeting: four members of the KUL opposition. You all probably already know that the Minister of Interpellation will also be through. That's why I'm wondering why it takes 17 hours to beat an empty straw when we all know that the Minister of Interpellation is going to stop. What exactly is the problem? What's it really about today? I always want to get into the heart of the problem. And I also like to tell people that they'll understand better. The balls are shaking their pants. There's a pigeon coming into politics. New parties are being formed daily, and all these parties will be taking voting votes for you, dearly respected KUL policy. That's a fact. The main point of today's interpolation is to make a cow. We have to make noises to make it sound like there's a KUL party to hear us: we're here, we're here. If in the past only LMŠ jumped into an empty pool, now the whole opposition is jumping. Elections are approaching immensely, and the KUL is doing everything possible to raise its election votes. You probably don't think KUL plays cards and drinks beer four months before the election. But there are a lot of people on the street, including potential voters, and the KUL is afraid of competition. He's just afraid of the Pigeon. That's a fact. And that's why you're getting tired of people with such meetings, interpretations, where there's a show for the public. A performance for the public, which lasts 17 hours. Today, there is also a struggle for power. As the visible representative of the KUL opposition said, European money is coming, it is important who will share it, and above all it is important who will get it. And that's the point. Fighting for power and fighting for money, nothing else. To let KUL Members tell our citizens: “Look, we are here, you vote for us, you do not love others, you love KUL.” That's what this is about. It's the vote, not the interpolation. Worry about the interpolation KUL. It's a cheap pier. Besides, the balls don't believe what they're saying. Instead of doing something concrete in this temple of democracy, we are discussing 17 hours and the nation has nothing to do with it. And he won't have anything. Let me tell you how to explain to people the fact that we are able to discuss 17 hours in this temple of democracy, but we are not able to push one button where people, all those working in public administration and even in the economy, would be able to increase wages. But we are able to debate and speak for 17 hours here, and the nation will have none of it. And an even bigger parody, you at the KUL yourself called the citizens to protest, you poured oil on the fire, and then what happened happened. Now you are calling such meetings, interpretations, where you condemn the Minister for All and perform the performance for the public. And you at the KUL have nothing to do with it. That's why I only have one more message for KUL, and that's: Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Proposer Nick Prebil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My friend Reberšek, every time you pick up, I get a little sick. As much populism as comes from that side of you, I don't think anyone else and no other party can beat him except NSI. The fact is that the Minister has been intertwined for the second time on the basis of the facts explained in the interpretation, the facts already stated, the facts already identified and further identified by the Commission of Inquiry, that there has been and is a typical political influence on the police, that the Minister personally deals with certain matters and investigations, directly affects matters which are minor matters and do not have anything in common with the performance of his office. But the fact is, in the NSI party you like selfies with those you deny them support, we've seen it publicly. You lie to the public and you lie to yourself. Probably because Janez Janša's already knocked your balls out pretty good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Lidija Ivanuša has the word, and she will be given the word Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u120	Madam Vice President, thank you for your floor. Good-bye, everybody! There's a document in front of us that's supposed to describe why Minister Aleš Hojs is here today. First point, responsibility for creating emergency situations in Slovenia. The current government and all other ministers should also be responsible. The whole world is fighting the covida-19 pandemic, and you are accusing Minister Hojs and the entire government of the state and state of the epidemic. Let's see. Austria, for example, did not release a two-week lockdown until Friday in some countries. The Danube will only open today. The Austrian rule is PC, either you're over it or you're vaccinated. Testing shall no longer take place there from 1. 2. But no one gets upset and goes after someone like you. From 1. 2. 2022 will also pay €600 for each unvaccinated person, which will be repeated every three months. What else is going on around the world? In a month, New Zealand closed down the country and set up an army on the street that at the same time helped people and took care of order. This would by no means be feasible for us because of our left opposition, which is constantly accusing us of dictatorship. It is also a powerful exercise in the National Assembly, just past the rules of procedure. The Netherlands has just accepted a lockdown that will last over the holidays. Other countries are taking similar measures, but the opposition colleagues say that there is no such virus, there is no such danger. No, Mr. Aleš Hojs is creating a crisis situation for us. Perhaps, though, someone from the opposition is encouraged and may be blamed for the actions of other nations. Maybe Aleš Hojs is also responsible for the lockdown in Austria. According to the opposition, I would not be surprised to hear such claims. In the 2nd item of the Minister, you see the excessive use of forceful police resources during protests in Ljubljana. Your Honor, there's a virus among us that spreads mainly when you're unprotected in close contact with another person. Since most people are aware of this and trust the professions, we have very limited our association and visits, especially visits to the elderly. We restricted unnecessary routes and decided to move some coffee in the company of our colleagues to a later date. We are aware that irresponsible assembly and association can pose a serious threat to a weaker society. And you in the left opposition have often made it difficult and difficult to protect people from the covida-19 pandemic. In recent times, we can also monitor the stories of young, healthy people who have become ill with a severe version of covid and have been recovering for a long time. Here the opposition still claims that repression was used. It was allowed to protest, even though I believe that during the pandemic such associations should be banned. It allowed to insult the authorities, attack MPs and MPs, threaten representatives of the government. There have been even some violent attacks. One of these was discovered by Mr Zlatko over cameraman Nova24. Police arrests were always in line with the law. They've never been used across the border, and you know it. No one was beaten or dragged by our officers, even when protestors spat in their faces and provocatively sprayed, if we remember, with small black water guns, they stood there, even frozen and protected the innocent. I would rather not talk about the consequences of anything that could happen, so that all respect for our police and police officers for maintaining peaceful blood during illegal meetings. In further points, the opposition is talking about some kind of police politicisation, the use of police as a repressive means, the militarisation of the state. Dear colleagues, especially those from the Left, 31 years ago we decided to leave such a country on plebiscite. Those of you now glorifying the Communist authorities can remember clearly, in the SFRJ you spoke to the authorities one day, the next day you were on the Golem Island, or you mysteriously disappeared to an unknown place. Yeah, it was a militant country that abused the police. Today you can send a bullet to the Prime Minister and threaten him, and you threaten to kill his family and any possible threats that have actually happened. And what happened? Nothing. If you do such things, you will be responsible for your actions with a few fines if the court finds you guilty at all. Minister Aleš Hojs was probably just as surprised as I was at the charges, which are actually an interesting fiction for some new detective book. There is not even a shred of truth in these seven points, so today I will not support the interpretation of Minister Aleš Hojs. I wish him to continue his successful work until the end of his term of office. But to you, dear fellows in the opposition, to try a piece of truth at some point, to ease your soul, to tell you, and also to calm your sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper has the word and will be discussed by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I am sorry that I cannot welcome the distinguished Minister Hojs or at least the Secretary of State in the Chamber. I understand, of course, that the Minister is difficult to endure here continuously for 16 hours, that he also has his own physiological and other needs, but that as a member of this National Assembly I speak to empty chairs and that neither the Secretary of State is present, but given that we have an interpellation, it is truly strange. Asked the government to provide at least compensation with, as I say, understandable absences of the minister. I can agree with one of the Members before me that the question is how meaningful it is and how real it is that today Members of the KUL, as you tell us, we are discussing again for 16 hours an interpretation, this time an interpretation against Minister Hojs, knowing that this is actually our effort and our conduct is doomed to failure. Given that not only the SDS party from which the minister, the NSI party and the SMC party who form the coalition, but also the friends of these parties, Desus and both members of minorities will once again support the minister, regardless of what we may say. On Friday, we received a new lesson in democracy, when one of the parties is, and I will just say that it was NSI, actually all 16 hours saying that it did not support the minister, they said in their position that the minister no longer had their support, and then they abstained in the vote. So I agree with the Member who has debated that it is difficult in this sense to find the right motivation and to know that interpolation will not succeed. But that's what I'm going to say, and what we, the democratic opposition, can do if we think that one minister is not doing right, that he's doing wrong, that he's doing wrong. What can we do? We in the SAB party, for example, do not go to demonstrations, do not promote demonstrations, do not promote riots. We are convinced that our space that people have dedicated to us is that we are active, the National Assembly, so they have chosen us. And what we can do is, here, in terms of our constitution and our laws, we point out that we think that this minister should no longer perform this function. And now I'm going to tell you why not, even though there's been a lot of talk about it and there's going to be a lot more. We have covered the substance of the interpretation in four points. And I'm going to say what we said in the SAB Group in the position and what I've said several times. At that time, at my first meeting with Minister Hojs, this was at a hearing at the Committee on the Interior where I was a member, I saw that Minister Hojs was undoubtedly a very intelligent person, undoubtedly a very rhetorical person and undoubtedly a very effective person in pursuing his objectives. Unfortunately, after all this time, I can find out that I was right when I was worried about where, which direction and how Minister Hoys would direct these abilities and his own knowledge and energy. At the hearing, if you remember, Minister, you said that order should be made in the police and in the prosecution and that you would make order. And that's when I was worried about how you plan on doing this. And in this national assembly, I have mentioned many times in recent times how fragile democracy is and how something that we consider to be in some country is inherently fragile. We have said recently that Slovenia is one of the democratic countries, a young democracy, one of the more successful countries in the European Union, nothing problematic, no special star, I agree. But there is a country that is going through some stable routes with some progress towards the European Union, against democracy, against the protection of the rule of law; not against the fact that we do not yet have it, but in the sense that we are strengthening it even more. And the more I say, democracy is in my eyes like that kid's game when you put a bunch of those wooden sticks and you get a tower like that, and then you drag those sticks out and suddenly this pile collapses. It's a democracy. She's so sensitive. And when you pull enough of these sticks out, this tower of democracy, and also this sense of democraticism in people, is just collapsing; and that's what's happening now. And I can understand that you, Minister Hoys, or your supporters, or the people you're meeting, don't actually see what's wrong or why some of us feel that way. And I'm telling you, not only are we politicians, but the people we're communicating with, our constituents, are out of their minds, convinced that autonomy, authoritarianism, some authoritarian regime is coming into the country, that they are losing their rights. And these are ordinary people who are not political. People who live their everyday lives who are not professionally involved in such expressions, but who are personally hurt and convinced that things are going very badly. And secondly, that we who are in opposition draw attention to what is wrong and what contributes to the collapse of the pillar of democracy, of course we cannot do. I could now talk very much about all of these observations, which are listed in the interpretation, I think a lot of things have been said already, I might have been defined on two things. One is what's going on at the police station. I am also a member of this investigative commission on police politicisation, and I must say that I was deeply hurt when some former police officers, or members of the NPU, or members of the police management, were talking about how badly they were affected because they were replaced in their functions just because they were doing what they understood as a professional and as their professional duty. Obviously, this was wrong for someone or they were not in the right place at the right time and now they are demolished by sitting there in Tacno somewhere and doing some tasks that are not in line with their knowledge, their current practice, with their practical experience; and some have even retired. And then Mr Olay comes and says, "I'm very grateful to them that they're now dealing with backlogs in some special backlog group and that they're teaching something there and so on. And people are personally hurt, with tears in their eyes. I'm telling you, one or two of them retired prematurely, which is a major damage to the system. Slovenia is not a multi-million-dollar country where knowledge is available. And the fact that such people were replaced simply because someone who had previously been employed assumes that they are not real is very sad. And no one will convince me that they were not replaced because they were assigned to certain places or because they were assigned to certain procedures. And the task of this commission of inquiry, I am speaking only of what is publicly known, is of course to investigate whether these substitutions have led to delays in these criminal and predictive procedures, in the conduct of these criminal and predictive procedures. And given that all of this is publicly recorded and broadcasted, I too can say without any doubt that their relocation has certainly affected the fact that there has been a delay in these proceedings. And there is no way to get rid of the feeling that these people have been replaced because they have been investigating certain people who are close to this government, specifically Mr Restoration and others. And that's very wrong. And you, Minister, when you say, I hope you agree that this and this and this must be persecuted, this is not in accordance with your doctrine. If everything has to be persecuted, no matter who they are, then persecution — in the sense of prosecution — should be avoided — even those who are suspected of having done something wrong, regardless of whether they are members of the government. And to replace people just because they were in a certain place at a certain time, doing their job, is one of the big sticks or five sticks together that you can pull out of this tower of democracy. I say this argument – yes, because all governments have done this before – I do not smoke. I don't know if they were working or not. In the SAB we were all bad for three years in the government, and this was the first year and a half dealing with only one problem more or less, and the second year and a half we did not have these repressive resources under our responsibility. But the point of some mandates and certain appointments to such professional functions is that someone is doing some work in accordance with his knowledge and experience, and that he is not merely changed because he was not appointed by this government and is not there at the right time. And there were words left in my mind, because now I have forgotten to write, this gentleman who flew away, I will only say, because in that Tromostov convention, according to the information he had on the ground, he ordered that he should react to the yellow vests. The man who is still I have asked him: Are you still convinced after everything that has happened that you have acted professionally, responsibly, in accordance with your responsibilities and then reacted from your function as it should? [[…]] And he looked at me, and he ate the saliva twice, and he said, "Yes, I'm still sure of it. And man is now retired because in a specific situation, some security situation, at some precise point in time, he overestimated that violence could occur and reacted in a manner that the law must react. We can't give worse messages than this. And then in a situation like this, the minister, when you really don't need to, you start with these comparisons – pigs and pearls, that's right, I can't understand this self-destructiveness at all. [[…]] Why is that necessary? Just like I don't understand why Janez Janša needs to write such tweets, I don't understand why you need it. And then, of course, there's a bunch of things that maybe in some other context themselves wouldn't be problematic at all, but when you put it all together, this tower collapses. The immediate replacement of all commanders and police chiefs with some new, favored personnel. These are the things that destroy our democracy in several places at the same time, undermine trust in the rule of law and so on. In addition, of course, not to name the prosecutors, but not to name these European Delegated Prosecutors, and the whole saga in this regard, of course, STA and so on. This is a bunch of these cubes, which then gives people the sense that they live in a country that is no longer democratic and where the rule of law is no longer. But when I talk to you, the minister, the people, our constituents or the sympathizers, most of all, they're disturbed by this negative communication of yours. I say, on the one hand, there is no doubt that you are intelligent and capable and so forth, and on the other hand this offensive communication, which is intended for some political opponents, or not even political opponents, only someone who disagrees with you, is something that people are going crazy about because we can all understand, one we support such a policy, the other we support such a policy, it is not a problem at all, it is a problem in the way policy is implemented. The problem is, you call one pig, one we think the rest of us are not okay, and you call it a pearl. Or to someone who's subordinate to you and doesn't react at the moment like you think you're calling lazy. Or that you are publicly commenting on a public scene, that the Constitutional Court is completely corrupt and obviously subordinate to the left and that it is clearly accepting instructions from the SD. What should people think of such rhetoric? I wrote down during the discussion when you talked about the media and left trumpets, but you listed them, including POP TV, which publish stupid things every day and sell them to people. Thus, and the judiciary is the problem, the Supreme Court, the judges are still guilty, the police unions are lazy or all the police together, the police commanders on the police must be replaced, the media are corrupt and trumpet lies, the protests are organized by the opposition because people are so stupid that they cannot organise themselves. People simply can't agree to such rhetoric and completely annoy them, and to this extent it's frustrating to go to the street then, and to understand myself, I'm completely separating between those peaceful protestors on Friday and those protestors anti-vaccinators and so on, it's just another story and a completely different way of reacting. We simply tell you, Minister, that your responsibility in creating some extraordinary situations in the country is very great, and some normal policies could be implemented in some normal ways without offense, without provocation. Let's say I forgot that, I wrote here, you commented earlier – nothing bothers you that the Supreme Court does not have a diploma and a judicial exam. How can you say from the Minister's office that one of the Supreme Judges doesn't have a diploma and a judicial exam if we get this diploma signed now and another rector from Sarajevo has confirmed that it's original?Oh, my God! What else can happen and where do your discredits and your government go to?Oh, my God! And what is the result? The result is that among your supporters, and more generally, you sow this seed of some mistrust and this feeling – everyone is corrupt and everyone is lying, the journalists are sold, they are led by the opposition, the Constitutional Court is led by the SD. And in the end, people are revolutionized and completely saturated with this policy, and they say - because they are all the same; and they don't go to elections anymore. Is that a wish, but is that what we want to achieve? We in the SAB are really convinced that such a division, which has now taken place in Slovenia, will take years and years to make things right, and everyone who, by their way of doing politics, means of expression and so on, is responsible. And here your responsibilities are very great. I think that the situation in our country could only be significantly different if you and the Prime Minister shut down Twitter and leave you with this kind of expression that we are witnessing to. As far as other legislative changes are concerned and so on, the best answer is that you are not doing the right thing, that the Constitutional Court repeals this matter. I don't really have much to say here as telling people that actually these control institutions in our country are still working. Even when some strange laws are adopted, some strange measures, whatever they are, legal acts, obviously we still have the same thing that reacts to it, and in most cases it does not react specifically to say that it is wrong, but it reacts and says that the way you do it is wrong, is illegal, is undemocratic, and you have to change the way you do it. In the SAB Group, we will, of course, support the interpolation. With all the assistants, such as Desus and a member of the minority, and with all those who say the Minister doesn't have their support anymore, and then they don't vote for the interpretation, of course we don't have any hope that this interpellation will succeed. But we may have the hope that at least you will listen to what has been said today, perhaps for at least these five months you may change your course of action and show one better side of yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Minister Alesh Hoys has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, I should apologize to the Members first, but I was sure that it would be better if I stayed in the hall and ate three or four peanuts, as if I were not in the hall for the next half hour, but it was obviously the vice-president's wish. I apologize to everyone once again. I didn't know it was such a problem if I put two peanuts in my mouth after ten hours. Mrs Kociper, I must say that you have always been an extremely correct Member, even you have always debated correctly, I have nothing to report in this direction in contrast to some in this National Assembly. Of course, in the meantime, I have also obtained all the documentation that I will later show and with the documents to show who is lying and who is not lying, but it is not a topic for you now, it is a topic for Mr German. I'd say two, three things. True, it is probably always in politics that everyone communicates in their own way. You communicate like that, I communicate differently, your constituents don't tolerate my communication, if I understand correctly. Our voters say that I communicate very well, to say bob beans; and apparently, in the country it is always so, at least in a democratic country, that the means of communication are different and the electorates also accept different ways of communicating. Of course, I cannot say that if communication were different, the opposition would have cooperated differently. I don't think so, because it's not a problem communicating for this opposition. For this opposition is a problem because they are not in power or because you are not, but here I do not speak from you ad to the people. Because they are not in authority, because, as I have said, some think that this authority has been given to them in a cradle and that they must exercise this authority to the death. As far as these statements are concerned, since you are a lawyer and it seems true to me that in your great performances you were generally well-intentioned or were trying to be well-intentioned. I'm gonna tell you again, I didn't hurt anyone's ad person, even those pearls and pigs and so on, I didn't tell anyone it was a pearl, I didn't tell anyone it was a pig, I used a biblical term. By the way, that's why I was in criminal proceedings or pre-trial proceedings. I don't know if you know that. Someone just reported that I didn't know what it was. The police questioned me. I had to make a statement. The prosecution examined whether a crime could be committed; and in the end, they all found that there was nothing but that I used a phrase from the Scriptures, and that it did not fly on any ad person. But if someone's always pushing it, and here are these beaters of the media that you've named today, unfortunately, it's just that I, too, realized very quickly this year and a half that some journalists are lying. I can't say that any more than I say. They're lying. At the last interpolation I experienced here, the left party came and started waving with an article from their newsletter, from Youth, like this waved, just like one day before the interpolation, how I got illegal property benefits, I think, for 180 000 euros or something like that. None of this turned out to be true. He checked everything. Since KPK, I have confirmed that everything was legal, legitimate, that I paid everything right. What should I say about these journalists now – that they are well intentioned not to lie, that they are not at the service of the left or that the POP TV is at the service of the LMŠ or that I do not know who? I think this is exactly the problem of this society, because we don't have balanced media because we don't have a balanced reporting, and the pain, which is very much present in the current opposition, is that some 6 years ago we decided to put up our own media. In democracy, this is quite common. So Fox News in America found that it was nice to have a medium for a conservative body; today it is the second or first most watched television in America. Most of the things that have happened in America will happen to us sooner or later, and we will have it sooner or later so that the media will be more or less balanced, like in Austria, Italy. In Italy, for example, you have the First Program, where things are spinning, which are somehow produced or advertised by the authorities; on the Second Programme, the opposition has its place and things are very balanced. People judge, listen, and make choices at elections. Just the opposite. Our wish is to have as many people elected as possible, no less, as you say, as many people as possible. We have done a thorough analysis of where and how someone is going to the elections, and I must tell you that the largest voter turnout is at the Ljubljana Center. Do you know that the SDS gets the least? They're obviously living there, if I say so, and the old partymen, and I'm not talking about you, I can say that you're in the Centre, I'm not thinking about you right now, but I want to say that these people who were privileged over the years, something that wasn't; and that's where they get the SDS at least. But you have a huge, entire area where election participation is extremely low. I think it's right for people to come to elections, and our wish is to have as many people come to the elections as possible. And that's why we're working, so we're walking on the ground, so the government is walking on the ground as a customer, and we're talking to people, and we're showing them what we've done in this period. I must say that when I walk in the field, people are quite satisfied, it is different from those who gamble in parliament here in Ljubljana who are making a fool of themselves. I don't even know who paid for this beautiful banner in front of the National Assembly today. That's not cheap. Someone's got to have a lot of money to put it on, but I don't think he reported it, at least as I asked, the police didn't get a report that they were gonna be putting it on, but it looked nice, very artistic. And as far as the same criteria are concerned, someone flew away, someone didn't fly away, and someone left work. You have to understand that someone who is 30 or 20 years in a place after being replaced must be hurt. It's purely human. It can't be different. I think someone from SD said today that it's obviously our intention or that it's clear how those officials that we hire enter the client. I didn't recognize anyone here, you'll help me if I don't know people, unless you mean your children. We know that one of the party's leading members is SD's son, Mr Gorsk's former police director. It's public knowledge. We also know, for example, what Mr Möderndorfer said that we had had a director of the criminal police for years, I think the director, after at least 7, 8 years, was completely apolitical, of course, the profession itself. Look at the fragment when he leaves the police, which is suddenly the candidate of the SD party, today the mayor of the SD party. He's running for SD party in the European elections. Great, it's very professional, look, it's very professional. And then you wonder whether or not Mr Möderndorfer wonders if a gentleman comes to him, as I have understood, who went from the police and sells iron now. I think it is better to sell iron than to work 20 years in the police, in economic crime, but there are no results of this, nothing, no results. I repeat, Mr Verbic has already said, TES, NLB, that I do not list any results. And by the way, as far as who's successful is concerned, who's not successful, whether things stopped or didn't stop. In all those cases where I requested a review of the procedures which, by the way, were all completed, what Mr Möderndorfer said was not true. All these procedures have been completed. They were all closed, so they didn't actually find anything, neither did they find anything at the Ljubljana Bank, nor did they find anything in the abuse of the cartel position at POP TV. So wherever they touched anything, they didn't find anything. That's really amazing. However, I did not do this audit, as Mrs Györkös ordered, found, for example, that in the NLB investigation, criminals have not done so much as to inform the prosecution of the suspicion of the crime. Can you imagine that?Oh, my God! They didn't even notify them. I'll show you the report, I'll show you the report. It's been so long that everything's out of date. When I asked them in this regard – What did you do with the gentlemen who were investigating this, and what did you do with them? Yeah, nothing, you know, now disciplinary procedure is no longer possible, because it's all out of date. I think some healthy exchange is good for every collective, including the police. And what was said was that all these gentlemen lost their jobs, no one lost their jobs, ma'am, none of the current police station chiefs lost their jobs and no one will lose them, even if the police station chief is gone. Everyone's in a career system. Such nonsense as ex-Minister Poklukar spoke on television, you can't hear any more nonsense. He said they were afraid that the police station chief would be able to become a member of the yellow jackets. I mean, perfect nebulosis. You can't apply to this place unless you're already in the police system, if you don't have a school, if you don't have that many years of work, criteria and criteria are being prepared for what someone's going to be called. And one of the best ideas of the SD was that we should do it so per partes. First we'd switch some of them and then we'd switch something. I don't know how to do that. But I can imagine you saying - first, replace those who have been chiefs for 10 years. In two days you would accuse me – Aha, now you have replaced only those who have been there for long, those who have been set up by you, and those you will not change, those who have been set up in the last year and a half, and those who are now protected. It's not working. It's not working. And believe that you can, all will be made public, by the way, as Mr Möderndorfer spoke, the draft regulation was prepared at the time of the adoption of the law. I myself have demanded that the criteria, criteria, what the former Police Director has already been preparing be included in this Regulation. And it has to be ready by the end of this month. So all things will be public, transparent, anyone who, of course, will be able to apply will be able to meet the conditions. The Director will have the exclusive right of appointment. No one from the Ministry will get involved in who the director will appoint. And when these appointments are completed and it becomes clear that 70% of the commanders or commanders appointed are the same, then I hope you will not claim to be political appointments, because then that would mean that they are still ours as you wish to say. Those who have an expert base and who are essentially suitable for these cities will be selected. I would like to conclude now perhaps only with this, otherwise Mr Möderndorfer is not in there, but, nevertheless, he has spoken or inspired many times here, that I have some problems with Janković, that I know how much it costs. I don't know how much apartments cost today. I don't care. But I know how much it cost to build a cleaning plant at the time that Mr Jankovic signed the contract for this cleaning plant, because it was not today but it was not yesterday and it was not at the beginning of covid-19, but it was good two years ago. That's when I used to work in the profession. I knew exactly what the prices were. Therefore, once again, to sign a contract where the price per unit is almost 100% higher than they do in Germany, I find it questionable. It's extremely questionable. With one and only bidder. When you tell yourself that the estimated value is 19 million, then you give the bidder 20, and you say okay, just in case, because we never know what's going to happen, we'll just sign the contract with him. Today, as I know, this value is already at 60 million, 60, watch out. I don't know if Jankovic signed or not, but it's amazing what's going on. And I think it makes sense for someone to be interested. That makes sense to me. And the first person to be interested in this is certainly the criminal police and the prosecution. After all, it is these gentlemen who are now appointed, one has already been appointed, tied to the European Prosecutor's Office, who have to examine whether or not things fit. And I hope they will. If everything's okay, we'll all say - thank God everything's okay. We build things for once more. We buy passata in Germany for 20 euros and in Slovenia for 40, although we have half the price below there, but okay, so we decided, this is democracy, the mayor has been elected, nothing can and so on. And today, it's not the mayor's subject that there will be no dilemma. I just wanted to show by this comparison that it seems right for everyone to be using the same vats. And I conclude with what Mr Möderndorfer has told me. He said something like that – it's a real shame for you to show up on TV. I believe it's a shame. But it seems to me that most of the damage is for the left political sex, not for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. She'll be followed by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good evening, Minister! Colleagues, colleagues! Since 9 a.m., the opposition or the proponents here have given us arguments as to why we have submitted this interpretation. And we'll start the next 8 hours and 10 minutes and 50 seconds as far as the vote ends. We're reading to the Minister at this interview seven things that we think should no longer be there. I hope that the opposition in this country has the right to express its opinion and to do what is actually here. It's that wet interpolation, also that we call meetings and reminds us of things that he doesn't think are okay. I hope we still have that right. Mr. Hoys, we're reading you seven things, then I'll explain them further. By the way, on 30 July 2020, you resigned irrevocably and Prime Minister Janez Janša accepted your resignation. And you're still here. And you're breaking up with the police. But okay, we'll say something else. Your Secretary of State is very fond of repeating one winged. When he was mayor, he said the mayor was working quickly, efficiently and legally. Why do I know that? Because I was then an opposition MP in the city of Maribor. Today, as Secretary of State, however, the Government is saying that the government is working quickly, effectively and legally. I say one thing over and over again, that's that this government is working fast — it is, very fast. In LMŠ we call it human brutalism. By the way, last government meeting 17. 12. 2021 – a thousand 347 new appointments, new appointments. At about the same time, the government of Marjana Sarca was informed that it had made 285 appointments. A thousand 347. That the government is working effectively – I cannot agree with this statement, because if we look at the management of the epidemic, we see more than 5,000 500 dead people right now. This is how he manages the epidemic. Perhaps this is an effective operation according to your criteria, but for LMŠ this is not an effective operation. That the government works legally — if the rulings that the Constitutional Court annuls each day are lawful, then it does it legally. In LMŠ, we believe that this is not legal. So all of these winged species have been deemed to have been rejected. But if I'm going for some of the substantive reasons why we actually put this interpellation in, I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, it's not cool if you're calling cops snot and lazy, even though you're saying that you said it under some biblical anything. But in LMŠ, we don't think that's cool if you call the police a brat and a lazy man, and then you expect them to respect you and trust you. Because in principle, let's just say it would be nice for the police to trust and respect the minister in charge of, say, their department. Also, secondly, it's not cool to throw a tear gas, not to say that we're watering people with tear gas. I don't think that's the coolest thing in the world. Third time. Nor is it cooler to take people's freedom and terrorize them at night meetings with certain such and different decisions. And you are, of course, violating the principles of democracy and the principle of the division of power and the rule of law. I don't think that's cool. Fourth time. It's also not cool to destroy objective media and subjugate them and want to make trumpets out of them. That's not cool either. Although you have now explained, I have just written down, quote your statement a little earlier that balanced media will be in Slovenia sooner or later; there will be balanced media. But this is meant in this way, like the plan now, first as it was with the STA, and then now that the plan is with the RTV programming board and control council? This is now this balance when the law states that the Supervisory Committee, which states that the representation of the National Assembly must also be in that body. You hit her pretty hard. Is that the balance you're talking about? And that, Mr. Secretary, is not cool if you're destroying public service in this country. At least me and LMSH don't think that's cool. Also, fifthly, it's not cool when you intimidate and move employees to the police and establish criminal waters. It's also not the coolest thing you do not say in your trumpets, but I will say in the media that you finance in one way or another, where, of course, all those who are not willing to do so, you are gently discrediting with lies, with all possible, such and different, fake sniffs or such and other structures. And as one of your colleagues has already said today – a hundred times repeated lie becomes the truth. And you do that in these so-called media every day. I hope people aren't watching this and they're not watching it. Yeah, well, okay. If I may look a little further after what we read to you and what you actually did. As soon as you took office, you established, for the first time, the so-called Working Group on Illegal Migration, by the domestic criminal group for the withdrawal of unwanted persons. The paradox of this working group on irregular migration is that there is, in fact, no expert in the field of protection of the state border. None. However, there are, of course, a number of experts inside, and I will now say it in the notes, they must not do it, and we are paying them for it. The Working Group on Illegal Migration has started its work in October 2020, and its composition has made it clear that it has been designated by the police especially by those who needed to be withdrawn, and not by those who would be the best personnel for this area. The former Director-General of the Police, former Director of the Criminal Police Directorate, is inside, including Assistant Director of the NPU and many others. When you look at the way you did it, you solved everything, Mrs. Bobnar, even at the first meeting of the government, the first night, it was so urgent, you moved quickly, and the main reason was, according to information within the police, that they didn't want to remove the political pressure. In September 2020, the then Acting Director of Police Andrej Jurič sent them an electronic message that they were elected to a special government working group dealing with migration. If it's a relationship to send longtime experts an electronic message that you're moving them away from somewhere, then okay, that's just a relationship. I don't think that's a proper relationship. And when you look at the salaries of these people who are employed in Tacno, they do not know what they are doing, you see that these people deserve -- and I'm talking about six people only -- about 22 000 euros a month, and in this figure there's no compensation for work, by coming to work, by regressing, and all that we can't even see from publicly available data. And what exactly are they doing? It would be really interesting to look at reports about what these people at the end of the month wrote down that they were doing, what tasks they were doing. And because then it wasn't enough, because all those who don't want to remove political pressure have to withdraw, then you set up another working group, and you said that this one is a backlog working group. It's a back-up task force. The current director, Mr Anton Olaj, has set up a new group, under the cover of backlog resolution, in which investigators from the NPU have returned, which are, of course, disturbing to power. Among them is the head of the investigation, which, among other things, was watching over the investigation of the contested purchase of protective equipment, if you remember those mask secrets where the prime suspect is Minister Zdravko Restovalšek. And so on. It was, of course, to move these people alone and exclusively so that they wouldn't investigate things and that they wouldn't, God forbid, what kind of things came out of the public eye. But you know, because people read, people listen, people look, then those masks have also seen, and it's hard to sell them a story that protected lives, and it's hard to sell them a story that those slightly worse golfers have protected lives. And when a person looks at just the number of those fans on that day, we all remember the Target where Mrs Jelka Godec claimed that there were no fans in Slovenia, then you see that, yes, of course it was absolutely necessary to set up a back-up working group. That's how all those who didn't want to nod and didn't obviously want to sign things that they knew weren't okay. Mr Minister, if I were you, I would certainly not communicate in the way you communicate, because your statements are unworthy and unworthy of the functions you occupy. All this shameless tweeting, all this arrogance, the insult of everyone who disagrees with you, including the insult of police officers not least, the judges, all the provocations, of course, all this leads to a decrease in the confidence of the people in the police that your predecessors and your predecessors have earned with hard work, somehow to say in quotes, earned. With hard work, the police deserved to be respected again. And what did you do? You've ruined this reputation with all your moves and everything you do every day. And it saddens me that cops don't deserve it because, as far as I'm concerned, they still have too much pay for what they do. Even those who are either on the highway, and also those who investigate murders and other things; and it is not right for them to be treated in this way, and it is not right for them to let, so to speak, this confidence in the police at the lowest possible level. And what's even sadder is that you won't be able to fix it in a very short time. It'll take years for people to start trusting the police. When a person listens to you today, and not just today, in all your performances, of course everyone else – the Constitutional Court, the people, the information officer, the opposition, in any case, is a disaster, that I am not even talking about the deep state, the media, the protestors. Always, others are always guilty of what you do; and in this way you apologize for all these really bad things. I would really suggest a little self-reflection. Perhaps, yes, I don't know, but you should think about yourself, because it doesn't lead anywhere, because it only leads to an even greater division in Slovenia; and this is bad for this country. This is bad for our children, who probably want to live in this country, because we probably don't want everyone to go abroad, so we can go to school here first, and then everyone leaves. That's why I would still ask you to hold back your hormones and your rhetoric a little bit, because it'll be better for all of us. If you don't believe me, which I believe I don't, then read here some poll that says how many people trust the government. This government, when it came into existence, had a very high trust in people, and look where it came from today. Is it the opposition's fault? Is that what the protestors are responsible for? Are they guilty of this, I don't know, by an information officer? Probably not. Why did this happen? In fact, you forget that you produce this on your own every day. Even all those parchments with decrees, today so, tomorrow so, by opening, closing the congregations, the cook – no, on the other side of the road there is a cookbook – yes. People no longer know what is right and what is wrong, and they no longer know what is valid today and what is not valid. I don't want to go back to all those lost trucks, and the golfs fly over the planes, and the boxing story with the guns, the war equipment, the military planes don't. [[…]] And here are the reasons why this is the case. Not in a deep country, but in the opposition. Because ruling is undemocratic because you, as executive and as an entire government, of course, take the power of the legislative authority. Why are you doing this? The reason, of course, is the minority government. In addition, these decisions shall be adopted at certain evening meetings and shall enter into force on the following day. And you're calling those night press conferences, and of course it's causing confusion between citizens and it's causing anger among citizens. Because this is simply an inappropriate way to deal with the epidemic. If you remember anything else that we've already forgotten in this year and a half, and restricting the movement to the regions to municipalities, banning mergers, then banning the use of food on public surfaces. And to remind you, for the first time since World War II, you also gave us a curfew. These are all things for which you, of course, should have a basis in marriage, but you do not have one. That's why you do what you do. Minister, I just don't think it's right that you're doing this so you can do it differently; that is, that people will understand it. But you don't want to, because you obviously have a tendency in some different way. And that tendency is wrong. Now I have to respond to what Mr Reberšek said from NSI, who so likes to perform over and over and over again and then erupts in his populism. And that's the way it is today, and well, that doesn't bother me at all. He was talking about what the KUL would actually do if it weren't for STA and the D.A. And I'm answering him. First, of course, you have to create a problem to brag about saving him. And you probably have to be completely without a vision of doing something like that. Because in the government of Marjana Šarca we had no problem with STA because the government was aware of its duties and carried out them. Then Mr Reberšek also spoke about some physical blocking of the Walk for Life and, of course, wondered if we were normal. I have to tell him that we are normal, but I do not want what the President of NSI ordered – Christian Democrats in one of his interviews, when he said, to quote, "to make the abortion difficult". I hope you won't ban our abortion because this book allows us to do so in Article 55. I hope no one ever thinks of following the path of Poland. I hope you don't think about it. And then the same populist gentleman said that you were able to sit here for 17 hours, be careful, not press the button and raise people's wages. I suppose he was thinking about the Income Act here, so I have to tell him that you withdrew the Income Act in the Coalition yourself. Why? Because you've obviously found that you don't have enough votes, because you haven't had enough "pulling eggs" for someone who, of course, supports you, but is considered an opposition. Even more serious is the problem with NSI — do you know where? On Friday, when we spoke about Minister Visiak, when so poetically, Christianly, God-fearingly said that Minister Visjak no longer enjoys our support. That's how they ended up very epicly. And then, look at the fraction, they weren't able to squeeze on the key. You can't believe it. This is the duality that we have been looking at at at NS for the entire term. They say one thing and they do the other. So, as I say, I hope you won't all remember together in this coalition to ban our abortion. Let me finish. In LMŠ, of course, we will support the interpolation that we have proposed, because even in our dreams we did not think that within a year and a half we would reach the level at which we are. And no, we're not all the same, and thank God we'll never be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. He'll be followed by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u128	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Minister! We're kind of halfway through, and it's been said a lot. I will try to focus on this content myself and somehow respond to the answers you have already given. First of all, I might mention two things that you have discussed today and also in the past — two documents that you have highlighted. The first refers to that letter from the Director-General of Police, which is somehow aimed at regulating the National Investigation Office, and the second letter, which should have suggested the introduction of mandates in the previous government. As far as I know, I was only a little interested in these documents when we were on the show together. I've been looking at the media, asking a little questions, and I have to say, as far as I know, the then Director of the Police Directorate and other security tasks for Minister Poklukar have drawn up some guidelines based on some of the controls that have been carried out by the Criminal Police Authority, I believe, as well as the National Investigation Office. And then, I believe, the Director General of Police was given these guidelines in order to regulate this situation or this relationship between the Criminal Police and the NPU, because communication is not supposed to be the right one or there is some casual exchange of information. It is said that some of the instructions that have regulated this situation have been issued, and when the management was taken over at the time, I think that, Mr Lindav at the UKP and the Male at the NPU, this cooperation has taken place and there have been no further problems. However, as far as I know, the police did not change, nor did they propose amendments to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police regarding the NPU. And these changes occurred, of course, after the government changed, and, of course, also in this law, which I am talking about, the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, the position of the Director of the NPU has been evaluated because they then removed this official council for the Director of the NPU and then put it on the level, I will say, a sector leader. And if I say so much more that he somehow took the first autonomy or began to take it with the amendment of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, then Minister Gorenak in 2012. However, as far as mandates are concerned, we must say that, of course, the previous composition of the government did not propose the introduction of mandates. Even less, it would have been done in the way it happened. These mandates were proposed in 2002 by the then Minister of the Ministry of the Interior, and this letter, which you say, was written by the police on the basis of questions or the MNZ initiative to define the police before the union proposal, which should somehow propose these mandates. This, I believe, is justified in the way that the police, of course, have no objection to mandates, to somehow regulate themselves in the law, but the letter points out that this must not have the effect of policies or unions on the other hand, that leaders must assess both superior and of course subordinate; and not politics. And that a model of certain competences and career systems must be established. The key is to establish a career system. And the important thing is that this change should not take place overnight, and it is important to emphasize it. It is more important that the prior professional criteria and competences under which managers will be appointed are precisely defined than that they are introduced or not introduced. Then the opposite happened, on the cut-off date, that everyone had reached conclusions on the termination of the situation. And we already know the story. And that's actually the truth about mandates. It is not that the previous government or the previous police leadership has sought to introduce these mandates; however, they have somehow responded to the intent of the unions that have tried or have proposed this matter. To get back to the National Bureau of Investigation. Following this government's appearance and following the appointment of the current head of the National Investigation or Current Head of the National Investigation Office, some of the employees there were discredited, mostly those who worked on rebuttal cases. People and many members of the coalition have already forgotten one event and one discreditation of one of the NPU criminalists. We are talking about when Mr Victory Jelinčič the Tribal asked the question why it happened or whether it was true that an investigator from a citizen borrowed 6,000 euros for the apparent purchase of the illicit drugs and did not return them. Of course, that's when I asked the question myself, Minister, and I asked you if that really happened. As far as I know – and then the media also wrote – the police answered that this did not happen, and you replied to me that, I will quote, “the statement directly damaged in the particular case confirms the reality of the event, so a staff member of the National Investigation Office has borrowed from him money worth 6,000 euros, which is supposed to be for the apparent purchase of illicit drugs, and this money has never been returned to him by a staff member of the National Investigation Office.” If I am looking at articles that have yet to appear in the media in this regard, Dnevnik, by the name of Jelinčič and Hojs, discredited the NPU investigator with the assistance of the arms dealer. Then it says here that the U.S. Attorney's Office considered this, that they didn't find anything, that it was a design and that things didn't actually happen. Anyway, this person, as far as I'm aware, is no longer at the NPU, but she went to work on the union, and then the principal told me that at her own request. Of course you do, because you're once discredited. Minister, you never responded to that again. There's been a man's guilt. I guess there's been some injustice. And unfortunately there was no answer. Here, in the National Assembly we were rolling his name, now I don't know what cases he was working on, but I believe they were dealing with a lot of NPUs and the most urgent cases. I believe he's here, too. It might be interesting to find out what case he was working on and why this discredit actually occurred. And I have to say that this thing still burns and hurts a little bit, especially because at the start, my question was not already relevant or, I'll say, some real answers, but it was more about who it's going to be. Here, of course, I can also touch the media, but you said yourself that we do not have balanced media in Slovenia. The media, which is called mainstream media, I think is balanced. You know why I think that? I'm thinking, when we're in power, I'm going to say, this left-wing political option, this is exactly what the media is slapping at, and I'm going to say it at home, and so are we. In addition to the right-wing media, these lions are also critical about us, and I must say, of course, we're getting a little nervous, but that's the way it is. And if these media criticise every time power, we can say in some way that they're balanced. We can't say that about the media that's close to your party. I don't know if I'm ever going to see Nova24TV publish the news that either the President of the Government or the Minister, that I'm not exposing him, make a mistake or not agree with any of his publications, with his action, with a statement. If there's a lack of balance, then there's a lack of balance in this place. That's why it's all on the average to accuse some media of being regime-based. Of course, there's one on one side, the other side, but at least these mainstream media, I think they're working with this address because they're actually criticizing every time. And actually, there's just one thing about how you accept that criticism. I believe that sometimes they're unfair to you personally, but we still have something more to deal with. They came to me, too, and they will, if I'm still in politics, so I don't think we can do everything on average when we don't like something, then we can do it right away. The vast majority had already been told, but I thought it was right to mention this story of this criminal, and now, we can say, false accusations or deliberate discredits to make this man a fraud in some way, I don't know why. That someone borrows 6,000 euros from someone to go into the apparent purchase of illicit drugs is unlikely; and that is why I have also asked this question. However, I must say that we should say the matter to the end. And also, Minister, on your part, a word on this subject would be welcome and finally something will be said to this man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is Tomaž Lisec. And after him, let Micah Kordish get ready. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues who insist on saying good-bye to all! I must say that I am fortunate that it is my turn to follow my colleague Bakovic, who, unlike the vast majority of the candidates or representatives of KUL, who deal with pathetic, fiction, lies, deception, spoke very correctly and also very concretely. But I like what most of the opposition's KUL does on Fridays, on today's interpretation, because I believe that for each such interpretation the KUL loses at least 2%. Although ministers suffer that day, I hope they will suffer if this makes KUL lose a percentage or two for each interpretation. However, I must say that unlike any previous Minister of the Interior who, according to my personal experience, I can say, acted very hypocritically when he made a public promise and then made a completely different one, and then I respect my colleague, Aleš Hojs, precisely because he tells the truth and tells it directly. He is not turning any lies into a cellophane, and therefore I believe that there is much more on the ground of all those who are fleeing the truth in Slovenian politics. When I read this interpellation, I must say that I have written – funny arguments that serve as a personal attack rather than a serious political debate, either in terms of the work of the interior ministry or the work of the police. And I must say, given that I have sat here for the three mandates when the so-called left-wing power was on the government, and for the last 8 years, it has changed considerably in the last 18 months under the leadership of Mr Hojs. If we just look at the Presidency, which unfortunately Slovenian media do not want to cover in any way, I am not here as a lawyer, colleague Aleš Hojs, but only the success of his ministry and his team within the Presidency can be a great compliment. But instead of compliments in Slovenia, ministers who work experience interpolation. I must say, however, I am very pleased that after all these years, when we have unsuccessfully pressured the left ministers in the position of the Interior Minister, we have finally taken on the application of fictitious residences, that we have not only arranged this but are already showing concrete results with numbers. I come from Posavje myself, and I know what problems we had in Posavje with this subject; and things are being solved. And things are also being resolved under this minister in the area of Roma issues. Ask the mayors of municipalities where they are facing Roma issues. And they say: finally, under the leadership of Aleš Hojs and in cooperation with the other ministries of affairs in this area, they move. It is no longer the case that the Slovenians are second-rate, but that the Roma are treated in the same way as all of us. For the introduction, you may allow three more praises because I come from Posavje. After Katarina Kresal took over the police administration in Krškem and when the parliamentary MPs tried to explain to the ministers of the interior how nice it would be because it was a border region or region to get back the Krka Police Administration; we are just before the beginning of 2022 things actually happen. Finally, at the Brežice Police Station, they also received a specialized state border control unit. Personally, too, since this is not enough in our congregation, I thank the Minister for his hearing about Radna’s shooting site. Thus, the Weapons Act, which was adopted, will reduce the sound strength, as well as the agreements that are under way with the Municipality of Sevnica, are on the right track. Eight years ago, there was no hearing for the inhabitants and inhabitants of Bosnia and Sevnica, under this minister, not only are we listening, but either the Minister or the Secretary of State come personally to the place where things are happening and try to solve them together with the local community. But it was interesting to me when a representative of LMŠ told me earlier how they had too low wages in the police. What did their Minister Poklukar do? He didn't do anything. The easiest way to survive a ministerial function is if you sit in your office for four years, keep your mouth shut, don't tell the truth, and don't roll up your sleeves. And this minister, who has an interpolation award, has provided higher salaries to the police. So much about when MEPs talk about low wages when they were in power, they didn't do anything about it. I myself have been a member of the commission of inquiry for some time, and I must say that, in fact, at each session, it was more pathetic when a story is made, because five people have switched with the other five people. Five people are insulted, and five people have new opportunities, just like this minister wraps up his sleeves and starts to solve and detect various Miki Mouse and Jake Racmane in Slovenian criminal associations. I don't see any fun from this, but even though those who are most active in this investigation want to find something in every way; but where there is no fire, there is no smoke. And after having felt in the last 5, 6, 7, 8 years that the NPU is more in the shielding phase saying that now the same NPU has problems with another chief because it wants to remove the levels of confidentiality from individual files, so that not only the police, but especially the Slovenian public, see that it is necessary to detect crime which is unfortunately still too much in Slovenia. To conclude, let me ask you something else about the protests. I have here before me the Law on Public Collections, which I think I have started to review very regularly since 2002, when I became president of one local society, which organised about 8 to 10 matters per year, but not smaller. If I can praise you again, organize an event when you sign up for the Guinness Book of Records with 18,000 visitors who pose high security risks on several issues, I wonder with interest how everyone can support illegal protests. Article 11 of the Law on Public Meetings: “The organizer of the meeting must report the meeting at least three days before the date of the meeting and the organizer of the event at least five days before the date of the event.” And what is happening there on the market or on Ljubljana streets is ridiculed by all those serious representatives of societies and organizations across Slovenia, when they try to be either at the police station or at the administrative unit and report events and meetings, collect documentation, there is nothing to do about it. And if I read here just another 6th article on restrictions and a 10th article on the general duties of the organiser, I must say that the police are still too light on these illegal meetings. When boys are either in the rain, or in the sun, or in the cold, they are silently tolerated by language, verbal and some other, physical; and then be judged by these police officers, who are these officers. Police officers operating under the law are obviously part of the KUL coalition's solution, and personally to me they are part of the problem. From this place, the police's top job, and if a secretary of state comes to ask what was going on after the riots, I think it's only his duty to verify that everything was in accordance with the law, in short, that at least the police were keeping the laws if those who were hiding under illegal protests did not know them. In short, I propose that in the coming weeks, the days, if there is another protest that all police officers have the Public Assembly Act and share it, perhaps the organizer of the meeting will also be found. And then he needs to be deepened or treated in the way he treats all those who only report the event in an untimely manner. I think Aleš Hojs is working properly and specifically, so he's a thorn in the heel, so he deserves another interpolation, but this time I won't support interpolation. Mr Hojs, I believe in the next job by the end of the term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. He'll be followed by Matjaž the German. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. In recent debates, it is very common that the SDS party or its Members everywhere see various Mike Mouse and Jake Racmans, but only and only they, I would be much more concerned with peanut ministers that we all see. One such case is today in the hall, on the floor, Minister Hojs, on the floor for the interpretation we have submitted; and we have submitted it for very good reasons. If I draw the line and sharpen the debate on political correctness, I say directly, Minister Hojs has one and one mandate in this government, that is to take over the police vertical for the SDS. Nor is this an abstract desire to be born in the head of Janez Janša, but it serves very specific political objectives to protect organised crime, as is the case under the current government and as actors of the current government have done before. This is a long story for a short time — the mission of Minister Hojs. It's humane to subdue the police to protect organised crime, instead of persecuting organised crime. How else, when it is the largest, most successful criminal association we have in this country, a SDS party led by Don Janez Janša. For the sake of context, I must first point out purely ideologically what the police are and what the role in today's society is. Police are a repressive apparatus of the state, which by definition defends social order. Slovenia is a capitalist country with very large inequalities, such as that someone can own more than 100 million euro of property or more than ten million euro of property; on the other hand, poor pensioners must go with 500 euros of pension and we have 250 000 people in poverty and so on and so on. Well, the task of the police in such a country is to defend legal inequality when regime propaganda fails. To put it simply, the task of the police is to defend the rich if the poor and the workers are organized to resist them. Despite the fact that we still understand and see the police in this country through criminals who are to prosecute organised crime, the ordinary police who work in this country understand through transporters. And so things went until two years ago when Minister Hoys happened. Together with Minister Hojs, the prosecution of crime has been translated into the protection of criminals in power, and the police have turned from the public order to the institution of disorder. Of course, it's both related to the staffing of the police. That this was very high among the priorities of the current government, Janez Janša, was already shown at the first government meeting on 13 March. On 13 March, the government replaced the police summit, where it placed SDS soldier Anton Travner, a man suspected of misuse of public funds, who was then quickly followed by the exchange of the first criminalist. This then became the official of the Slovenian Democratic Party Vojko Urbas, who had previously been involved in sexual harassment and acted as a specialist in wiretaps and other special methods. Why, but why would someone at the police summit want to see a specialist in wiretaps and other special methods?Oh, my God! Probably after 30 years in this country we do not need too much imagination to figure out what this is really about. The third step in subjugating the Slovenian police was the headship of the Slovenian FBI, the National Investigation Office, which last committed itself to appointing Petra Grah Lazar to the top of this National Investigation Office. And here perhaps the most plastic we can see how the government of Janez Janša understands the police as an authority to protect their earnings and their criminal activities rather than prosecute crime. Petra Grah Lazar, an official who has taken over the management of the National Investigation Office, is a close friend of a self-indulgent doctor of tax evasion, an interstate roommate who pursues everything in a row that he does not like, hides property from his family members, himself in Bosnia, drives by masseracy, while officially does not receive property. Of course, I am talking about Prime Minister Janez Janša Rok Snezic, who, among other things, has brought an action against me, and has also lost this action. And, of course, Petra Grah Lazar, what do you imagine she's going after her close friend? Absolutely not. Not at all, especially since Roz Snezič is closely linked to the SDS party and participates in a criminal association, the international criminal association, which has been in various countries – from Austria to Cyprus, from Hungary and Slovakia – has washed 22 million euros since 2016. Now, watch out. Part of the money from these 22 million euros has also been poured into the paradistrian trumpet of the largest ruling SDS party, namely in Novo24TV. This laundered money has also led to the funds that Mrs Djudzic wanted to borrow from the Slovenian Democratic Party before the last elections. And the whole picture comes together very quickly. This government does not prosecute crime; this government, in order to protect its crime, subordinates the police to its own party soldiers. And of course, when people stand on the back of their feet, they resist this kind of way of dealing with terror and literally robbing everything that's not nailed, what happens? Once again, this police comes to the aid of the authorities, this time well-repentant and critical voices intimidated. And we get scenes, as we could see in October, when the entire centre of Ljubljana was incinerated, including people who did not protest at all, the original protestors there did not even create any unrest, but the government at the head of Minister Hojs was in a hurry to show off their repressive muscles, so she did not throw only 400 gas canisters at Ljubljana's centre, but it also watered well with the water cannon. I think that these are all very eloquent reasons why the Minister must leave his post, and the current government of Janez Janša must also leave its post. To conclude, I must say that I expect from the next government that all these controversial appointments, the personnel that Minister Hojs also says that he had no hands with him – perhaps even if we know that everyone in this government is running to Trstenjakovo and to the hands of one man – that all of this, where the suspicion of the client's appointment of his supporters to the leading positions in the Police, will, of course, be rectified in the next term under another government. Janez Janša continues to claim that he is fighting a deep country that is in fact nowhere, just to create at the same time an actual deep state at the head of the police of the Republic of Slovenia. The police, who will not be commanded through elected representatives and experts within the police vertical, will be the police, who will work according to party instructions from the Slovenian Democratic Party headquarters.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by Minister Alesh Hoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u134	Yes, thank you. I would only explain, honourable Member, the canister is an old German word, I would say speechless. It is usually used for quantities of between 15 and 40 litres, and of course it is entirely impossible to use 400 tear gas canisters. No one used canisters, but they used appropriate missiles, which, of course, are 40 times smaller, I'm talking about quantities, like a canister in volume, which I've presented. But of course, since I know you're a sociologist, it's probably harder to understand what a canister is or what a smaller unit of measure is for volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Replica, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u136	400 rounds of tear gas. Is that gonna be better?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you, but now it's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Matjaž German. And she'll get the word "magic" after him. Elena Zavadav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, good evening, now is a good evening! Miha Kordish, my colleague on the right, from Left, actually mentioned how repressive funds were used on October 5th. At that time, the EU-West Balkans Summit took place on Brdo pri Kranj, which was Tuesday. This is the day that Minister Hojs was abroad when, I think, he tweeted, correct me that he was not at home; then we just realized that he had also visited the so-called headquarters, operating where he convinced himself why the police, as he himself said, quote, “I expected more individuals to be detained after such violent protests”. At that time, a wider part of the public, although used to the absurd statements of the Minister of the Interior, wondered how the Minister of the Interior, who should generate reconciliation, peace, understanding and communication that would calm people, could in fact only fuel the already angry crowd of people because of the protest against the government, others because of codifying measures. Since, of course, the day the police used all the funds at their disposal in the early afternoon, I am talking about cavalry, dogs, tools that my colleague Kordiš mentioned, at a time when mothers and children were walking around the parks, pensioners, food suppliers, without any warning, the Ljubljanans woke up in a fenced Ljubljana, without any prior notice. At that time, if you remember the evening before, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided at the correspondence meeting to actually include an article, I think paragraph 9, if I am not mistaken, where it will actually spend the funds, as it now seems the most. In addition to all of them, more than a hundred protests, I think they could already point out 11 of them, which were somehow or otherwise linked to strange events, at least three in this year's year. I'm talking about September 26th, I'm talking about June 25th and October 5th, if we add the one from November of next year, when the minister stepped among the people, among the protestors. I don't understand your gestures, do you want to tell me, Minister? [[advertising from the hall]] Ah, thank you very much, yes, last year, when you first took a walk in history as Minister of the Interior with special units, and this, as we have proved later, despite your words that you did not attach to it, and we have proved that in the middle of the action, if I recall well, I think that, well, a good half an hour before the action ended, were burdening those people who must protect you by law, we are talking about the Office for the Protection and Protection of Individuals like you, because you are a protected person, and of course all those who, instead of protecting property and individuals, when the violence has already erupted, who actually had to deal with you so that nothing happens to you. Because if you did, you would probably get even more criticism from the SDS party and from your side at the expense of those protestors who then committed violence. But like I said. A large majority of people are taking part in the protests peacefully, asking why the sequence of events between 26 September and 5 October, when a new protest group actually appeared on Wednesday, allowing the first protest to make this violence grow even in a way that did not involve all forces. But this is not a question for you, it is a question for the Director-General of the Police, who, in my opinion, laity, would not allow himself to wear your shoes – he should have already stepped down, if not the other, because of the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, which he admitted to being involved in the preparation before and after the supervision of the police's work. So the police director met with a group that supervised the police work report for June 25, 2021, before and after the event. Moreover, the Director of Police himself admitted to the Commission that he had intervened in only the report before it was sent to you and published. What's in my eyes is the operating mode, which followed it, this year, when the minister, if I'm not mistaken, published on 3 November the personal data of the police officers from the surveillance reports carried out at the police administrations in Nova Gorica and New Town, by the way, where both the presidents of both unions come from, and, of course, on the General Police Administration, which should be illegal, so at least the experts argue. So by publishing the salaries of all police officers or employees, both at home and abroad, the minister actually put a police officer and police officers, especially in relation to their families, their relatives and, of course, each other. Although the Minister argued in the morning that no harm had been done, I could claim that, and earlier, I had done the same to know the example of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, when a member from abroad had to withdraw because his information had been published. Dear Minister and distinguished colleagues from the SDS party, I hope to state with full responsibility that such politicisation of the Police Authority, as we have received in the last 30 years, has not been seen by the Republic of Slovenia. Not only with the summit – Janez Janša, followed by Hojs, State Secretary in the Cabinet of Gorenak and other Secretary of State Mahnic, both secretaries, both Predalič and Kangler, and of course lower down, the Director of Police – Olaj, Urbas – Director of the Directorate of Criminal Police, Grah Lazarjev – Director of the NPU, this is what the National Investigation Office says; and even the colleague Grims – President of the Committee on Internal Affairs; represent, I will say, a cluster of individuals from the SDS party, if I exclude Mr. Kangler, who is working with the same party and thus confirms the political subjection of the law enforcement body, which was also at its summit in the past, without condemning them, but it was so confused with the fact that the internal security procedures against them were introduced. We're talking about Dr. Olai, his predecessor Travner, Yurich, and Mr. Urbas. What a person cannot believe if, abroad, he explains that we have practically the current director of the police and the two former predecessors who were involved in any way, someone with daily mixing, another with a certificate of service or work responsibility at the time he was caught by the radar, of course, Director Olaj, who in 2010, as he is able to understand from the public records, was involved in some overlaps at the Novo Mesto Police Office. In general, one asks why the SDS party's recruitment with people who have already been professionally written off and then put back in position, even though above all one would want to be performed by individuals who are competent and unobstructed, at least in terms of individual integrity. What's in your eyes, as I've pointed out before, and I didn't get an answer to it, is the case of Bajrami. This one was a little exposed in public, but an eclectic case of police recruitment. And if our Minister of the Interior has a clear opinion on every matter, as one of his colleagues has pointed out, that during the co-existence of the crisis he was the minister most exposed to the public, namely to the fugitives in the European Union, that the Minister of the Interior is communicating matters that are not of his field, but on behalf of the party, in fact, he points out a certain view and policy, something is very wrong with us. So not only is the Minister of the Interior acting as Minister of the Interior, but he is also acting as Director of the Police and I do not know who else, perhaps a government communicator in one role. What will be in your eyes, Minister, that you have a pure opinion on every matter in the case of Bajrami, and here I expose it, because I hope that the media will fully investigate this case, because we, as politicians, are doing this through our channels, it seems impossible that practically the person who was employed by the police, who, by the way, also found herself in the international delegations in the past with Prime Minister John Janša, is that, despite the fact that all the authorities and individuals responsible for this have given a negative opinion, even the court, I am talking about the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, you took him back to work at the time of Minister Hojs and Director Ola's ministry, although Director Olaj has already given a negative opinion. Minister, you didn't answer me before. You said you didn't know. A man who practically has an opinion on every matter and knows everything, for example, Bajrami, one of the most visible cases of SDS' recruitment to the Police, has no opinion and knows nothing about it. I ask you to reflect on what you have said and to provide me with a little more information, because the story is cutting out and it is certainly necessary to explain to the public how it is possible that, despite the tests necessary for someone to perform this role, Mr Bajrami should not resent me because I mention it, but it is a case which has been made public – if not, he would not have been exposed by name – to re-employ him; and even though Dr. Olay has already given a negative opinion. Mr. Secretary, at this time of your ministry, not only have we been able to tell you so many things and lies, but we've been able to tell you how to rule with decrees. You yourself have said several times today that there are several countries in the European Union and that this is not unusual when the government is actually taking measures related to the covet and not to the decisions. Someone in front of me explained to you nicely that this was actually happening in the countries of the European Union, but that virtually all the countries of the home have left this way, because this was done primarily at the beginning when urgent and rapid action was needed. Today, however, we have countries such as France, which in the course of the summer held a public debate on the UNB, as we say, about the law on communicable diseases. Not only did both homes in a political sense define themselves, but even the Constitutional Court gave its opinion. This is now an example of good practice, communication and involvement of decision makers and citizens in important decisions such as the law on communicable diseases. Something like this is impossible with us. Moreover, we are getting a criticism of why the opposition does not accept this, after Jani Möderndorfer has previously given you a very good explanation that this is your first task, the second time you came with this proposal, there was no one, except New Slovenia and SDS, who would support this proposal in a political sense; and there was no debate in the substantive sense. Dear Minister Hojs, I have previously shown you a collection of unconstitutional or unconstitutional or reserved proposals from the Constitutional Court that you have prepared. That's amazing. At the end of the term of office, after two years, we will get the entire newsletter, which will serve the students of law, how decisions are not taken and how it is not ruled in the democratic Republic of Slovenia, because that is what we are. And this is going to be an example for textbooks when they're probably going to be doing a degree or a master's degree, and you and your incompetence will be mentioned. And why are you doing this? In view of the fact that whatever they proposed in the National Assembly, they would be given baranctions for the votes of those five, six Members, who more mean to legalise their house at sea than to protect democracy on the one hand; or the representatives of both the Hungarian and Italian national communities, who do not care about the relations between the majority people and the minority people, they do not care about the level and state of democracy in Slovenia, but are important to those 20 million who have been mentioned in the media, in order to actually achieve those ambitions which they have set themselves, however, even though in this way they may harm any other national community which does not have the same rights as the two national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister, what will be in your eyes is what will be the legacy of your mandate. It is clear to me that you have your goals. These objectives are clearly defined and subordinated to the SDS and ambitions, not to yours, but to your superiors. Of course, you're a handy tool in this. When you gave an irrevocable resignation and, of course, when the President of the Government did not open your letter, you clearly received the biocommunic message that you were probably more allowed to do everything than anyone else. And that was one of many other lies when you said you were stepping down, and then you didn't back down. If a person stood by his own words to believe what you were supposed to believe, they would probably do so out of their own integrity and dignity. As has already been said, you have removed personnel that have not been politically defined, even though you like to expose them. I am talking about experts who have been in positions, such and different, in the Police, who are career policemen, who have mainly advocated credibility, independence, independence of the body, which should by definition be their branch of authority. You have moved them into the pitiless and opened the door for those police officers who are ready to take their position and submit to your direct orders and those that Mr. Olay, the doctor of the police, is so eager to carry out. Miha Kordiš in front of me mentioned the experience he has with Mr. Snow White. It is amazing that we practically have a tax fugitive standing over the police, over Furs and over the business, at least over the work of the SDS party, as Tone Krković publicly announced. It is a person who is quite controversial in his actions and his law enforcement authorities fail to cut him off with their own hand. Moreover, the same person is friends with many, including the President of the Government, and on the other hand, the least problem for the government was to get a register of citizens and citizens and send them a Christmas-new card, which is, of course, everything before that; and it has been, above all, a mass disturbance of citizens and citizens, that at such an important holiday as Christmas-new holidays, where they should focus on solidarity, on family values, on mutual values, on social values, on all that makes us a country and, above all, on what makes us as individuals and people, the President of the Government burdens us with such calls, which are all rather than good. Slovenia urgently needs changes, Minister of Respect. When we look at you, we see not only your actions, but how it should be different in Slovenia. Everything should be different, at least as far as your work is concerned. Instead of political police, we need a professional and independent police force, where there will be more dialogue instead of excessive force, where instead of fighting corruption and crime, the fight for freedom of assembly and freedom of expression in general will prevail. It is time that the leadership of the country, respected by all here present, take over the capable, honest and democratically committed people. Those who understand that differences can make us united as a nation and who understand that we can only get the best of all of us out of differences. Not only is it yours to think that only SDS is possible, of course with negligible assistants, such as the client of Nova Slovenija, who loses from day to day value and credibility, but I will not lose words about SMC, there must be great disappointment for Desus and the Slovenian National Party; and for me personally both representatives of the national communities are certainly the biggest disappointment. There is not much hope, as it has been said today, that the same ones I have counted will also be changed in their predictions and will continue to allow the police to subjugate themselves, even though criticisms and moods come from all winds, I am sure that with high electoral participation we will show everything that is not right in the country. Slovenia needs guidance as we once knew it. Slovenia must show warmth instead of fear, solidarity instead of segregation and connection instead of closure. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is no more time to discuss this government, because the time is running out, three more months, although we know very well from the experience that in these three months the situation in the country can still deteriorate significantly and that I am not talking about the time of the formation of the government. It is time, however, for us to agree on how we will lead Slovenia after the elections, how we will restore expertise and independence to the police, the trust that has been hard to gather and have always been among the top 3, 4 — together with the firefighters, and to give them back in some way what the police and police have lost, especially they deserve some decent respect that they once had. I'm sorry that you're serving, distinguished minister, right in the context of working with your subordinates, such as a reminder of the resignation of both unionists. I understand that from the point of view of repression, this seems quite acceptable to you, from the point of view of your party, but I tell you that it is far-reaching not; and it will certainly have a serious impact on further relations with you, and of course I hope not with your successor anymore. We were also received a few days ago by Minister Visiak. This is the minister who got caught up in the hearings; and in this context you then self-proclaimed to him when you said that you knew what was, of course, a contradiction not only between you and the Visionary, but also between the Visionary himself. Minister Vizjak spoke a few days ago about the fact that the recording was no longer authentic, while in January he acknowledged authenticity, and he also spoke of lack of authenticity a month earlier in October. So it's some kind of misunderstanding that's hard to follow. And all that citizens and citizens expect of us politicians is to create the conditions — not prosperity, but classic peace, unrequited peace and freedom, that people can express themselves and in the way they once felt free, but not be caught, that they can express their own self and form themselves in our society no matter where they come from, who they come from and what their social status is. I must say, at this interpretation, I'm a little surprised by the non-defence you've been receiving, Minister. I would expect your colleagues, especially from other political parties, even though they have announced that they will not support the interpretation, to be a little more prominent. For several hours now, I must say, there is a conversation — except with some individuals from the SDS party — mostly by the opposition and you. I'd like to, in general, but I don't believe in learning anything from it anymore. You have shown in the last two years that nothing will take you, you obviously have the thirst from Prime Minister Janša, that you can do and say what suits you, regardless of what is socially acceptable and what this society deserves. I truly hope and believe that, as we say, citizens and citizens deserve better governance of our country, we need a more cordial and friendly way of communicating with citizens and citizens and between citizens and citizens. Surely, the policy of hatred, the policy of instigation, the policy of lies must remove something more acceptable, something more receptive to the future and, above all, must seek freedom in all of us and between us. Minister, I will, of course, support the interpellation, and I would like everything to be different from this day forward. And if not from today, from April 24th, that a new wind will blow up and that citizens and citizens will feel simply free again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. It is now, of course, necessary to respond to this implementation. I do not know, Mr German, where you have been, but I must say that I am to all those who have discussed here, on this side, thank you, also Members of New Slovenia. Everyone poured quite a clean wine, not only in defense of me, but in general, Mrs Gregorčič, Mr Verbič and so on, so it seems that, despite you being in the hall, you did not quite listen. I think it's right that we're accurate. It's not about what you've just said here, when you said, you've given me a lot of lies and untruths. That's not true. You read to me and told me I was a liar. Not that I've told a lot of lies and non-truths, but you said I was a liar. This was encouraged by the fact that I said that you said that in such a different form I was always present at the OKC or the police, which brought you up in the luft. So now I've been looking for these documents. First of all, the document I presented in my previous interpretation, I will no longer show this because people already know that you are the first one to come out of this country after Milosevic. This is a video of a POP TV show where I asked you or said I didn't want to work with someone who calls me Ustasha. That's how you marked me back then. And you know what you said? No, you didn't say it wasn't true. You didn't say it wasn't true. You replied — and then you can move somewhere else. Look at the video and you'll see. So, the document. But if I go back to what raised you most. Writing in Del, 18. Ten. 2021, journalist Mitja Felc – if something is wrong, you have to turn to him, as at the evening, for example, when you took the evening off, these are those journalists who serve you faithfully and faithfully – is 18. 10. wrote: “The German, as a force, unusually highlighted the fact that, in all the protests that were violent, Minister Hojs was present at the police in such or other forms.” So now, whether he's lying, or whether you've misspoken yourself, I don't know, since you said it before – and next year, you may have misspoken yourself, but these are facts and those are your words. Who lies, who is a liar, and so on, should now be the viewers individually, because you will not, but the viewers can clearly create their own impression from these two documents. I'm glad you'll prepare that collection, as you said, if I understood you correctly, for law school students. The fact that they will make diplomas out of this, because we will finally be able to know that all diplomas also have diplomas, I am pleased that you have prepared this, because we will end up having people with diplomas; not just those who buy it or otherwise gain it. In the meantime, the director of the police also sent me a message. He wrote that what you are saying does not hold that he made clear to you on the Commission why and how he spoke to the members of the Commission that everything was clearly written in the minutes and that he does not actually have any problems; however, I think not only he, many expect or expect not only in this case, but also in others to reveal these records, Mr German. You are the President of the Commission, as I know, some have been asking you for quite some time to reveal something, but it is not, but what you are telling your truth, when you do not show the public the records of these meetings or what people have actually said there. And now, Mr. Bajrami, if I've got it right. In the meantime, I have asked myself what is the matter with this gentleman, and I have answered this question. I told you, I don't recruit the police, I don't know the case, I don't know why it's going. But it was interesting, and in the meantime I was answered, but given what you said before, it may be a more complete circle. You have already said that he was criminally charged and that the prosecution and everyone else in this proceedings have found that none of this is true; therefore, that he is fully absolved of all charges. Given who was then the head of the criminal police, that is, your members, current members, that is, the profession itself, the Director of the Criminal Police Department, the long-standing, current Mayor of Murska Sobota, a member of the SD, then we have a member of the underage, son of former police director Mr. Goršek, also extremely active on Twitter. If I were to start putting all these people in line, I don't know if I would finally figure out that you're actually the party that controls the police, so with all these horrible experts who are running for SD on the list right after they retire, it's amazing what kind of experts are doing. Obviously, it is one — at least so I can conclude — revenge on those who did not work according to the instructions of the quasi-scientists — future members of the SD party. How and why they hired this man, and I say again, I don't know. I don't even know what kind of tests he did, what security checks he had to do. I only know this, and I repeat this once again, that in the Police, I do not employ, nor do I see, who works there, all these procedures are led by the Personnel Service and the Director of Police. I decide or co-decision only in procedures where we employ people at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u142	Replica, colleague of Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I don't know which room in your basement came from the one you call your document, but it's a simple picture of the words I said. At the time, you were talking about who would want to live with Tanya Fajon, and I answered you, but I don't know what you're pinning this on me. I am well aware of the first experience with you, we sat on the Committee on Home Affairs and we discussed at the beginning of your mandate, when you were relatively fresh as Minister of the Interior, 37.a. At that time, there was a lot of talk about migrants who, during the course of John Janša, his government had just disappeared from the agenda, and remember how they threatened us in previous mandates. The practical number is more or less the same, but however, this problem is no longer on the agenda as it was in the governments of the past. At that time, Minister, in your position, you said that the proposed activation of Article 37a, which would mean that both unions would also support the help of the police at the border. At that time, we looked at each other and immediately realized that you were lying, for the union representatives immediately denied it. You're vehemently in the presentation at the time, and I've also warned you what you're going to do now that both unions have denied it. It was one of the first events when you were a minister, and you just laughed vehemently, as only you knew each other, then you didn't know how to wink your shoulder like you did in another lie. This lie is a little bigger because it has a direct influence when you say you're going to resign irrevocably, but you're not. That lie, which will contribute the most to charities, is certainly the one that you and my colleague Koprivec have branded as organizers of violent protests, which we have also filed a complaint or a client on behalf of the two of us. That's huge. Mr Grimes or a respected public, type in Google only – “Alesh Hojs Lies” and you will see some contributions, both video and textual, collections of your lies. I am in politics the second term in the National Assembly. I don't remember, even before I was a young enthusiast, I accompanied the political world, I don't remember that in a position of power, as responsible as the Ministry of the Interior, someone as reverently spoken in the form of a lie as you are. And that is why I say that our citizens and citizens must first and foremost be given greater respect because they deserve it. And it's not like we're going to understand your truths every day from your untruths. Dear Minister, it would really be time to blow up some new wind and not see you again as Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, President. Very nice greetings, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I must say that the situation we have in the country is so divided that it is you who are responsible for this because of the KUL opposition, the media and some judges. At the very least, this is the fault of Minister Aleš Hojs and the government led by Prime Minister Janez Janša, for what we hear in the last few days, when praises and congratulations come from the European Union summit, by the leaders of the European Union countries on the success of the Council's Presidency of the European Union at this time, see what you want and what you have done in Parliament itself in the European Union. You wanted to show our country as if the worst situation was going wrong, but the facts and results show otherwise. That is why ministers and this government are praised. Slovenia is also one of the safest countries in the world. And within the European Union, Minister Hojs has reached an agreement on migration, which shows that this government is really working and you want to show it the other way around. So that I'm not just going to go to the achievements and you're going to say again that we're only talking about achievements, I'm going to go to the interpolation itself, to certain key points and the content of this interpolation. Let's start with the Constitution. And we have at the outset, on the one hand, what you are trying to show, in Article 42, that the right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies is guaranteed, which holds – to peaceful assembly. Then, on the other hand, we have those who advocate the measures taken and we look positively at what the government has done for the state of Slovenia at the time of the epidemic, namely Article 34 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security. So, here's the key to security. And as soon as we speak of security, we must move on to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. And Article 3 of this Act states in the first paragraph: “Consistence of public order and peace is the functioning of a community which, by means of regulations and measures of state and other authorities, ensures that the conduct and dangers that threaten security and public order and peace are prevented when it threatens a community or an individual.” It's a community and an individual. And we're running into public interest. Public interest, what is the public interest? However, public interest is to prevent threats to human life and health, to ensure public order and peace, and to prevent or prevent risks to public safety and to property of greater value. So this is about what's of public interest to prevent danger to people's lives. And what, according to the messages coming through the various social networks, across the various channels that were obviously triggered both through the media and elsewhere in the background; and, of course, also publicly those who are not designated as organisers of the protests, the police have assessed that, in proportion to these, they have informed them that such measures and behaviours as we have followed them and as we have witnessed them. Especially why? Because we have seen that individuals and communities have been threatened. Why the police? Yes, of course, the Police Organization and Work Act, Article 2, clearly states that the police, as one of the actors in the Internal Security System, contribute to internal stability and security in the Republic of Slovenia by carrying out their tasks. So she did exactly what she had to do in accordance with the law. Now, what was evident about the water cannon, gas supplies, and how children’s playgrounds were incinerated, and how the elderly suffered when they found themselves in this quay. I have already said this in one debate, and I will repeat it again, as a mother would never, ever take her child to the scene. Never. For his own safety, for his respect for life. But not to take advantage of it, how it was all contaminated. You're good at everything, but look at things from the other end, not just the way you want it. If the protests, as they had always been, were foretold and there were signs of what the protestors were planning to do, because they also wrote publicly, then those who did not want to be in that footnote, I don't think they had anything to look for there. But those who have decided to do so must accept the consequences. The police were just doing what they had to do, so they said they were protecting people's lives. Then we go to politics that the minister wants to politicize the police or this government. And you mention the controversial appointments and the fact that the directors of police administrations and police station chiefs have received decisions on the termination of the situation. Probably those who have ever tried to work in the public sector and had someone who is not 10 years old and more in a position, so for life, we can say, and even if it is possible not to perform tasks in accordance with the way and direction of leadership in terms of development, in terms of appropriate competences, you will probably ask yourself then and you will say yes, but with this is really difficult to work with. And if this man is your superior and you can't possibly retire him, not move him, for God's sake, because I think we're actually doing the Republic of Slovenia harm. [[…]] Ask yourself whether any entrepreneur in his company might have someone for life who would sit there just quietly and not have a suitable education, not even the knowledge and competences required by the police today if we want to have a modern police force. And that's what made this change. That's why. Because we need to make a move if we want development, if we want something to change, that we can say – we have taken a step forward. That's when we have to make some changes. But those who don't hope to make any changes, then I wonder what they're doing. And in this connection, I will continue to link myself to the operation of the union and to the president of the union, and I might say this with regard to the statement made by Rocco Cvetka, when he stated that the law suggests that these criteria are proposed by the Director-General of Police, but in public it is indicated that the current impressions between the Ministry and the police are such that the impression is growing that the Director-General of Police does not exist or that there is virtually no profession anymore. That's an assumption. And I wonder if the union protects the police or protects only the leading personnel. Because if it only protects the leading frame, it's very wrong. I've been talking to the cops, and it's not exactly the state you'd like the proponents to present. Many police officers support these changes and are grateful that changes will finally take place in those who did not want to withdraw in any way and prove themselves that they may no longer be able to perform this function. Perhaps sometimes, when they were put into that function so many years ago, they also performed well, but a man of years is likely to get tired or have no more motivation; and then it is necessary to leave room for another frame, one who is willing to give something more away from himself. This obsession with the union and now resentment is not exactly in place, nor is it appropriate that it wants to trade itself as a victim if the ministry wants to lay down some rules of action. The rules of action in the sense that if you decide to be president of the union, be the president of the union. But you can't be the president of the union, and you can't get any more addenda from the task of those who carry out police duties. Things are being arranged, and this disturbs the union and disturbs those who have been for so many years, for many years, enjoying some ratings. And now, first of all, I will thank the Minister for that explanation, because what he said about the participation of veteran organisations, he said because I asked him because it is really absurd – and to help you do so, ask yourself what you are helping to do, the opposition – that at the celebration, at the ceremony on the day of independence and unity in the Municipality of Nova Gorica is among the speakers, it is good that he was not a festive speaker, among the speakers he was also the director of the Nova Gorica Police Administration and Vice-President of the Northern Association of Police Veterans. The Vice-President of the North Veterans Association really wondered when the director of the police administration said only a few sentences, and in those few sentences he expressed all the involuntaryness, although unfortunately perhaps three quarters of the participants in the hall didn't even know why he said that if I had to think another time about what he wanted to say with it. But since he's been in this job for 22 years, since 1999, he's probably offended now. And through this possibility, because he had the opportunity to speak before the citizens and citizens of the Municipality of Nova Gorica, he poured out his grief, which is not professional. It is certainly not professional for you to use it in such a way that even people do not know what it is; it is even less so that you speak the untruths, because the Minister has previously explained nicely the cooperation between veterans and other residential organizations, that the police, after amending the law, “co-operates with veteran and other housing organizations whose activities are important to preserve the historical memory of police operations, to complement and train police officers and to promote the profession of police and to enable them to use the immovable and special circumstances of the state's movable property. The possibilities and modalities of cooperation shall be defined in the rules adopted by the Minister. A specific way of cooperating with an individual organisation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be defined by agreement,” and that is the essence. Not what the director of the Nova Gorica Police Administration has been deceiving when he said that now it is the last such event that we should enjoy the last such event when the Police Orchestra and the Veteran Organisation and the Municipality of Nova Gorica participate. This is what you do with your statements, with the media that supports you, because there are a lot of them that support you, you encourage a lack of truth in the environment, which is not only limited to Ljubljana and the environment, but also wider. Maybe the last thing I'd tell you is that the whole world is sharpening action against the crown. And even though the whole world is sharpening, somehow you would have gone back and said that this government is again responsible for this situation, this minister is taking too hard measures. I can only commend this minister, because I know he was in the first wave when we had problems crossing the border, this minister jumped to help because he knew and understood the problems. Because we, as in other border towns, have a lot of people driving to neighbouring Italy and to work and to school; and the minister was available whenever help was needed. And I think that because of this work and the work of the whole government we have nothing to read, you can only read those statements, as you yourself said in the debate, that immediately after April 24, the contested appointments will be corrected, and you have told yourself how you work and how you are used to working, so you will correct and set up immediately, immediately, your personnel, what you want to see that this government did when the mandate came. However, it has been said many times and I will not repeat it because it is not now a topic of how many personnel and when, at what time frame you made them at the time of your term of office. I must say that my support is with the minister and he will have it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Replica, Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, today in public, if after the elections it happens that the Social Democrats are headed by the Ministry of the Interior, I give you the floor that there will be no room for politics. What we're going to do is we're going to return the police to the police, the internal personnel, the educated, capable, not the ones who are loyal to politicians, not the left and the right, but the police, the authorities, must be independent, professionally subdued and independent. We, as long as we hold this position, will regain the autonomy and reputation of the police, just as it once was. I give you my word. We want her to be professional and independent again instead of using excessive forces to re-use the power of dialogue, as before. And as far as your seeming support, which you like to mention so much, is that you have received from the police, respected, I don't know, but we live in the same world. Let me remind you that there were similar opinions about the water referendum at the time when you thought you would succeed. A very similar climate not only lays among the police, but also among the population. You'll be surprised in April when you suddenly find yourself in the clearing and the real picture will actually show up without these pumps each other, how successful you are, how people love you. If I cross the line when the cops and the cops recognize me, you know how many words of encouragement they give me than never in my life. And I'm not coming from the police force. Or police officers, from ordinary to slightly higher rankings, if we have a chance to meet, will immediately seize the opportunity to say how impossible the situation is on the force. People who have created a career, not because of political connections, because you always have to justify links to politics to justify your own actions. To justify your own actions of subjugation and repression of the police. But the cops, I hope to say as much as possible, can't see you anymore. That's the truth. Because I see because I perceive how they approach me. I think you'll be surprised when they vote. Not just cops and cops, but citizens and citizens. I am sure that the vast majority of police officers do not agree with your policy at all and are extremely disappointed with the way the police are managed, which in fact puts police and police officers in an unfavourable position with regard to citizens and citizens. And they meet citizens and citizens on a daily basis. Because of me, you can get carried away. I'm just telling you how we feel about police leadership, which is absolutely critical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. He's got the motioner first, then the minister. Matthew T. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you. Matjaž already said something. Mrs Zavadlav Ušaj, look, so deep in all the times of society probably no government has ever been recruited in the history of Slovenia alone. I don't think that we know the case, and, of course, a special law had to be adopted to make it possible. I don't know how you can even pretend in here that it's not like that. It's the same tactic again. You're taking pictures of us poor people doing everything by the letter of the law, and you're doing the same thing. No, the previous governments have not performed so many personnel tsunamis. Remember the end of the first Janša government in 2008, when Borut Pahor performed as Prime Minister of the Government. We all jumped into the luft because he just said he wouldn't change the personnel set by the Yangtze government. It's clear that when you get here, you're doing everything you can. That was Borut Pahor's mistake, because then it was one of the origins of all the problems in the ministries and so on, but let's leave it now. Second thing. You said, as a mother, I would never take my children to an area like this. Yeah, how would people know?Oh, my God! No one has informed the people of Ljubljana that this will happen. The decree or decision adopted on 4 October in the middle of the night, just before midnight, was published in the Official Journal on 5 October, after its adoption. And entered into force for the same day and the next day. And what did the government say in this decision? “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has ordered the police to restrict or prohibit movement in areas, places or public places where this is necessary to prevent serious violations of the public order between 5 October 2021 and 6 October 2021 due to the high likelihood of serious violations of the public order in Ljubljana, Bled and Presoles near Kranj.” Even if people came to this conclusion in time, what — should we be at home all day? Nowhere was it determined which area, the police did not inform the inhabitants and residents of Ljubljana to stay at home, to avoid the Slovenian road, to avoid the Market of the Republic, etc. There weren't any of those notifications. And when you're telling me that people should stay at home, I mean, right now I can't erase the image of an older man with a bag from one of the shops, with a handkerchief through his nose that goes through those tear gas mists. You're hoping to tell that gentleman - yes, why weren't you at home? It's overturned. This was one of the aspects with which, of course, you still want to prevent protests. It's a method, typical, it's one of the scary methods. Secondly, what we can read today is that the State's Attorney's Office should actually finally file its first action against the organisers of the protest for the recovery of the costs incurred by police protection. This is another aspect of preventing and prohibiting protests. What the minister was predicting and asking how it could be done. This is a scary tactic of the Ministry of the Interior, but you want to prevent spontaneous protests that express a critical view of the government. And this is also an abuse of the State's Attorney's Office, if you ask me, with no evidence of who the organizers are, what the actual costs are, is basically simple, you're playing. And here I think the essence of your rule and this intimidation of Ervin Hladnik Milharčič has hit very well in one column in the Journal. And now I'm going to quote one passage, start with sarcasm about this paying back police protection costs. He says: “The idea is genius. Saddam Hussein didn't even think of that. He was an Iraqi who disagreed with him, shot him in the head, but he paid for the bullets from his own. Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak sent the paramilitary units el amn el Merquez to every protest, beating everything that walked the road and throwing them into blue trucks. Some of them got locked up, shot up, hung up. The costs were high, but the president paid them from the state treasury. His successor El Sisi will cover all the costs of repression on his own behalf. In Iran, they have special motorist demonstration units. One cop drives a motorcycle, the other one's got a burner in his hands. A hundred together, he drives them down Azada Avenue, beats left and right. Costs will be settled by the State Council for the promotion of morality and the prevention of sinfulness. Israeli security units are throwing everything against Palestinian protestors, from tear gas cans to explosive bullets. They're charging nothing. All over the world, the rebellion of power is free. You pay them with beatings, tears, coughing, imprisonment and execution. Only the Chinese are charging the inmate's execution to his family. He has to pay the price of a bullet. Everything else is at the expense of the state." And that's where your twisted logic comes in. Of course, as a European country, you cannot afford to act as some kind of Middle Eastern dictatorship, but because of your autocratic aspirations, you are so turned over that you go so far as to think about how you will charge people. And if this isn't over, then I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Replica, I heard. Elena Zavadaw Ears, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u151	Yes, I have to take a call because, again, Comrade Vatovec said how people would know there would be protests. After all the media, just like that, I wrote to myself, exactly as “how people would know” that there would be protests. It was not necessary to wait for the Government's decision because it was clearly known because those who were secret organisers who were not supposed to be an organiser but who called for protests were publicly aware of where the protests would be. And probably if there was any indication of where the protests would be, then the police would not go to the other side of Ljubljana, they would probably go to where the protests were predicted. It's a ruse that they didn't know. Of course they knew. If they asked me in Nova Gorica, of course they knew. That's one. The second is, otherwise I will refer to my German colleague, we have never said that no one would be untrained, but a trained staff, a German colleague, a trained staff. And I don't have to cross the border, I talk to police and police officers in Nova Gorica and they support these changes. I don't have to cross the border to have someone tell me what the situation is. I don't know what the limit is, because at the borders, at least from Nova Gorica, there are no cops in Italy. What a limit, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Proposer, Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u153	For a short time, honourable Member, Dr. Olaj, Travner, Jurič – these are former, former director, Urbas, director of the Department of Criminal Police, these are the personnel, your, capable, all four have received internal security procedures in various periods. So, three police directors with the current, both predecessors, and the Director of the Crime Police Department, you're talking about these personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u155	I mean, you'll read the magnetogram, Mrs. Zavadlav Ushaj, I didn't say they didn't know there would be protests, but they didn't know that in broad daylight there would be a barricaded city center with a prepared tear gas and a water cannon. This is my point and also in line with how the law is written, given the types of decisions involved in the activation of Article 9, this should be adopted early enough. The government, however, knew when the European Union's summit would be. Or did they find out one day earlier and they said, "Oh, now we have to take 9 quickly? Article?Oh, my God! Even if the protests that took place a week earlier were to assess this, they could have taken this decision a week earlier. No, it is accepted by the Government one day before, a few hours before it enters into force, and then uses it without informing the residents of the city center or anyone who would intend to come to Ljubljana that day and so on. We all knew that there would be protests, but we didn't know that the police would be gassing children's playgrounds and passersby leaving the shops, kindergartens in central Ljubljana in the middle of the day at 3:30. Violeta used to show you these pictures, children’s playgrounds — full of tear gas. I mean, really, is that what you're defending?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you. Very short. Mr. Vatovec, what you said before is true, of course. You said why would we, we've never changed the frame before or ever before. [[…]] Why would I do that? Why would you change your frame? If the head of the crime police is a man who, after he ceases to be the head of the criminal police, is running for SD. I don't understand why you'd change your frame. These terribly independent experts the next day, when they stop being in the police, are running for SD client, and I can list them for you, I don't know, 30 if you want. That is why I think it is right for us to do a translation of what Mr German has said. So he said they'd be setting up experts, I don't know what kind of people as soon as they're in power. In the translation, it's clear what they're going to set up. For example, they will appoint a person to do virtually nothing in his mandate when he retires and will run for SD. These are the candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u158	Replica, Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u159	Minister, you really have nothing to brag about. I'll tell you in two words. You're talking about the mayor of the Municipality of Murska Sobota. The mayor was elected twice as mayor, first appeared on the LDS list in political circles and later appeared on the SD list and was also elected mayor. In Murska Sobota there is an extremely respectable personality and a very successful mayor, you see in Murska Sobota exceptional economic development and people are very pleased. What you don't understand is that these people made their professional path and became politically active later. But what you do, respected, is people who have been in internal security procedures, it does not escape you; while someone who plays an honorable, very important role, the director of the criminal police, and a very important role in the police, later in the autumn of his life decides that he is still healthy enough to be able to do something socially beneficial, and you would cut them off. I'll tell you one more thing very clearly. Not only will such ones as Jevšek, after the next elections be significantly more, the police will elect SD, the respected minister, will not only be Alexander Jevšek and the son of Goršek whom you mentioned; by the way, Mr Goršek was the director of the police during Katarina Kresal, so in some ways he was more of the LDS's quota, but no matter what, it doesn't matter. On the one hand, I am talking about people who are extremely respected in their environments, both geographically and professionally. On the other hand, you have your personnel, who have practically all been in internal security check or in certain procedures. To conclude, you will be surprised how many internal affairs employees and how many police officers and police officers of all ranks will vote for the SD in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u161	No, we won't be surprised, Mr. German, we already know that. We know how they vote all these years, so we won't be surprised.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you, President of the National Assembly, for your word. Honourable Minister of the Interior in the Republic of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues, especially all those accompanying today's meeting! Our fellow Member, Elena Zawadlav, who comes from Nova Gorica, has just written a police officer telling the truth. I don't even know where our fellow Member is at home. Colleagues and colleagues, today we have the ninth interpretation in this short term of the government of Janez Janša and at a time when Slovenia concludes the Presidency of the Council of the EU and at a time when much praise comes from the leaders – I mean those who lead the European Union – to the presidency of this government, led by President Janez Janša, of course with the entire ministerial team. If we remember in the past how many fertilisers have been poured in six months, how much effort has been made to defile our policies, our leaders in the European Union, but failed. It is interesting, however, that these praises come from the side from which today's interpolation is proposed. In short, colleagues and colleagues on the left side, in the opposition, you have succeeded in bringing some people to the streets in the past, but you have not been able to prevent the actual work of that party, the European parties to which you belong, to tarnish this government that has carried out this presidency. Of course, this applies both to the whole government and to Minister Aleš Hojs. I'd hardly talk about him because I haven't known him for so many years. But I know something, what I know from the past, from previous services, that he is working, that he is an expert, that of course he wants everything good to the Republic of Slovenia, and that he does a lot of work in his work, and that he also requires it from others. This is also what I see today in the position of this Minister, the esteemed Mr Hojs, in his role as Minister of the Interior. Let me remind you, since we are already at the ninth interpretation, and I think we have already heard this before today, and it is only right to refresh the memory of our citizens and citizens of how Minister Hojs came to this position in the first place. The mandate began, our mandate – I say this several times in the National Assembly, it will be completed in five months – started three and a half years ago, of course without Minister Hojs. Minister Hoys was in a completely different line of work, probably not even thinking when he left work or went to work, he ever saw or met a cop. But on January 27th, in winter, the government, led by Sharca, resigned. Marjan Sarec said: I walk around Slovenia a lot, I meet many citizens and citizens with many problems, but with this government I cannot solve anything, so I resign. That's when you're a fellow magician. Dejan Židan, who was president of SD, says the following: The easiest thing to do is to let the problems go. Alenka Bratušek says: In the most difficult health crisis in the history of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of health, we have done nothing, very little or nothing. Today's proponent is also Levica, who was a super-coalist party, has already done so a few months earlier. This, of course, is a second interpretation for Interior Minister Hojs today. Above all, the shedding of so many untruths, so many things that you expect to fall on fertile ground with citizens and citizens, but I assure you that this effort is going to waste. I was recently in front of a shopping mall and they walked into it, I think, three guys, two girls, years old, I've evaluated somewhere between 10 and 12 years old, but what I want to say -- how carefully they put on masks, disinfected their hands and went to the store. I have to admit that I admired this and that I was very proud of this painting, of these acts. On the other hand, almost a year and a half, when I've been following some of the policies that you've called on people on the streets, you've been riding bikes with no masks, one in this national assembly, you've even ripped these masks off your faces, in short, doing things that I think are separating our citizens and citizens. I have to admit, you've made it to some point. It comes to my mind several times as if, when I spoke earlier, when you started your mandate as if you were a crew on a plane and after a few kilometres of travel, you informed the command tower that you would agree that you would not be able to continue operating this aircraft. Then you stayed on the plane, and now all this time you're calling this new captain, the president of the government, and all the ministers not to drive properly. Understand who has to. Dear Minister, this interpretation does not yield any fruit of that word. Certainly, respected applicants do not fall to fertile ground; however, I would like this work to be done by the distinguished Hojs, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, to insist on this path. I am sure that not all acts have always fallen to fertile ground, as have ours here in the National Assembly. Every man who does, even when he makes a mistake or a mistake. In this difficult situation, citizens and citizens do not blame you for this. In short, I want to be on behalf of those — and the cops don't meet me, they don't call me wrong. I must admit that in this mandate, when Mr Hojs is performing this function, no one has turned to me, but I hear much praise that police officers have respected salaries, that they have modern vehicles, good equipment. And if anyone thinks that those two people who are in a union who no longer have a job will have an impact on the development of the police in the Republic of Slovenia, it is a mistake. Minister, let your successful work continue until the end of this term; of course, I am sure that we will meet in other mandates – we as Members and you as Minister in this position or in another. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Andrej Černigoj, Brane Golubović, Mojca Škrnjar are being prepared. Go get Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. Good evening, Minister. I am pleased that my name has already come a day in this debate; and I think it is this debate and we will reopen it. I think it's a perfect plastic indicator of what Aleš Hojs is as minister. The Minister accused me of organising some protests in the Rippers, which of course is not true, but it doesn't bother me so much, it bothered me more in this minister's replica of the debate, although my colleague Luke Mesca did. That he said that after half of Zasavje I had recruited bandits and hooligans to come to break this protest, destroy and harm and harm and so on. And I think that this minister's answer perfectly shows what this minister is and what the government is, for which he speaks and works. He sees how he treats all citizens and citizens, especially those who may not have a SDS membership card or who are not electoral supporters of the current, current government clicks. The minister was just lying, lying that we broke the Rippers, that we broke, I don't know, the Labour House, and handed it over. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] – Minister, I have listened to you and the magnetogram can read to you – and other judgments, okay, and other judgments. And now, Minister Hoys, we've been suspended and intertwined twice. We don't need a minister who gives judgment, we don't need a government that gives a judgment that judges people as supporters of the government and hooligans and bandits. Bandits, by the way, are the tummine used by the German Nazi occupation to counterfascists of that time. We do not need a minister and a government that divides people into supporters and good, obedient citizens and all the others who are bandits. These bandits, by the way, are people who see the work of this government as unsuccessful, more than 80%. At this time, when we are as a public health society and as a result still in a cramp, in a trial, we need leadership, for the first time, an adult, a mature leadership; and we need guidance that connects, which is capable of communicating, which is capable of solving the epidemic to communicate. What we see in the government of Janez Janša and Minister Aleš Hojs here is the most plastic, but the diametric opposite is. Nothing, Minister, in your work is connected to people. You broke it in two years, the most successful, colossal, you broke the connection between the people and the police. The police now estimate only less than 50% positive or show some kind of affection. For the first time in history, the two unions, who usually stand a little on other shores, have been united in a communication against leadership. You broke this communication with the police – the government, you marked the cops with lazy people; and vice versa, the government – the police. Not to mention how colossally you have torn the relationship between politics, between the government and the people. Colossal. People have never been so negative about the work of all state institutions, that I say, political institutions – from the government, parliament and everything. And we don't need this primary school communication at this time, this passion. We in the Rippers - if I started with the Rippers, I will continue with the Rippers – we call it in the Rippers – the Strattmohar. So funny. Strattmohar is usually the one who is not most desirable in society; and it was you, Aleš Hojs, who produced this government as the leader of this group as a covider, as the chief communicator, as the chief epidemiologist, as the Minister of the Interior, as the chief police officer and all that. And if not otherwise, because of this basic lack of communication skills, you are not able or not competent to perform this function, which you are, I am pleased to say, you have already found in proportion at the beginning of your term of office. But then, to use your government's terminology, I don't know, maybe the Prime Minister broke his balls and then you didn't want to continue or keep your spine long enough to continue your resignation. That's my main review. But of course, I must quickly touch on one particular case which is in support of what I have said so far, which speaks of your government's attitude towards the police, the involvement in the police work, the operational work of the police. And today this protest has already come to the surface several times on October 5. For the first time in the history of Slovenia and the Slovenian police and many protests, the political summit has not only been staffed, not only caused some controversy or some systemic nonsense within the police. For the first time, the political summit of the country entered the very operational centre of the police, which controls and gives the command how the police should react in concrete cases, in concrete actions. And if we're saying that this unfortunate October 5th, at five o'clock in the afternoon, the police flooded the playgrounds and Tivola, and so on, they did it on someone's command. The police are acting by order. And the orders come from the operating center, from the command room. And who was in the command room at the time? Kangler, Speaker, Mahnik, Olai and Hoys. That's it. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, then it's a lie, Minister. And Mr Olay, the Director-General of Police, when we spoke to him, gave us a lie. Now you decide who's lying to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u167	Yes, Mr. Siter, it's necessary here, obviously you've been listening poorly. I know what Mr Olay said and what he didn't say, but this, I think, has been explained ten times. At OCC on 5. 10. There was no one – from Mahnič, the Speaker, me, so no one was there, no one. Do you understand now what nobody is? At the Center for Protection and Protection, where were those people who were in charge of protecting all these presidents and so on, we arrived at about 7:30 A.M., Mahnic, Predaliè and I. At about this hour, Olay and Kangler arrived at the OKC. So we have 2 locations, we have 2 delegations, if you want, no one gave any orders. Orders on how the action is conducted were issued by a designated on-call commander of the operation or action. None of us did. And the police have told you this many times, and they have repeatedly explained to you who gave instructions, who gave orders, and so on. But you don't understand, you don't want to understand, because it's easy to bark at the moon and just keep wasting your lies, that I've been deciding when someone's gonna get gassed, that I've given an order, where these bullets are launched, that the police director has given this order and similar nebulosis. But you can't tell that and you'll keep on saying that about what you said from the start, it's not true that I was saying that you were breaking up there. [[Incomprehensible]] I said that you came there for the purpose of breaking up; and that luckily there was the police, who, like in Ljubljana, successfully prevented them. Whether you were Rippers or Rippers or I don't know what it's really called, you're going to ask your obstetric colleagues. My colleagues in Trbovlje told me that there were very few people in the crowd of arsonists and smokers, I would say. So you pulled them from somewhere else. And of course, I never said that they were all bandits or thugs. But I'm going to repeat that those who throw dice at the National Assembly who throw dice at ambulances who throw dice at police officers who set the garbage disposals on fire, so that I don't list them, I can start showing them again, and that's what they are, even though it doesn't suit you. Here's the whole order, so it looked like a police action in Ljubljana. The yellow arrow is used to mark people who, from the railway to the Celovska road, threw into police torches, stones, and so on. That was the 5th, these are the peaceful protests you're talking about. And this is a people who, in fact, as you said, are peacefully protesting, and they don't want anything. I've already shown this today, a masked man with a cube in his hand throwing a cube at a police intersection. By the way, the water cannon was not the first time, but the second time it was used as well as damaged. On November 5th, he was injured by hooligans or bandits, as you wish. This is one lady who has also prepared – whether she will throw it herself or give it to someone – a granite cube in her hands. She probably didn't bring it home to put it in the sandbox for the kids to play. At least I'm assuming not. Let's say this is an attack by the torches of these peace-loving protesters against the police. This can be shown here almost as long as it's been going on, so there's a half-four, and I think they've calmed down somewhere along the coast or this, for example, is the burning of police cars. By the way, a couple of police tires were crossed that day. That can be said, as I said, almost as long as it is. And this is the case I was most interested in in downtown. This is an example of usurpation, or attempt to stop or prevent a delegation from coming to the hotel. And I was wondering how it could be that the police made such a mistake in this case, if I called it that, but the boys responded nicely that it was simply not possible to make so many security plans that they could predict all possible, potential incidents in advance. But of course, as soon as this happened, they used that plan that was prepared for such cases, if anything, if something like this happened, completely professionally and as it was necessary to secure the car, led to a return journey to a place where he could continue his journey the second time. These are, say, traffic signs used in order to, I would say, hurt them or perhaps even more – use them in an attempt at violence against the police. This is a rocket flying towards a police water cannon. This is a hit-and-run water cannon by this rocket. It's called fire at the top of a police vehicle. And all of this you call a peaceful protest. Nonviolent crowd, peaceful protests. God forbid the police are protesting or trying to establish some sort of order. But even though I suppose or think that you wanted this war to be so, it is said that you wanted, personally, the Left, the Social Democrats, all of this KUL opposition wanted the police not to be able to protect these protests properly this day, because the police reacted professionally because your professional partners also explained that the police were adequately prepared in this case. Even so, unlike last week, when we should not have allowed it, the police should not have allowed these thugs to break into the northern perimeter, and I was as sure after the break-in into the northern bypass, even these people from gentlemen who, as it is said, even wrote police legislation, said that this time it was not the same as the police reacting as they did that they were prepared to do. And those numbers you were talking about, I think you even said too low, you know. This day in Ljubljana was not just a thousand police officers; this day it was actually necessary to activate police officers from many special units across Slovenia, in order to adequately protect this area. Even all these people, as it is said, have done their work properly, have been properly rewarded for this and, in fact, it is difficult to listen to this timeless scheming of how you do not know who the organizer is, how these peaceful protests were, how the police overstepped powers and blah, blah and so on. It was easy for the police to do their job well in this case, so that, in my opinion, one of your plans was to destabilize this country even more, to make an even greater mess. So not only have you always opposed all the measures related to the epidemic, but in some ways you have always wanted or you want to go through all the time with non-cooperation, by excluding yourself, by not putting up with the fact that you are no longer in power, in fact introducing discord, unrest, intolerance among people. But these are actually the qualities that your predecessors have been building faithfully over the decades; and in fact it is hard to expect that now, at one point this ideology has turned in a completely different direction. After what you say, when this government is no longer in power, how will you, I don't know, Mr. German will replace everything, LMŠ will also replace everything, you will – I don't know what you already said – with bayonets drive those people who have an apartment they don't have to vacuum in 15 minutes, you will confiscate the property or seize the apartment and so on. [[…]] But it's particularly worrying about what you wrote in that part of the interpolation that relates to the fact that I've been silent about something because you wrote that the legislation is adapting to the legalization of the work that was done prematurely. I've never heard anything like this before. So you're talking about the power to commit crimes, and then you change the law so that those crimes you committed back then are no longer crimes. That's the one you made up. Yeah, unless you think you're going to confiscate the apartments and then you're going to adopt the law that these apartments are lawfully confiscated. And we have something similar around these houses -- a well-known SD client -- when we don't actually know now whether the house that they bought was, or whether they replaced it, or whether they paid for it, or if they bought that previous property, then they replaced it. In fact, we are not yet in the clear, as in the case of a diploma, we have not yet seen an account where we would have seen that they paid for it. At least they didn't show it, it wasn't written: payment of the purchase for blah blah, address, customer SD, payment, or I don't know what they were before, there were some heirs, I don't know what they were called, the United List, something like that. I also did not see such an account shown for Tomšič, who is said to have replaced this villa with Tomšič's for the villa they now live in. We haven't even seen the receipt yet. I don't know how this legal system is with SD Lauf's client. And finally, if someone's pleading that someone has run for LDS, and then only later has he come to the SD party, read his interview with the same gentleman's candidacy, which I will not mention, and Mr. German is. He said very well at that time that those who were for the LDS gave me votes, I have no doubt that they will now give me those votes when I run for the SD party. Yes, of course, because it's a bonded vessel, and the LDS collapses, I don't know, really, and then the list of Zoran Jankovic is created, and part of the list goes to Levico, and then again a little SD and so on. It's a binder, where actually the voices inside this left are just overflowing. And as some have already mentioned today, I understand your concern as well as your anxiety, especially because apparently on the left side there are some new customers. By the way, you've been attacking New Slovenia all along today. New Slovenia gets almost 2% every month after recent polls, so now I don't know what's bothering you. [[advertising from the hall]] Do you mind if Nova Slovenija participates properly in the coalition and therefore has 2% more each month than I have read today in front of Alenka Bratušek? I obviously believe that this concern is severe, great, that it's always bigger because, as you've determined, in four months, the elections are held. And of course, we must all or to a large extent present ourselves to potential voters by what we have done. And we have a long list of things we've done. A long list of things we've given people, a long list of things, why people under this government live better, a long list, where we'll show what we've managed to keep, despite this severe health crisis, from economic growth, the lowest unemployment rate, what we've distributed to people. Yeah, yeah, we split something up, too. And you, your government, for example, saved the banks and distributed five billion to save two or three Taiwanese banks and to make gentlemen laugh today from what balcony we're doing here; we gave it to people in the form of vouchers, in the form of higher pensions. We didn't increase our pension by 6 euros or as it was then, I think you were fighting whether we're going to be 6 euros or we're going to be 12. And I didn't hear very well at the time whether you're talking about percentages or euros, and then I realized you're talking about euros. That you argued whether we would increase 6 euros or increase 12 euros. And then I think you're at the end of 6. Look, we're gonna put all this stuff on the table. I'm sure people will recognize what we've done for them. And most of all, it seems to me that what Mr German has done before, when he has accused everyone, even the representatives of both national communities, of how he dares and how he must not vote. This has not actually happened in the National Assembly. I remember your Member, your Member, because he wasn't yours, was a member of the national communities, this gentleman's Italian last name was B Badelli? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, that one. Yeah, you know, a lot of last names, but I can't remember everyone anymore, I'm sorry. And then a lot of people don't know all the last names. This gentleman has always voted with you; but no one has ever said anything was wrong. He was elected on the Italian National Community list, apparently on his left hand, and he always supported the one proposed by the left. “So what,” the President of the State would say. But that's why no one here has ever said that I don't know what it is, but the traitor of the national community doesn't know that they deserve other representatives, but I don't know what nonsense you've been talking about. I have to say in person that I have very good experience working with him. Every time we talked, we tried to do as much as possible for this Italian national community, especially at the time when it was necessary to regulate the crossings between borders, when it was necessary to ensure what tests they must have. All of it. I have to say, we talked, too, I don't know, but once every 14 days we tried to work things out. I don't see any problem with you working with everyone right, and of course you're trying to do the most for people to do. And you're doing something different. And you're shutting it down. Your electoral program is how we won't and who we won't be with. It's your election program. What we're not gonna do, what we're not gonna do, what we're not gonna do. Such electoral programmes have, according to my people in Slovenia, become tired and I believe that they will reward integration, reward those who want to participate, those who have already participated in this government, those who are entering a new policy and are talking about the integration that they give into their electoral programme and have put together. Unlike those who enter politics, as it seemed, they wave with their right hand and some of us are again coming out of this country, just like you or 30 years ago Milošević.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u168	Replica, first Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, you're giving in or how do you feel, huh? [[…]] Because what you've been doing now, it's not like any other thing. It's not an interpretation, it's an interpretation of some of your wishes. You're talking about the Left. I don't know how long they've been in position. There are other mandates in Parliament. And they haven't been to the government once. You're talking about the villa, because of the words spoken by your president, did the Minister lose his place in the first degree? [[…]] Just wait one more minute, please. Don't leave, please. First you talk about everything else, except the interpolation, and now you're leaving. [[advertising from the hall]] You have to eat, I understand. We're just like you, just trying to stick to the frameworks that make us here today, and you're wasting something – Bandelli, Battelli, Baluli, nobody understands what you're trying to tell us right now. I apologize, we have an interpellation of the Minister of the Interior, who is already uncreditable in his own self, but what has happened now, I apologize to the viewers and the viewers, the Members and Members, that is the degradation of rhetoric, debate, dialogue, interpretation, the National Assembly and institutions. If not for today such a broad debate throughout the day, I would still ask the President to limit this debate, because talking about everything else, except the content that we are here today, is, I don't know, frightening and, on the other hand, in some way disrespectful to all of us. We are just like the Minister here because of the lack of the minister or the criticism we wish to place on the Minister, of course, in the hope of convincing anyone else in the National Assembly, who has any integrity whatsoever, not to support an individual such as the Minister of the Interior. But actually with these, I'm not going to say nebulos, but the nonsense that the Minister is explaining, we can't even hold a red or an interpolation dialogue or the content of the interpolation that we're preparing for today and we're here today. I am actually asking the Minister to be more consistent in his deliberations, because what he is doing now makes no sense. And I'm also going to conclude that I'm not going to be anything like him. I give my word to my colleague Primož Siter. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Get Siter, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, colleague German and president of the National Assembly. Wow, that's my answer, thank you, Minister, actually flattering me with your replicas. At first, you appointed me president of the Trubwell protest, and then apparently everything that happened at the Ljubljana protests flew in my direction. I was now sincerely waiting for an anti-Rio Tinto protest from Belgrade and perhaps another Berlin, Paris and so on. But the minister, we're talking about police violence, we're talking about police violence, which has grown brutally since you sat on top of the police -- hand to heart. And sit in a way that interprets reality in your own way, invents protest organizers, invents dangers, reads from the magnetogram immediately – “Siter organizes these protests. He was the one who came with a group of bandits or what should I call it, those who were essentially breaking through the Rippers on the day of the government's visit, and people were driving from half of Zasavje to protest there. Do you realize how serious this sentence is? You understand everything. How do you know all this? From the fact that there was a man at the protest. Police violence is the one that, in these protests over the past year and a half, gives rise to virtually two years of unrest. When people laid their paper feet on the ground, police violence awaited them; police violence awaited them when they read the Constitution. When they were riding their bikes, they were expecting what? Police violence. And now the opposition is the one who causes unrest and intolerance while the police go over banners and whistles and don't know what. We have also heard today, and you can live in your bubble, and you can consume these lies and some reality of yours, but really tell me when you list your successes, what the government has not done, and on the other hand those who look normal, we see a police state, hidden STA and so forth as yours, in quotes, success. Answer us, Minister, what did you associate the Slovenian public with? What have you connected the people with? In what way did the people come out here more closely, except in rebellion against you and against the government of John Janša? One success, Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u173	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! How serious or frivolous Minister Hojs’s intervention today is, it appears in two ways. First, if we look at the other side and see the number of Members present, which is very claustrophobic and does not reach a quarter of all the votes promised that will vote for the interpretation. Very sad. Another way to show up before the debate was to quickly look at all the main web portals and find that interpolation is no longer top news or that this news is today’s weakest article. [[…]] So much for the seriousness of this interpolation. The representative of the Left in her extreme left position devoted more time to Novi Slovenije than to substantiating their own seven points of interpolation. Of course, when the arguments run out, an enemy must be created. The known tactics of the previous system. Citizens and citizens have missed this many times, and they no longer fall for it. When the reason fails, the other smallest parties of the KUL coalition will be cast into the paper of these interpolations, and the other parties will follow this peacefully. Why do I think that? I see three clear clues in the interpolation. The first one, they wrote it themselves, quote: “What we have already warned about in Levica several times.” Secondly, by abusing the use of tear gas, which is identical to the extreme left position of the Left; and not least using the word canister. The whole of Slovenia is already laughing at this word, used by a fellow Member, and it is clear to everyone what the canister is. And finally, four statements, which are in the very interpretation that I have here, for me and for a lot of people who are concerned. I will list them as much as I can: anger, expectations, response, the work of the people. We all know that the extreme left side clearly supports such an action. Of course, the objective excuses funds for them, but I did not know that all other KUL parties support this, or maybe not, or maybe you have not read the interpretations and remained silent. Last but not least, the humiliation of the police. There's a lot of mistreatment in the interview itself. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr President, may I ask for a warning of silence? I don't hear my own thoughts because their thoughts are so loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u174	Please, keep quiet. Please don't fall into the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you, President, for allowing me to proceed. Next sentence: “The police have caused a few hours of wildness in the city by their actions.” Wrong world. Wrong world. We all know the police don't attack first, but they only respond professionally to violent incidents. And here I would give all the credit to the police and police officers who have done their job professionally and have also been injured for the prize. Next, if I continue: “Probably the police were the first to use violence.” This is said in the interpretation of the KUL coalition – SD, LMŠ, SAB. Are you not ashamed of such obscene statements? Finally, a statement to me by a couple of excellencies: "Extension of police powers and an increase in enforcement has already begun in previous governments. The whole arsenal of police action has thus offered the current police. So you're also interpolating your coalition partners in the KUL because they ran the police in previous governments. Last but not least – use of a water cannon. If we look over the Internet, we find that the water cannon was not only used in Slovenia, but also abroad: Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy. Comrade German, you know, was used in Trieste and also in Germany. If I am not mistaken when they were burning in front of the National Assembly, they cried out in Levica — Where is the cannon? Here I would also like to thank the Minister himself, who has worked very hard to activate article 37a, who has visited Ilirska Bistrica several times to ensure a better situation in the illegal migration of migrants to Slovenia; and here citizens and citizens of Ilirska Bistrica thank him very much. And finally, I am very dismayed when the words “stones in the hands” of Levica suddenly become sarcasm. For me, threats of violence have no place in this national assembly, and it is turned into “stones in the hands” for Levika sarcasm: and here I will make a dot. I'm not going to support this interpretation myself because it doesn't have enough arguments and it's full of shit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you very much. A German mattage, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you, President. It's a very short replica. Water cannon. We are talking about proportionate measures always in the relationship between police and the crowd. Water cannon is the last and extreme intervention when it comes to protecting life and possessions. In the history of the Republic of Slovenia, the water cannon was used only when Janez Janša was on the government. As numerous times as he was this time has never been in history, no other minister, except Gorenak and Hojs, used a water cannon in Slovenia. My fellow Member, do not be an example to you of a country such as France, Italy and other countries. We can't compare with them. Rather, let us compare ourselves with, say, Sweden or Denmark and some other countries. Not that they have no problem with you, we have seen in Denmark that they had accidents a month ago, but we in our history do not know this in our culture; or we know only when Janez Janša and his party colleagues are in power at the Ministry of the Interior. And I wouldn't brag about it. On the contrary, I'd be critical of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposer, Matthew T. Vatovec. Then the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u179	Porta Mesec has received, in the morning or in the afternoon, in the debate, said that Mr Hojs is actually a smart person who repeats his manipulation and lies with a specific purpose. Mr. Chernigoy, you're just repeating manipulations and lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u180	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you. Of course, it is necessary to confirm to Mr German that only when the right-wing government provokes people, pushes them into the streets and orders them to gamble in parliament, to set the garbage disposals on fire and so on. It's true, it's all true. You're capable of this, and Mr. German is left. Or rule; if you don't rule, but you have an abstinence crisis, and you're used — and you're doing well — to blow people away for not going through Parliament, for democracy to go according to your plans on the street — by violence, by burning, by throwing dice, and so on. Here. When he's on the right-hand side, that's what you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u182	Replica as a Member, Comrade German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u183	Mr. Secretary, I'm about to return the ball to you. You're saying that you're connected, that you're a party to the dialogue, but there's something missing in this dialogue. You're not actually talking to dialogue, you're talking to force. It is not true that it is our fault, but when we had protests and there was a left - centred government in power, this type of problem was solved in a different way. And I'll tell you one more thing, Your Honor Minister. Experts, not you and your subordinates, experts who have a lot of experience, say that such crowds of police can control, have endless experience not from protests, but from football games. And what was going on was 5. 10. That there were only 3,000 protestors, the well-respected minister, 3,000 Viol gathers on a derby with Olympia easily. If we add another 2,000 or a hypothetical thousand Olympic fans, this is a significantly larger crowd and the police are able to control it on a much more risky facility than the open market or streets in cities such as Ljubljana. Dear Minister, the answer is simple, not to vote for the SDS, to vote for anyone else, or for the KUL coalition or for the Social Democrats, dialogue will certainly help to do so, at least history says that force will not be used. At least I hope not in the future. Every time Janša's government was in power, Minister Gorenak, Minister Hojs, all possible funds were used, not just a cannon, but other coercive means, which have not been used in the history of our 30-year-old country at all. All this, Your Honor, you will be able to tell your grandkids that when I was a minister, we used all the coercive means; and you will probably be proud of that. We regret these events of yours and, of course, we will do everything we can to establish a dialogue between the police and between the people and not behave as you do. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Comrade Chernigoy wanted a replica. I'm sorry, I let him go earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u185	Mr Vatovec, with your own replica, you have demonstrated your intellectual reach. Unfortunately, not the arguments, you answered my debate. I wouldn't be proud of that myself and make a dot here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u187	I'd just add that. I don't exactly remember, I should look at who was discussing this today, whether it was Mr Vatovec, maybe even Mr. Moon, I don't know who, maybe even a German, I don't know when he made it clear that it was logical that you protested on the streets before the government came together. That's what you said today. You said it yourself – yes, indeed, we started to protest before the government came together, because we knew that if Janša was the government, it was the problem. That's your connection. That's what I've been talking about for almost an hour and a half now. Unfortunately, you yourself said when it was time to protest and when not and when to start. So even before the government is established in this national assembly, people must be driven to the streets if, of course, you do not have power.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Applicant Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u189	Minister, sir, whatever, I said the protests happened before the government was formed; and that is true. Now that you're talking about protesting violence and I, I think, no one in Levica has ever advocated violent protests. What is happening is something that needs to be condemned; and now let's make a point about it. Remember, however, in 2010, when protests were taking place against a small piece of work, which was a mess, I agree. Who staged those granite dice protests in this building? Some student official, a member of your party. At that time it was good for you to have your members throw granite cubes around Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We are talking about excessive use of force in the police force, we are talking about exchanges, we are talking about changing the internal organisation of the police and we are talking about no dialogue. I find it difficult to say that there is no dialogue between the police and between the people. I am a member of the Fourth World Ljubljana Šiška, where we have been cooperating with the Šiška Police Station, and there has never been any problem with our dialogue, and I assure you this has been the case for 10 years. Nothing has changed in the last year and a half, or two years, since the new government, since Minister Aleš Hojs, has been exemplary in our cooperation. For example, I am greeted by police officers before Parliament and escorted to the garage house. This is necessary because we were repeatedly attacked by various people who disagreed with the government and then, of course, attacked our Members. The violent protests that took place on October 5th and several times later, and when the water cannon was used, you say they were not so violent that the use of force was excessive. I was alone in Parliament that night when the two committees met together, namely the Committee on Environment and Space and the Committee on Culture, was a common theme. The gathering of people in front of parliament began slowly, at first calmly and then increasingly violently. Even in proportion to the savagery of the crowd outside, the hall was emptied. At the end, we remained President of the Committee on Culture, Violet Tomić, President of the Committee on the Environment and Space, Mr Bojan Podkoršek, 2 Members of the Left, if I recall correctly, and Coražija, one member of the LMŠ, I think that this was Mr Lenart, members of the coalition, members of the SD and others of the Left, they all left in good time. What happened to us? I have to say, it wasn't so mean at first, and then it got worse from minute to minute. In front of Parliament, there was a crowd of people, more and more, and granite cubes, as well as pyrotechnics, began to fly to Parliament. Believe me, that's when we thought Parliament would start burning. And we didn't know how to get out at all. There was crowd pressure in front, and there was crowd pressure in the back. A few people, a few Members, and a few invited guests, have left us in Parliament. And I have to say, I was rarely afraid in my life, but then I really didn't feel comfortable because we didn't know if we could get out or not. It was like Vietnam out there. The trees were, the loud screams, the threats, the pok cubes that flew into the glass, and the flashing of fire. I don't know if you call it peaceful protests, if you call it people being threatened here, in Parliament being caught, if you call it something normal, I don't know, then you're not normal. And we took a breath when the police force came along with the water cannon. They didn't hurt anyone. But if I had come to protest against any government, if I had seen that the protest had turned into such violence, then I would have left sooner. I think that those who remained saw such violence, I once called them shudders and then condemned me for it, but today I repeat that, those who remained, were breaking parliament, throwing in fires and cubes and endangering our lives, were no more than a flurry. And if you're going to say that we should die, burn in Parliament, so the police won't be too hard, then I really don't know, but you're normal or you're not. How can you, how can you be like that?Oh, my God! But you all rushed out in time, none of the SDs were in there, none of them were in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u192	Comrade Boxer, let's calm down, please. Look, it's an interpolation. What do you need this for now?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u193	I am talking about the proportionality of these measures being appropriate so that we can get out at all; but it's not just about us, it's also about random walkers, it's about random people coming back from work who picked up children, went to kindergarten, went to school and picked them up and took them home. It's about people coming from stores. It was the citizens of Ljubljana, you had to be protected. And all I can say is, whoever's defending it, who doesn't support the police work here, really isn't normal. You talked about how the organization is changing, how they are changing, how the sector leaders are being set aside and so on. I think it's normal, very normal. And I think it would also be good if we actually switched sector leaders and also exchanged between the areas themselves. If someone works his whole life in one area, then becomes a hard bureaucrat, then he is no longer adaptable, not looking for solutions, but just defending the existing situation. There's no development here. I think that people in the public sector should also change positions in order to also educate themselves to get a certain width. There's no need for anyone to have a customs office for the rest of their lives. We're just changing jobs. It's important that people don't lose their jobs. And as I know, no one lost their job, and that's the way it is. But they've changed positions. You see the problem in a few tweets written by people or written. But we write them because simply in large media such as RTV Slovenia or Pop TV, there is actually no room for our words. And even when we get to a show, we have to choose the word not to be interrupted at every performance. Slovenia has been praised on several occasions for its presidency. Slovenia has made tremendous progress at the most difficult time. We have 7% growth in gross social product, unemployment is the smallest in the history of Slovenia. This time, most of the money is intended for both health care and education and science. And, of course, these things obviously need to be blurred on your part. I think you've done this the wrong way. We build, and you tear down, and you break down at every turn. You're saying there was a mix-up in communication. Of course, there was confusion in the communication, but if the Constitutional Court demanded that the measures be checked for one week; and the same cases had to be republished every week. And why the decrees? The Law on Infectious Diseases was passed by the Government and the opposition collapsed. That is why we still have the Law on Infectious Diseases and the measures that then cause decision-making. That law, which was passed in the 1990s, was passed by Drnovskov's government, so we are waiting for us to be so normal that we can adopt an amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases, and you will not bring it down. Minister Hoys was intertwined twice. That's another time. Do you remember why it was the first time? Does the public know why it was the first time? I don't think so. Minister Simoniti was intertwined twice. Does anyone else know why he was in public? He probably doesn't remember. Do you remember why Minister Kustechev was interviewed twice? Probably not. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, you're rude. But you're being rude because you're falling into my word. Let me finish my thought. Minister Kustecheva supported the measures. It's also about testing students at school. What a scream and scream. What did it turn out to be? The fact that ever since school students get tested, infections have dropped. Did you notice that? That's why they're falling because they're not spreading like this anymore, because now they're all being tested. He was an intermittent minister, Minister Dikaucič, who was intertwined by Minister Visjak for some glue, some earrings. And we didn't deal with it, we didn't deal with how they listen to us as Stasi, and the KGB did, like, an ugly group, but we were dealing with what happened 14 years ago in some completely private conversation. We're wasting our time in these interpolations. My colleague very, very, very funnyly called it looking for hair in the egg, these are hairs. You use it all the time. Mrs. Sukic has appointed us collaborator parties. Do you know what collaborators are? These are the parties that cooperated with the occupying party. I mean, look, you can't take us with this. You're treating us like fascists, and you're really lying. [[advertising from the hall]] We build and you tear it down. And that's the fact that actually defines you. That there's no dialogue with the cops, really, you made it up. I think that most police officers accept the job perfectly well, do not do well – they do well, and we are grateful that we are safe. We are the fifth safest country in the world. That's why we can be grateful to the police. But if there's some dissatisfaction with unionists among them, please, there's always some dissatisfaction. Most, I think, are satisfied and respectable to the police, to every police officer in particular, as well as to Minister Ales Hoys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We have a procedural proposal first. Mrs. Meira Hot, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u195	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. One of the key duties in respect of the procedure is, of course, that the Member State treats us with respect, dignity, patience, non-discrimination. Together, we have adopted a code of ethics in this National Assembly. First of all, a respected colleague, even from the lady of your stock, I'll say, your condition is that at least you're not lying to at least you're not. And you won't judge me or my normality. You've argued here twice that we're not normal. What are you, a psychiatrist? Where do you have any confirmation that you're going to judge us? Really. I demand that you, first of all, apologize to us all, second of all not to lie. Of course, the U.N.B. has not collapsed, and you're afraid of withdrawing it, and now civil society has to write you a law. Madam Vice-President, I respectfully ask that such a disrespectful speech be stopped, that the ethical code be respected and that the Member State ceases to act so discriminatoryly and insultingly against all of us that it does not judge our mental state and apologize to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you very much. There is no replica because it was a procedural proposal to which I will answer. [[advertising from the hall]] Just give me a moment to respond first to a procedural proposal from my colleague Hot. We do not know the Institute of the Rules of Procedure as far as this is concerned; I have no leverage to ask a fellow Member to do so. It is, however, a fact that today's debate, from 9 a.m. onwards, is very boisterous and also very sharp for cities as regards rhetoric; and from all sides there are such and different judgments, valuable judgments. And I have already replied to one procedural proposal that Mrs Škrynjar has made before, and I will now be the same in her debate, as much as I have been able to hear it, because I was just on my way to the hall, I think she was passing on her valuable judgment on how she looks and impresses other colleagues. As far as the content of the UNB is concerned, I will not get involved from the presidency. I propose that this be done in the context of the discussions, in the context of the replicas, but I will certainly not be going into the debate. Another procedural proposal, Mrs. Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u197	Yes, because my colleague named me, she did not fully understand what I said today, so please explain what the concept of collaboration means. I don't know how SDS can co-operate with itself.Oh, my God! So maybe you can give her a little bit of an explanation of who I was thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u198	Mrs Sukič, if this proposal was intended for me, I will not explain the content of the terms unless, of course, it is absolutely not about my work, as far as leadership is concerned. If you have something to say to Mrs Škrynjar, do so in the context of the debate or in the context of the replica. Now Mr Nik Prebil wanted the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good evening, everyone. In view of these nebulosis, there are some facts to be said. Dear colleague, Mrs Hot has already told you in the procedural proposal that what you are spending here is lies, and in the party in which you are, you have been taught this well. The U.N.B., which you are now transferring to the opposition, has collapsed on your own, you in the SDS party and in the NSI party. And also when the Minister places the responsibility on the Members, if these laws are not regulated now because they have not been confirmed by the National Assembly, it is unfair to look only at the fact that the government is the first and most frequent bill-maker. And finally, you have hundreds of people working at the Ministry of Employment who are also preparing these laws for you. And once again, the U.N.B. broke the coalition, you broke it yourself, of course, because a referendum had already been announced in advance and because you were afraid of people for this marriage to be rejected. Second of all, dear colleague, you say everyone is pleased that no one is dissatisfied. And I tell you that more than 70% of the people in our country are dissatisfied with the work of the government, as the monthly survey shows. Besides, you also said that the police are fine and everyone is happy. And I'm telling you that both unions that are talking to the public, to the minister, to the director of the police with letters, what's wrong, that the police are political, that they don't enjoy the necessary confidence that the police are causing irreparable damage. Once again, in both unions – let me remind you that in the previous government one union was very much on your side, we can say that it was your union, and now it is against you because your own people are leaving – in these unions, a respected colleague, there are 8,000 police and police officers. And this isn't an incontrovertible number of disagreements with the work of Minister Hojs and Police Director Olai. And before then I respond to all the things the Minister has said, because I would still like to clear up some of the other things that have been submitted to the investigative commission, it's just kind of embarrassing that we're coming to this late hour of madness where the discourse doesn't go to explaining the readings anymore, but, of course, when the coalition runs out of space, you start with insults if we're not normal. And I think that – respected colleagues or colleagues on the other side – what is normal for you is certainly not for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The Replica has Mrs. Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u201	Thank you. First of all, thank you, Madam President, for really reacting as you promised five hours ago. You don't have double vats, you've used the same dictatorship then and now. Thank you for that, I would say, fair guidance. Mr. Prebil, I didn't say that everyone is happy with the police, I said that most of them are satisfied, but some of them are always unhappy, and it's not just the police. Any collective is so dissatisfied, let's say most are satisfied, and some are very happy, just after Gauss. And I appreciate what I see today – the police's work in protests, when they played a very constructive role, but I'm sorry for all the injuries, they were injured among the protestors, and I think, more than 40 injured police officers; and some were seriously injured. Here in front of parliament, an officer lost his front teeth because a cube flew into his face. And he certainly can't be satisfied. Not as long as they're treating him. I certainly believe that given the situation we have, if the police were so dissatisfied, then the fifth would not be the most secure country. So they're doing well, and I think most people are satisfied with their position. But I never said they'd be, but there's no perfect state. [[…]] There's always something to complain about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr Prebil, the proposaler, asked for the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you very much. It's almost a trifle, but, dear colleague, you're saying there's something discontented. Once again, there are over 8,000 police officers in both unions, and that's not something, that's thousands of people, which is big. People are dissatisfied with the police, but I believe that all those who have now been put in the lead or have been involved by Minister Hojs and the director of the police are, of course, satisfied that for virtually nothing works and obedience they receive a relatively good salary and, of course, they are also rewarded by a hierarchical scale because they can also make progress with you. But there's only one more thing I'd like to do before I give my word to my colleagues and colleagues. When you talk about this great trust and satisfaction. A survey was carried out shortly ago, and this is also reported to the minister in interpretation, this is one of the findings, which I also stressed in the position of the LMŠ Group that the minister lost or put the police at the bottom and that the police lost confidence very strongly. Look, this is a table that shows confidence in the police. And this is a drop in confidence in the police, which has been very large in the last two years. And this is the jump of those who jumped to 24,2% who no longer trust the police under this leadership. And this is the reality that the assessment of satisfaction, both confidence in the police and with its work, has fallen dramatically under Minister Hojs. And this has happened once in our country, in the former Yanshe government, where confidence in the police has fallen dramatically. And you've seen well how long it's taken to get it back to some decent level. And now it's falling back to the bottom again. And that's the guilt that we're reading to the minister and, of course, to everyone who's involved in this, that you're practically going to destroy the police because you're human beings, you're listening, not those who know something and are competent for this town, you've put practically everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you very much. One more replica, Mrs. Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u205	Mr. Prebil, one more time. If the police were so dissatisfied, then it would be chaos, then Slovenia would not be the fifth safest country in the world. That puts your claims on a lie. Besides, I don't believe your polls. I don't believe many polls. If you believed in the polls, then you should have our number of Members, but you have half the numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u206	We continue the debate. Mr. Jure Ferjan has the floor. Prepare yourself, Mr. Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u207	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear High Choir! We stepped into the 13th hour of the debate, and if the viewers and the viewers who have been accompanying us for at least an hour entertain at least half as much as colleague Nick Prebil, then probably today is not thrown away. However, perhaps, Mr Prebil, Mrs Mojca Škrnjar could be your mother, perhaps after years of course, a slightly more corrective relationship and not such an underestimating or scoffing one. Let's move on to today's interpolation. You're reading the creation of state-of-the-art emergency situations. At the first ball, when we listen to you today when we read Slovenian mainstream media, we could say – Hm, what is going on in Slovenia? But when we look at things in a little bit more detail and see what's really going on, the story — not a little bit — is completely different. And I want to know who is who wants to create an emergency situation in Slovenia. Is it the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is facing an epidemic of covida-19, which is taking measures to curb covida-19, to prevent the spread of a virus that takes such or similar measures as elsewhere in the European Union, as elsewhere in the world? Are these violent protestors who, at undeclared meetings with violence, with vandalism, including the spread of the virus, are intolerance, the hatred that, I fear, began months ago right here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia? And the reflection of this is the scenes on the streets of our capital, such scenes when pyrotechnic means are thrown into the police and also under the feet of the horses on which the police are. This is also due to what has happened and what has not occurred in this national assembly. If we move forward, we have even heard in one of the SAB debates today that some should stop Twitter, stop Twitter, and so on. Now we see who is the one who is so deeply disturbed by an opinion that is not the same as theirs. But when we say that some media say that someone is lying, it's not true, it's a defeat for the individual who defends himself. That's all wrong. This duality and these double criteria are truly incredible. You also say, in the interpretation itself, you are talking about the excessive use of repressive means and police violence at protests in Ljubljana. Are we dealing with the same protests? I have a feeling today, but not just today, I can also say in some past debates already that in KUL you often live in some parallel, imaginary world where obviously they do not have entry not covid-19 or anyone else, because you probably have a very vivid imagination, we have heard this a lot today. Because I don't know if you're looking at this photo of who's running the violence, the police or the protestors? Let's take a look at the photos. Who's doing the violence, who's got the bottle in their hands? Who commits violence, police officers, or protestors? [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I understand that there is a great deal of impatience and uncomfortably listening. It was also you who called for such protests, and I believe it is uncomfortable to look at such photographs. And then there's another such thesis that you're selling today in your debates that these protests besides being calm we've seen before how calm you were, that of course the protesters have taken into account all the conditions to prevent the spread of the virus – of course they all have masks, take a look at the distance See, they all have masks up, they all keep a close distance, probably all PCT, see, everyone with masks, see how well they stick to the measures! [[…]] Nobody's spreading the virus. No, no, no, no, no! Colleagues and colleagues, if you don't see it by chance, you can watch it online or on television. In short, a handful of them rarely have a mask, a rare distance, and probably the ones they want can't take into account it. And when we talk about tolerance, you're so patient. “Death of Yanshima,” you say. That's your patience. That's your patience! Organised death threat, organized death appeal. And I know, I know, it hurts, so you can't listen to this right now and you have to comment on this and it's sad what's going on. It's sad. At this point, I also want to know how KUL would react if you were in power if you didn't throw the rifle into the corn, and the protestors would throw granite cubes at the cops when the protestors threw firecrackers under the horses on which the cops are. What would we do? What would we do? Would you say, please, stop, would you say, give more, or would you make an order in accordance with the law and authority? What would we do? In view of what we have heard today, apparently the radical Left has managed to radicalise the entire opposition to the extent that the answers to these questions that I have raised and are, perhaps, rhetorical in nature are not self-evident. I'm afraid we wouldn't react in such a way as to make order to act in accordance with the law and powers. But as we've seen in recent months, it's worse for the state, it's better for the opposition, it's worse for the state and the government, it's better for the opposition. If we look at it further, you say, the unconstitutional limitation of human rights. Indeed, your imagination is rich as if in Slovenia, as if there is no covida-19 in the world. Today we also listened to what had happened, that people did not know that protests were happening because they had not looked into the Official Journal. Some of you, when you were not yet Members of Parliament and Members, went to the Brother of the Official Gazette, quite frankly. How many times did you go to the Official Gazette? And because the media has written about it, they've written about it over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. They kept writing and calling about it. Look, this photo, which is also one of the protests, look, it's two kids, so you can see them on the first ball. Very responsible parents! But I will not go into this, but so, but no, very responsible parents, to the undeclared protest, where violence and vandalism have appeared many times and, of course, then also in accordance with the powers and laws of the police, to bring a minor child to such a protest. That's very responsible, but I'm not going to go into this, just let everyone raise their children the way they want. And you know, in your parallel world there's obviously no covida-19 epidemic, it's just socialism and communism, but in the real world there's an epidemic of covida-19, there's still a covida-19 virus that mutates, has always new versions and faces Slovenia and the whole world. And this government is working, dealing with the epidemic, and at the same time solving people's real problems on the ground. In fact, this government will visit several regions in the mid-term, such as the previous two governments together. This is a reflection of a government that is successful, that is active and that solves people's real problems on the ground, raises the averages for municipalities, gives money for health care, for education, for things where you haven't done anything in a decade. Even before the fall or after the fall of the Sharča government, you have also been slightly offended in all the then coalition parties, but you have acknowledged it. You also say: politicization and militarization of the police. You'll already know how this works, won't you? As long as we look at your candidate lists at the state level, at local level, we can see a lot of things, who was previously active in the police force, and then apparently suddenly turned and, as I think, colleague Koprivc said today in the debate, he decided that he would also be active in the autumn of his life on the political floor. Okay. And when we talk about politics, which Prime Minister, when he was Prime Minister, attended the election congress of police unions, the Police Union of Slovenia, specifically. Not only the then Prime Minister Marjan Sarec, but also the then Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, was present at that election congress. But this minister, who is now at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Hojs, is concerned that the conditions for the work of Slovenian police officers and police officers are better, that they have higher salaries and that their work is also properly rewarded. You're obviously in pain. That obviously stings you. Now, you're saying that politicization is happening. If someone has hunters like that in the police force – and they could go to other areas, and I will not spread the darkness today – then it is you in the KUL and you are the ones who were protecting the people on the streets who wanted the power to happen on the road, on the street, and not in the elections, not in the National Assembly. You're the one who encouraged this, and now you're pointing your finger at this government that it's undemocratic, that I don't know what it is. These are your methods. Your methods are. I'm also going to point out one important thing that almost freezes you when you hear it, I have a feeling. For Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior, I hope to say that he is one of the most deserving, that in the European Union, the year 2015 has not been repeated in Europe and the migration crisis. If, after the event in Afghanistan, Minister Hojs's insistence and the agreement reached at European level had not resulted in a joint communication from all the Member States of the European Union that Europe would not open new corridors for migrants, for refugees from Afghanistan, then it would probably be quite different today's picture of Europe and would have a health crisis beyond. By the way, we're one of the safest countries in the world. And that's a fact you can't deny. We heard a lot today. Hereinafter, I will also allow myself to make some specific points. Member Violet Tomić of the Left said this, and I will quote: “Thank you very much for such a modern police force. The psychopath himself can look forward to this, Mr Hojs.” End of quote. Is that an alternative? Is this the future we want? Is that patience, or is that dialogue? Is this a dialogue you could be proud of? Comrade Prebil, you spoke earlier about criteria that differ between LMSH and SDS. Of course, there are different criteria, and that is very! You're in the KUL that supports this kind of communication, we don't tolerate it. You may fix me later, you may distance yourself from this, but given what happened in this temple of democracy, you stayed silent many times. I am not saying this specifically for you, Comrade Prebil, but generally for your political option. It's similar when you talk about peaceful protests. I can't imagine how a protest that destroys public property, private property that throws granite dice, throws firecrackers under the horses of cops, spits, insults, threats of death, calls peaceful protests. I don't understand. I don't understand. While I'm saying this, some people find this ridiculously funny and fun. Unbelievable. Really, amazing. We have come so far or so low with some dialogue also at the parliamentary level; we have fallen so low. And, of course, they don't keep talking about it, they keep talking about it. We have also heard today that we are not able to cooperate. Who's the one who rules out? Who is the one who ruled out the last state elections? Who signed an agreement on some future cooperation under which they had already ruled out in advance? Who's that? Is it a coalition, or are the parties to the government coalition, or are they KUL parties? That's what you're saying. You don't want to work with current government clients. Then who's shutting it down? We now have certain new customers, they are flying to the political floor and they are already saying in advance that they will not cooperate with this and this. Another so-called cool party that will exclude and share political space will share the Slovenian public. If we take another step forward. Today we have heard that the water cannon was used only when it was on the right hand side. Yes, but you know, when the left or left centre is in power and when the right is protesting or expressing disagreement with the current authority, it is done at a peaceful, reported, legal meeting where it takes care of the insurance, where it takes care of the whole process, where the permit is issued in accordance with the law, and when the Slovenian songs are sung, when we have a cultural programme, when the content program expresses an opinion and position, then there is no need for the water cannon to spray the protestors. That's not necessary at the time. But today you see for yourself, and unfortunately some of you have helped to do so yourself, but the situation is different. There is much more to be said at this point, and I may call back later, but I will conclude my debate at this point. I'm sure Minister Hoys will continue his work tomorrow. But you will probably continue your demolition at KUL tomorrow, but everyone will do what he knows best: we build, you break. I will finally allow myself to ask you if you have already chosen the next minister or minister to be held in the National Assembly. But I can tell you, the esteemed KULs, that in view of what we have seen today, when you are so empty in the ministry and who, with his answers, has given you a kind smile that I am looking forward to the next interpretation. Either this next intervention will be the third under the current government or it will be the first under a new government led by Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I will make a procedural proposal, Madam President, and I ask you to take it seriously. I would ask you to take this initiative to the College of Presidents as well. As in this mandate, we have never received the appearance of so-called images and photographs, as in this mandate, especially from the SDS Group. Parliament comes from the word parlare, which is the Latin word or Italian word where the rhetorically able to communicate and debate. What the SDS party does is actually over time; that is, if they want to do it in every debate – and they do it practically from the session – show us any professional material to do it at least in a modern, technological way, to at least see something, as we do as the Slovenian public. What they do shows only rhetorical power or incompetence to deal verbally with the opposite thinkers. Actually, it's a phenomenon we didn't know before. And this is what both the Minister and Members of Parliament do all the time. My procedural proposal is: firstly, whether this is cancelled and banned, secondly, whether the National Assembly and the SDS Group are modernising with the acquisition of iPads or perhaps even using displays that are visible to all of us here, and trying to give us their images - I'm talking about the moment they show, many times the violence - to show in a way that at least we will see what they're talking about. Another piece of advice. Please at least use the videos, because from a single photo it is proven from history that there are possible manipulations. So really take this proposal, because this Parliament, the “parlare”, has become a “photoment” or I don't know how to rename it. I think it's a lower level of debate and the reputation of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. German. I really fully agree with you, but I have no leverage and authority at this time to do anything else. However, it is my suggestion that you submit to the College of the President of the National Assembly, under a different heading, where possible, the proposal to discuss this, and perhaps we will find a common solution to this problem, which is obvious, I agree with you. We continue the debate. Mr Koprivc has the replica first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Vice President. I absolutely agree with my German colleague. Members on this side feel very uncomfortable because we keep looking at certain papers, more than white papers, because in fact, you believe it or not, we do not see it that far and it is really inappropriate and unworthy of Parliament. This is what you all do from SDS representatives in the government to Members and Members. Really, please try to put these things into words or I call on the National Assembly to find some technological solutions. However, I must repeat once again, as I said before, that Minister Hojs is indeed the only minister in Europe who is operating on some manipulative images that we do not actually see as Members and Members. Now I would like to respond to my colleague, Ferjan, because I have identified myself in some matters, but from my own discussion. First, about the covido. Mr Ferrjan is once again manipulating and attempting to counter the government's complete failure in the field of limiting the cod crisis to the opposition. Mr. Ferrian, this is a great absurd, great absurdity. But you know what the key problem is, why there are so many dead people in Slovenia, why there is so much splinter as there is? Because citizens and citizens don't trust your government. Why don't your governments trust you? Because you simply say and prove by your actions that you want this crisis, the health crisis, to be used to strengthen yourself in power. And in a situation like this, chaos begins. You said earlier that chaos in Slovenia is not. Maybe he was gone years ago. There's chaos in Slovenia! What happened at the protest is chaos. And this chaos, I'm sorry, has not been blamed by a multitude of people, but it has distorted the wrong instructions of the very top police or ministry, when the minister himself, along with his fully subordinate police chief, ordered excessive force to be used. I repeat again; please, in particular, separate non-violent protests from violent protests, and especially protests where excessive force has been used, not to attribute violence to them. There were a bunch of people who were nonviolent. There may have been some abusers among them, and these should be dealt with in a normal manner. And stop saying that the protests were unreported all the time. I ask you again why you or your ancestors in 1989 also appeared in undeclared protests about the release of Janez Janša. At that time, the authoritarian authority you so like to talk about did not use the force that Jancism used today. I repeat: Stop the equation and say that all protests are violent! I've already said that I don't see these images, but I'm telling you that the protesters who read the Constitution in the Republic Market weren't violent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Prebil asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Vice President, again. I have to respond to what was initially exposed because it was direct or direct to me. I think you're even younger than me. And what you've actually staged at the beginning is kind of typical evidence of underestimating young people, which I kind of don't want a colleague of his age to do. While it is true that a fellow boxer after years and this difference that we have, it is likely that my mother could be. And if, my friend, you who have come to the D.C. two hours ago, maybe three, have noticed that Members of the House are smiling when there is a certain nebulosis, just as we laughed when Minister Hojs ate popcorn, or peanuts, or anything in this Chamber, which is inappropriate not only for the Minister, but also for the Members and Members in this Chamber, if they do so. And just to have a little laugh, I don't think it's gonna be the end of the world. Now there's something else, because I see you obviously wanted to defend Mrs. Boxer. Well, I hope he's listening to me. We with Mrs Škrynjar, however, know this both by colleagues on the left and on the right, and I also have no problem with the correct relationship with Members both on your side and on this – I think that this can be confirmed by everyone – and that Parliament is a place where different opinions are faced. Regardless of whether we have a completely different position on a particular political situation, this is the space - this here, Parliament - to face these opinions. When you also say that, of course, we encourage violence, hatred and protests, I would remind you once again that in LMŠ we have very clearly and repeatedly, as well as all opposition parties, warned and condemned the violence that has taken place in the streets. In fact, even what comes from some of your sides - not from you, Comrade Ferjan, that we will not be misunderstood - but earlier, colleague Doblekar spoke of us sitting here as heirs to communism. Now, I was born in 1991, hardly a successor to communism. It really pains me that, over and over and over, no matter what kind of darkness it is in the National Assembly, we return to communism, fascism, Nazism, I don't know who the hell it is. It's a matter of painful history and history that it's right to remember. But I think that the young generation - well, we're in the field enough to stop being burdened. I'm sorry if I'm a little out of the dark. Just one more thing. When you talk about serious progress in the area of migration, let me just remind you that perhaps some of the things you are talking about are very appropriate, but I think it is important to remind you that this is probably not fully the fault of Minister Hojs, but progress in the framework of the Migration and Asylum Pact – colleague Ferrjan, you are well aware that I am very well following these matters in the field of foreign affairs and European policy – in the context of the Slovenian Presidency. Because this was simply not possible because of the blockage of many. And it's unfair and misleading to say what you did in these areas because you didn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Doblekar's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Dear Member Nick Beatil, I didn't say you were proud heirs, you probably didn't understand me correctly, but I was looking directly at Mr Koprivac, who himself said he was a proud heir. Not you, but Mr. Koprivac from the SD party. That's what he said himself, and I just repeated after him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u216	Thank you very much. There are no replicas on the replica, Mr. Koprivc. However, I estimate that the replica was very correct. We continue the debate. Mr. Boštjan Koražija has the floor, prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u217	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. It is a fact and it is obvious that we currently have very big problems with political ethics in Slovenia, with political hygiene and so on. And I'll answer why. In fact, for a year and a half, we've been watching and watching and listening and listening to a citizen representing himself as Minister of the Interior, coming to the shows, coming here to us in the National Assembly. Why? Since last year, starting on 30 June 2020, it has withdrawn irrevocably. And I will quote from the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, which means irrevocable or irrevocable – “something that cannot be undone, changed”. So, no doubt, certainly, definitely, unconditionally and so on, definitively. And this is the issue which has created the problem in general politics, even in Slovenian politics. That, in fact, people can no longer trust either the politicians or the government at all, because it is simply that ministers and the President of the Government do not adhere to the word or want to keep their word in such a case, because if a word has to apply, in fact, in politics, in agreements, in compromises, in negotiations and in such matters. Even when Mr Hojs keeps pinging with us and throws the ball and says that we have an abstinence crisis by power, I would just say, then he always has an abstinence crisis after his resignation and then again about re-entering politics as minister. See, the matter is also even more problematic from the perspective of these things that took place in Ljubljana on 5 October. Now I don't know which one of you had the opportunity to walk through Ljubljana at this time when it was full or liquefied with tear gas. In fact, it really seemed like a war situation, because on my way home from work I had met a lot of families who really didn’t realize what they had come into or what they had let into, because there was simply no real information or information that they had been, but they were very stingy or indefinable. In fact, they could not even tell where, how, and why to avoid this tear gas in one way or another. These police arrests, standards, tasks and such matters could be discussed, but the fact is that there was an excessive intervention at the time of the protests that happened with the tear gas itself, which is unfortunately also some kind of chemical weapon. Mr Hojs has also consistently spinned us today, and very well he repeats these phrases, which are very fast to be heard if someone continues to listen to them. The fact is, what Minister Hojs and the government want to achieve is that, in fact, they will overtake us – according to the opposition – most of the blame for the situation in the country, which is a great deal of rudeness. Because someone who rules must be aware that he rules. And even when they decided to take over the government, they also decided to take responsibility for all the professional and other matters affecting the authorities themselves. So from this point of view, I'm just going to say "noise, brother, it's not going to work that way." In fact, it would be right and it should have already happened that the President of the Government would also take responsibility in public and actually for all the things that have happened because they were simply things that would need to be discussed in concrete terms in the future and also agree on how to deal with matters further. But in the end, I'm just going to add one more thing. Since Mr Hojs spoke earlier about the popcorn he was eating, I will say, I hope this has nothing to do with the fact that he might want to tell us something, but maybe this government is throwing a rifle into the corn because he was talking about corn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Iva Dimic, Mr Rudi Medved is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Good evening. In view of today's heated debate, 13 hours is already under way, and it will be, and I can summarise that Minister Hojs is a good minister. Almost all the time, he is not in the hall for a few minutes now, explaining and answering various questions, as well as instigating. The fact is that the Slovenian police in addition to the Slovenian Army form a pillar of security and freedom in our country. Talking, implying that someone deliberately creates chaos and an emergency situation in the country is extremely inappropriate. I can say for myself that I have witnessed many times some extraordinary situation in the National Assembly, and we know how this comes about. We also know who called and who took the picture, at least at the first undeclared protests in Ljubljana. And if the protest was undeclared, the police must do what? If the protest is unannounced, does he just have to watch or go there or must he act? I'm sure you and LMŠ know very well, because when I took a little look at the role of the police in ensuring national security, I found some sort of degree work, the mentor of which is Damir Črnčec. So, you have a very good mentor who probably told you what the police's purpose is in undeclared protests. Does the protest have to stop, or does the protest continue? Do protests or movements and properties protect against violent protests? I'm sure you know that, and so do the people who watch it. Well, people see, create their own opinions, and actually they're also evaluating, and they're going to be evaluating us very soon. To say that there is chaos in this country, that there are extraordinary circumstances, seems unfair to me. Because, once again, Slovenia has the lowest, historically low unemployment and, of course, it also has very good economic growth, economic rating, and that is probably what hurts you the most. And once again, given that you sometimes have some difficult words that have been said today, even “stones in your hands”, it seems to me that it is high time that we all touch what I think we are here to work for peace in this national assembly and even among the people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u220	Replica mags. Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Mrs. Iva Dimic, but now you've actually said the point. You said that because the protest was unannounced, now, by the way, the Constitutional Court strongly stated that it was impossible to ban assemblies. So all the fines that were issued were unjustifiably issued, but you said the point. Because the protest was undeclared, it is said that it is justified for you to use all the funds. Are you kidding me? You spilled half of Ljubljana with a tear gas, and you said it was because the protest was unreported. Yes, but what would you do in the opposition? Yes, please. Please! But these are methods in a democratic country that you're watering children's playgrounds, and I don't know what, with tear gas, because the protest is unreported? And as we're told, the Constitutional Court has told us that this is no reason to punish participants. And I repeat, even the protest in socialism for the release of John Janša was unreported and no one was beating and beating and pouring with a tear gas. Now, one more thing, allow me, Vice President, briefly to respond to Mr. Doblekar, because you repeat all Esdees all over the same thing. I agree with my colleague Niko that with these matters Damir Črnčec, returning to the past, socialism, communism, NOB, the actual majority of citizens and citizens are bored [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u222	Mag. Koprivc, that's not right of you now, because I gave you my word for the replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u223	If I may only in two sentences.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u224	You can't because Comrade Doblekar had a replica and I told you I won't allow replicas on the replica, so I'm asking for correctness.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u225	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u226	Thank you, too, for the correctness of giving up. Procedurally, Mr. Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you, Vice-President, for actually doing what I wanted you to do to warn the Member, because I can't respond to this right now and it doesn't seem fair to me to abuse the replica of turning to me if I haven't had any dialogue with him at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u228	Yes, thank you very much, because I've already given my opinion, so we've stopped it properly. The debate will continue. Mr. Rudy Bear has the word, get ready for the mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I'm a little embarrassed because I haven't prepared any exhibitions for tonight. However, I will try with word illustrations to show how the impact of politics on the Slovenian police system is flowing. For we are talking about police politicisation, the political subjugation of the police, and then, very early this morning in this debate, we get an impression of the Minister first, and then of the SDS, how the government of Marjana Sarca has incredibly politicised the Slovenian police. And by what do they substantiate this? Yes, that Prime Minister Marjan Sarec was at the congress of the police union. Horrible. This is chronic evidence of how the previous government politicized the police. On a case or two, I will try to show how this works under this government, how it works when the Slovenian police is led by Dr. Olaj, who, of course, is very obedient and, on the other hand, very effectively transfers the will of policy through the Director-General to all levels of the Slovenian police. Of course, given that in most decision-making positions it is in one way or another that everyone understands fully the will of the ruling politicians and then it is so much easier. For example, in the case of one dispute between the Minister, the Director-General and the Head of Police Unions, when the Minister publicly criticized the operation of the unions several times, then came a tweet by the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, who was some kind of trigger and thus wrote on 7 October that "the police are led by its Director-General, various trade unionists, SD and LMŠ supporters, and yellow and red cartons must be allocated". This was a sign of action, which was also very well understood by the Director-General of the Police, Dr. Olai, and immediately attracted himself by tweeting and on the same day raided one of the two union presidents. Well, a few days later, the Director-General of Police issued a decision to exercise control over the unionists, and he quickly ran out of control, and the supervisors wrote a report on the exercise of control over the unionists with date 4. 11. 2021 and sent in accordance with the rules for verification to the Director of Police. He also ordered control. But, of course, before this document was official, date four. 11th, this report was received by Minister Hojs. He says that because the Ministry is a co-signatory of the collective agreement, I will not judge whether he was entitled to this document or not. Somehow it can also be understood from the law that this could be a matter of concern to the general public, for example, conditionally speaking. But it doesn't matter right now. In fact, Minister Hojs then verified this report in such a way that he made it public, and that day before he was burned by Minister Hojs, Dr. Olai signed it. So, it was necessary to get a confirmation from the minister in order for this document to become official. But here, of course, the story is not yet finished, because there was nothing so unbelievably burdensome in the document for both union presidents. There have been some mistakes with regard to the timing of work in the union, but what I think is essential in the end is that it is necessary to indicate whether a measure is needed or not. And in this case, the supervisor who submitted this report concluded that this measure against the unionist was not necessary. Now what? On the basis of this report, it would appear that it would be difficult to act against the unionists, but luckily they committed even more sin and gave an interview for one of the newspapers. And this interview was enough to warn you about the regular cancellation of the employment contract. So, not the results of this surveillance, which showed nothing dramatic, but because in this interview they said that police chiefs still simply hang their mistakes to police officers, that there is great apathy and dissatisfaction within the police, which they do not remember in their 25-year careers, there is also a genuine fear of the threat of losing their job, insofar as individuals do not act as the Director-General wants and so on and so on. And that was enough to warn against the regular cancellation of the employment contract, and so the circle is concluded. The Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister writes that the unionists should be given a yellow or red card, then a story runs out and very quickly, very quickly, comes into effect; the warnings before the regular cancellation of the job are these yellow charts and the red card is known: the red one is cancelled. So it's not red yet, despite the fact that politics has asked for it. This is a classic example of political not only interference but a political dictatorship; it dictates how the general director of police should act with the team when ordered by politics. The second example, it's very transparent, it's public, it's nothing hidden, it's just doing it on the open stage. The second case is so interesting because it somehow illustrates the attitude of the Director General of Police, Dr. Olai, to the use of repressive means. In fact, if you remember last year's protests in the market of the Republic, there before May 1st, when the protesters burned something out of cardboard made chairs in the market of the Republic. Although there was nothing special about that protest at the time, at the end of the protest, the Director-General of Police sent a message to the Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration asking: “Why didn’t you use the water cannon? Report!« Why didn't you use a water cannon? The director of the Ljubljana Police Administration ruled, of course, that there were no conditions ripe to use the water cannon at that point. The Director-General of Police himself, as he is an expert in this area, knows very well when and in which cases a water cannon can be used or even thought in this direction. Of course, he received an answer that the conditions for use of the water cannon were by no means appropriate. I don't know if he thought the water cannon was gonna put out those burned, burned chairs out there in the Republic Square or something. Given the Director-General's professional subordination, it is clear, of course, that this issue did not grow on his pupil, but that such a question could necessarily only be obtained from a policy that, whoever was already of a type of policy, has probably broken down, why they did not use a water cannon in this case. Another example is when the Director-General of Police goes to work with his opinion, but he can change it very quickly or change it. This was an example of a protest in Prešeren's market on 15 June this year following that significant removal of yellow vests from Prešeren's market. After that evening, the Director-General of Police Dr. Olay was delighted to inform the Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration that the police officers had done their job extremely well and professionally. However, this enthusiasm lasted only a few hours, and then suddenly it changed, and suddenly the director-general of the police asked for further clarifications, and he erased the message that he sent through the Signal app. Then he accused me of looking at his phone, how I knew that message had been erased, but if the addressee, the director of the Ljubljana Police Administration received it and saw it, and if it disappeared in three hours, the sender deleted it, of course, because this app allows it. And then, of course, there was a sudden action of control. Such controls usually end with a warning before the termination of the employment contract, and this also happened this time, allegedly because of the public interest. Well, that public was apparently immediately after those protests that day, the Prime Minister of the Government and Interior Minister Hojs, who both expressed dissatisfaction on social networks over the alleged lack of police action in the Prešeren Square. Of course, then, as was said, this was followed by warnings before the termination of the working relationship, both for the Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration and also for the Head of Operations. So there is another evidence that the Director-General of Police can have an opinion, but sometimes, or often, he also takes an opinion on politics and, of course, this time, as he had done so many times before, he got it very quickly. What's interesting, of course, is that he has actually trampled on some of the principles of the profession, which he knows well, if he first, as an expert, assessed how extremely good this action was, and then suddenly, such a move. Such conduct by the police, which is blindly following what the ruling policy commands, has the effect that we should not then be surprised that in certain cases police action is exacerbated or that it also leads to a situation such as the use of force on 5 October. Normally, such forms of intimidation with these warnings before the termination of the contract, which are in the order of the police system itself, also do their part. Because it is interesting that the Head of Operations was a police officer in Ljubljana on 5 October, who had also received a warning a few months ago from the break-up of the working relationship, saying that he had poorly protected Members from parliament. And of course, when such a punished man is sent as head of the operational headquarters to such an action as it was on October 5th, he will of course react in such a way that the politician will like it because he has obviously reacted too weakly, too dimly, too much in the past. From this we can conclude that a person will then make a decision, but we will step up a little bit, and then these missiles could fly through empty markets and bullets with too long reach, because it was necessary to make them like politics. The man already has one warning before the interruption, and the next is the interruption, and this is the way in which the intimidation and exclusion of professions works, in order for the police to act according to the measure of the ruling policy. Perhaps I would point out just one more thing, because the Minister likes to deceive, and if he introduces these terms for police commanders, he has, of course, deceived him a number of times, and today. In fact, he attributed the former government or former police leadership to the beginning of this system, which is, of course, a complete deception. He found a document there, one reply from the police director-general to the unions, and from this he concluded that things had already been mutilated. It wasn't like that. It is true that at the time, in the framework of the negotiations for the collective agreement and the strike negotiations, there was also the possibility of introducing mandates for police station commanders and police directors. This was one of the union's proposals at the time. The leadership of the police, with the knowledge of the interior minister at that time, responded by assessing that it is also possible to introduce mandates, but of course with appropriate criteria, by establishing a system, in particular by fulfilling the competences and the competent model itself, which is not yet in the Slovenian police system. However, this was certainly a speech within the framework of the strike agreement and the collective agreement, and no one at that time spoke about any changes to the law in this area. This has now grown completely on the lawn of the Interior Minister and we are now witnessing preparations for a large lustration between police station commanders. Indeed, the law is in force, and the rules with the criteria for selecting the chiefs after the new are not yet in force. This is very much in the sense of first selecting people to be elected by the ruling policy and leadership of the Director-General of Police, and then preparing criteria for those cities to be occupied by those who are the most conveniently ruling politicians. Finally, perhaps this: since the minister, after reading to Marjan Šarc, has given up – we know that he has resigned because he is also doing himself in democratic systems when you do not have a political majority – the minister says that the bus has taken over the new driver of the crew and that we are now so greedy that we criticize them because they have taken the chauffeur and crew to the macadam, we are on the same bus by force and we are driving together along this macadam road and, of course, we can say with all right that they are the chauffeur and crew sucks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the minister. Mr. Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Medved, just to clarify what you have said, I would eventually read a letter sent by the Director, who was set up by you or not by your Minister, Mr Poklukar, about Tatiana Bobnar. She sent this letter to the Ministry. The letter is referred to as the Platform for the Relocation of Personnel to Police Management and Comparative Arrangements in EU Countries. I don't know if you've read it. The lady wrote that it would be necessary to regulate the possibility of mandates not only for these cities, which we have now defined in the law, but even much lower; that is, for cities that are defined at local levels, i.e. the local level, the regional level, not only the chief, but also the head of the centre, the service of the centre, the assistant and so on and several other levels. But the point is, that's what answers your conclusions. So, in the police, we think it would be more appropriate to arrange this in the Law on Organising and Working in the Police than in the collective contract for police officers. So this was the position of the police in 2019. That was the position transmitted to your minister. I must say that I myself agreed with this position by former Director Bobnareva, which is why we have arranged this matter in law and not in a collective contract for police officers. Finally, you know, the union's wishes are also such that even they would participate in the appointment of chiefs, which is in fact at odds with any logic. Can you imagine the CEO of the company being appointed a union? I mean, it's like talking to Martians if I'm a little sarcastic. So to set up police station directors and directors, of course, was the union's wet desire all the time. That's why they advocated to settle this in a collective agreement. Now that the matter is clear that it's a matter of marriage, and when we know what these people are called and will continue, of course, every option goes away, I'd say, even dreaming about the unions managing the police. And I don't think they will. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Procedural first, Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just for a moment, I would have aroused your attention. I'm not sure I understand the Minister correctly, but please, Madam Vice President, correct me. Did I understand that talking to the unions is like talking to Martians? Did I get it right? As long as you have spoken and again addressed someone, in this case of a union, I would ask the president to invite you or to invite the Prime Minister to apologize to the trade unions and trade unions, because I do not see any connection with trade unions and Martians, as the Minister for Home Affairs sees it. Did I understand you correctly, Your Honor, or did I misinterpret you?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u234	Yes, thank you very much. Once again, under the Rules of Procedure, I do not have any jurisdiction or opportunity to invite anyone in this Chamber to an apology. But I can give my word to the minister if he wants to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u235	Sure. Look, it's not working. You got me wrong, Mr. German. I said that the ideas that the directors of the company or the station chiefs or the directors of police administrations — what the unionists want — would be like talking to Martians.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Bear's got a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u237	This is Earth, this is Earth! I don't have the letter you're mentioning. I've never seen it. After oral delivery, I am only aware of how these talks were conducted at the time; therefore, that the government has not prepared any changes to the law, but that this was an agreement at the level of trade unionists and the general police administration, and then the matter has been concluded for us in one way or another. So it could never come to any realisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u239	Tomorrow – no, not tomorrow, because I have other obligations, I will pack this letter for you on Wednesday and send it to the Group of Members so that you can read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Dejan Kaloh, prepare Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u241	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear Minister, good evening. Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, you too have a very good evening! This interpolation is now the ninth in a row at the time of the current government and has seven points. Both nine and seven are fairy tale numbers. This interpolation can also, at least in the workplace, be referred to as one more fairytale opposition interpolation. I'll also argue why. The perceptions of interpolation are true, as is already the operating mode, flat-rate, but it completely diminishes some of the real elements when it comes to specific data that should actually relate to the work and responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs. However, I think because I am following as a member of your attempts to overthrow this government through the opposition, you are most disturbed by the fact that our ministers are actually proactive, they are working, they are capable, but above all they have a lot of knowledge in the field in which they minister. Aleš Hojs is also among those who can show the results of their work. There have been quite a few of these results in the internal area. You, too, opposition Members, have certainly seen them. Of course, he took care of the good working conditions of all police officers first, raised their salaries. At this point in Slovenia we no longer have fictitious residence applications where 50 applications would be made at one address. The introduction of highway police. The invitation to tender for the Tetra system was successfully issued in the field of public procurement. A new law on the ID card that will enter into force or we will apply it on 3 January 2022 when these new identity cards are issued. During the year, I would say that the health records will also be combined with a unique ID card. Look, we have a very proactive minister. I can say firsthand that in 2012/2013 I worked in the office of the then Interior Minister, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, it is said that I know the good functioning of the Cabinet and in general of the interior ministry, and I can easily claim that both Dr. Gorenak and now Aleš Hojs are the best interior minister in the history of Slovenia. That's easy to say. This is shown by both the results and, to say the least, their expertise, professionalism and work. The applicants kept talking about some alleged pigs that were supposed to be in the context of this interpolation. But, you know, respected colleagues, what are real pigs? The fact that the police arrested a staff member of the Special Prosecutor's Office about a month ago, where, of course, she was on the line through intermediaries with members of this brutal coffee clan, and she also sent this classified information to the Mafia for almost two years. It's a mega scandal of the state's attorney's office. We're not stopping here with this employee. We'll also be looking for the responsibility of others, because it wasn't just now that she was just taking some pictures of these documents. But I guess someone should check the security parameters a little bit more at SDT. We have a joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Home Affairs on this very subject tomorrow. There were also a few words about another interior minister, Mr Poklukar. Under his ministry, for example, illegal searches into police records took place, into the personal maps of Members during the sensitive period that this current government consisted of, and also into the personal maps of some of their ministers. For example, a police officer was in control of then-Defense Minister Karel Erjavac. This officer was also actually convicted in court, and we had him on the Commission of Inquiry on the finding of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. We have demonstrated this and have also proved it on the commission of inquiry and also tomorrow, exactly tomorrow, we also accept the final report. Look, these are the ones you call pigs, I call them shocking things in our system. These are the things we should be talking about. On the confidence of citizens in the work of the police. You're referring to some polls, and I recommend you talk to some of the people on the ground. I still think that under Dr. Anton Olai, in practice, things show that people trust the police. Of course, it is necessary to talk to citizens on the ground, not to interpret some surveys. The police have proven that he is in the service of the law, that he is in the service of the law. We have seen this in all the violent protests that have just happened in Slovenia. She acted quickly, professionally. And now, my respects, these street abusers have effectively restricted and brought about public order and peace. All the well-meaning have seen it this way, and I can only congratulate Slovenian police officers and Slovenian police officers who hold their heads for sale when they confront these streetmen. I must also say something about these so-called gas protests on 5 October 2021. At that time, thank God that someone activated this section of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, because this was of course necessary with regard to the event that took place in Slovenia at that time: the EU Summit? Western Balkans. And, logically, what should we now afford for the embarrassment of any other foreign statesman? Or there, at the final stage, one car crew even caught up with those protestors when they were running there, so I welcome the decision then. [[…]] In addition, because these promoters of these protests have in fact said that these protests will occur. It says that some, I regret if perhaps someone happened to happen to be in that place, but were definitely informed by means of public information. This provision only applied for one day, from 5 October to 6 October to 7 p.m., so that talking about a violation of human rights is simply not right. Earlier, Mr Medved had a discussion with the head of the investigator. On his investigation, the director of the Ljubljana Police Administration, Janez Rupnik, clearly denied these allegations in order to overstep the resources and so on. The police action was professional and legal, if the Director of the Ljubljana Police Administration so says, in fact. As far as these worse violations are concerned, they're massive. Of course, police must act by disbanding the meeting, even if the conditions are sufficient, coercive means, including tear gas and water cannon. Now, you've been talking about it like I don't know what kind of a stranger in Slovenia. I, of course, looked at Aya, and this, today we have heard a really one statement, which is an anthology statement in this call of the National Assembly, that gas is a chemical weapon. [[…]] I mean, that's true, if we ever have a chamber of anthological statements from Members of the National Assembly again, it's definitely in place to be listed here. Where did the police come from this year: either at anti-PCT meetings or at opposition to government measures? Dear fellow Members, with tear gas and water cannons only this year, the police in other countries sent in Brussels, Vienna, Berlin, Bratislava, Kosice, Paris, Toulouse, Lyon, Cetinj, Athens, Genoa, Trieste, Rome, Melbourne, Sydney. And you know what? One interpolation was not in the national parliaments on this subject, I will say in the notes, the fertilisation of these cities. Such respectable fellows, take a look over the plank. I believe you've been following, even before, a German colleague has been talking about how much is at the border and how he talks to the police. But if you look at the actual facts that are happening beyond borders, you will see that tear gas and water cannon are used quite often and because of violent rioters and, of course, by law. Allow me another pure personal experience. I was on a tourist trip to Santiago de Chile, accidentally falling into those classic, traditional student demonstrations. And they're very temperamental there, almost by default. Although Chile is one of the most democratic countries in South America, the police, of course, used tear gas and water cannons. I happened to be a tourist there and, of course, I also received a portion of the tear gas. It's my fault I didn't inform myself where I was going before. I didn't read Lonely Planet too well, but look, that's exactly what I'm responsible for. In Spanish they would say: “Yque!” What if that's where you went? Once again, I regret if any tourist in our Ljubljana has got tear gas in his eyes or, God forbid, what kind of young family, but not to say they didn't know. They knew that the narrower part of Ljubljana and Brdo would be fenced and so on. Otherwise, let me jump back to Slovenia so I won't be too long. The spiral of this violence, when violent protestors were really brutal in setting up their positions, did not begin on October 5th and did not begin out of loving peace. Dear fellow Members, I don't want to put you on a pranger here right now, but if you are truthful, you will say that you yourself, with your presence at these meetings, have begun to light this match, which then actually ignited into what is the great fire of violence on October 5th. You were exclusively from the left hemisphere, from the MP Koprivac, including Germany, Siter, Sukičev, but you were also the party leaders from Charc, Mesca and Tanja Fajon. Here you're essentially looking for reasons for your polarization, not on this side, when we're just reading it well. To the conclusion. Ninth interpellation, distinguished opposition colleagues, including your ninth defeat. Just because of such a destructive escapade of yours in the form of interpolation, where there are also largely instigations, you will also burn in the next elections. However, in the capacity of Minister Hojs to serve as Minister of the Interior, I wish to continue to make a successful way forward and to remain so effective and consistent in the performance of your function. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We have a procedural proposal first. Mrs. Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u243	Dearly beloved, I ask that you simply warn the Member because this debate that he denies the constitutional right of Members to attend demonstrations if we consider this government to be a disaster - which is also - I think it is something unheard of! What kind of discussion is this? Does this man even know the constitution? Do you even know what the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia says? That's a first. This is the constitutional right of each of us to express our protest also as citizens and citizens at outside protests. It's not my job to tell you here what you're doing wrong, because it's hopeless anyway, whatever we're telling you, because it's completely [[…]] I'm asking you to give him a warning, because this is repulsive.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u244	Thank you very much for the procedural proposal. I will not give my colleague a reminder because this would somehow interfere with the content of his debate. But perhaps I advise you to simply disregard his opinion and take part in protests when assessing that you must, colleague Sukič. That's it. Mr. Matjaž German has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u245	Just for a little while. My colleague Kaloh counted a whole bunch of cities, and they weren't even the main place where the protests were carried out at the source in a way that no minister was interpeeled. I would very much like to ask you what source, where you got this information. Because, according to my data - I can list Stockholm, Ottawa, I don't know, Zagreb, Naples - but there were protests and there were no problems and people were able to express themselves and their protest and their views before the government, even at the time of the covida. What's very interesting is we have very large fluctuations; sometimes the covid is slightly more present after periods, but sometimes not, sometimes we have to wear masks, sometimes we don't have to. So we have very different periods. Certainly, during the last period from summer to today, SDS and Nova Slovenija have received many events, even at a time of extremely high levels of disease or infection in our society – you do not get tired of it, you keep talking about protests and that we are calling for violence. Let me warn you, Mr Kaloh, that minister sitting there is no longer saying that the Germans and the Koprivac are encouraging violent protests. You know why? Because we filed a complaint against him. And you know why? Because it's a high probability, and we have a chance of getting this complaint. And you know what's gonna happen? Everything we'll recover from Minister Hojs will be for charity. You know why? So that no SDS minister will ever allow himself to be lied to again, because we already talked about this today, Minister Hojs, in our first encounter on the committee, when we faced the fact that we were going to activate Article 37a or not. That's when Minister Hojs said both unions support this activation, and in a moment, we found out that he was lying. And we immediately confronted him with lies. And at such a pace he continued, probably to continue until at least April 24th or even until we have this same government. Mr. Kaloh, I really ask you to be very careful about this, at least as far as I'm concerned, I once tweeted, "Is it already Friday?" I'll see you later. He couldn't even repeat those words when he told me. And even if I were to call for peaceful protests, is that any obvious? Is there something wrong with that? [[advertising from the hall]] Did you go to Mass? Did you go to meetings? “Report”, says Mr Krivec. Who hopes to report anything in this society? You drive away anyone who raises their voices and tells their own opinions - doctors, schoolchildren, politicians, whoever. Mr. Guilty, you'd report it. Who do you want me to report him to? Hoys? You? Do you want me to come to your office? [[advertising from the hall]] The management unit? Of course! And you will approve of it, because you want to prolong the covid crisis with your actions to the point of disability, so that you can only rule, as you'll tell us, that we're fed by the rule. That's it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u246	Yes, thank you very much. Your replica time is up. Hand to heart, it wasn't exactly a replica of the letter of the Rules of Procedure. And I also ask that during the discussions and the replicas, we do not come across each other across the hall because it is really disturbing and anyone can come to the word whenever he wants. Mr. Minister has signed up for this. However, Mr Kaloh, I am not going to give you a replica of the replica because I estimate that there were no such inaccuracies in Mr German's replica to which we could or should respond. The word was wanted by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u247	Thank you very much. What Mr German said is, of course, a great deception again or I would say half a lie, in this case it's not a whole lie, because half said right and half let go. First of all, it's true, I didn't know how to repeat how you wrote it, I'm gonna be late or something. I agree, I can't speak your coastal language, and I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Look, I'm not one of those people who makes fun of people because they talk dirty, like you've done many on public networks against this journalist, who's now asking a little questions about Maslesev's degree, and he's got a reptile of measurements on him, and I don't know what he's talking about, because he's talking dirty. Look, I'm not used to it, you're obviously sorry if I can't speak well at sea. But it's okay. Look, Mr. German, but you didn't finish what you published. You know, that's true what you wrote, but you forgot to add the keypad. But the key was #resistance. That's right. Today you have read here the Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language and now open it. Do you know what rebellion means? Violent takeover. That's why I'm saying it again. You called for violent demonstrations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Replica Matjaž Germany [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u249	That's not true, and that's a lie! Violent? Please prove it to me. Minister, mutiny, of course! Of course, with all the democratic levers, in a peaceful way against such authority as you are just exercising, again the lie that has led us to accuse you. Prove to me where I am – be a face and not paint now, you're red again – please prove where I called for violent protests. And as I told you before, you are an eclectic liar and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do not deserve a minister of the interior like you. You're practically deceiving, instilling and lying with as easy as a dog running, a respected minister. And if not us, your colleagues, your passengers, your family, you must maintain basic dignity because of you, not because of us. Please be respectful of everyone! But you lie from day to day, as soon as you open your mouth, you lie. And paint in the middle. Your Honor, you said again that I was the one who called for violent protests. Don't be shy, Minister. Please prove to the world of Slovenia that I did it, or go out and hide in a corner. Don't be shy! This is not worth your position. Our people, Slovenes and Slovenians, citizens and citizens finally deserve normal people; that they are capable but normal; that they have empathy within them, that they have a feeling of compassion, that they have a sense of leadership in the way they are responsible; that they understand that power does not mean that it is your property, that power means much responsibility. This power has been given to you, you have not been elected to Parliament, and you obviously have the support of John Janša so that you can speak and do what you want. But these days will cease, esteemed Hoys, and you will have to live on. I want you to do this and do it in peace, because what you're doing is not normal. Dear Minister, this is not worthy of a man of your duties. And respectable SDS, there's really no shame in all this. Well, that's amazing, respectable Hoys, because that's amazing what you're willing to do! Again, you said I called for violent protests. Prove it, not just talk. Prove it! Everything else hurts you now, and if it hurts you now, it'll hurt you later, because it's karma, respected minister, if you don't believe in these things, because it's amazing! And all together, including your SDS colleagues, deserve better men in position. I'm sure you haven't been up to this function since the very beginning. Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Since I used the SSKJ earlier this day, Mr Minister, let me use it now. The dictionary of the Slovenian book language, under the keyword or under the word "resistance", writes that it is "the activity with which one resists". Just as much to explain, given that I understood that you were aiming at me when you said that we had used the Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language earlier in the discussion. Now you want the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u251	I will also look again, and I will read what it says under the rebellion, i.e. the "violent takeover of power", and I have only said that Mr German added the key to this call to the rebellion. Now I can see that it upsets him tremendously, but he didn't deny that he did. He didn't deny it! Did you write or didn't you write? [[advertising from the hall]] Did you write the mutiny but didn't you write the mutiny? [[advertising from the hall]] That's right. Well, that's right. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u252	Dear Minister, I've told you before, but you must be so nervous. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u253	Mr. German has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u254	That you don't hear what we're saying. [[…]] Dear Minister, of course I wrote! And more; there is a need for rebellion, in a democratic way, in a peaceful way to resist the kind of authority that you embody. Of course I am, and I'm proud of it! And do you mind the key to the rebellion? I tell you again: I call for a democratic, peaceful rebellion, people, go to the elections and say no to Aleš Hojs and similar and such a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u255	Thank you very much. We can proceed with the debate. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, Mr Robert Pavšič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! Instead of intonation, I will read the idea, in fact, of the prophetic words of John Kramberger, who said just before the assassination: “And when they do not rule, I add, then they will protest and call for the death of those who rule but are not of their kind.” End of story. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Aleš Hojs, I met him in the 2004-2008 term when he was a member of the Dars administration, and I can say that one of the most deserving, that the Pomurci got the highway in August 2008, together with the then Transport Minister Janez Bozič and Prekmurec Radovan Žerjav, and for that I am grateful. According to the LDS plan, Pomurje won the motorway only in 2013, we accelerated the programme for five years, so we got it in 2008. If it wasn't for that time, the question is, if we had it today, you know, the economic crisis hit in the middle. Our paths, the political paths later parted at some point, but in such a way that we can work well together, that we can heal, look into the eyes, bend into hands and work together for the good of these Slovenias. Since democracy is not a single mind, the essence of democracy is the coexistence of diversity within the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this place – as there is generally too little debate today on the Presidency of the Council of the European Union – Minister, my sincere congratulations on the achievements you have achieved in these last six months within the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. I hope that there will be enough time before the elections to make a thorough analysis for this. I continue to thank and congratulate the police, who at the time of the crown did excellent work, their mission, this is to ensure security for individuals and communities, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to strengthen the rule of law. Strengthening the rule of law also means, among other things, organising a gathering of people, that this must be a gathering of people — or a protest, as we call it — that it must be reported. Why? For safety's sake. For safety's sake. And it's only a matter of time before and if we experience a hundred undeclared Fridays protest. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a rule of law and it is kind of a disgrace to all of us. The tenth interpolation in twenty months, can be Guinness' record, we can say the productivity of the opposition, we can also say an empty set of ideas of the opposition, but when I wonder how high the standard has risen due to these interpretations, the standard of citizens and citizens, the answer is nothing or has fallen. About or on average these 10 interpretations cover 160 hours of discussion, that is four weeks of work, and our citizens had none of it. I'm sorry I don't have enough time. I conclude that the Minister has my support [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Your time's up. The next word is Mr Robert Pavšič, prepare yourself for the Mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Uh, it's interesting. Mr Horvath, first of all, I read to you: “Fear the Communists who will become anti-communists, and they will fly to the churches and pretend to be believers. Ivan Kramberger.’ We need to put things together a little bit in the context. Let's move on. Mr Hojs, Nova Slovenija has thrown you out of the party, and now you're being defended here with all four. Respect — very fair, isn't it? Another Slovenian proverb: a glib sum of chicha. Chicha, chicha, you'll be able to cut someone else's hair, paint anyone you want, not me. Let's move on, Mr. Kaloh. A tear gas. You were laughing. Can I read you the definition of tear gas in Wikipedia? “The tear gas, officially known as lacrimatory agent, comes from the Latin word lacrim, meaning tears, is a chemical weapon that causes tears in the eyes and irritation of the skin and mucous membranes, vomiting and even blindness. In the eyes it stimulates the nerves of the tear gland, which is involved in the elimination of tears.« Then there are some definitions and which chemicals are all used for these purposes, you can look at yourself, and write on this: “Lacrimators are usually used to manage riots. Their use in the military is prohibited by various international treaties. During World War I, a large amount of lacrimatory means was used.” And you're making fun of a tear gas like that today, and that's what someone in Parliament made up. He didn't make it up, Mr. Kaloh, please stop. He didn't make it up! That's what you made up, and now you're talking poorly about colleagues who define things precisely. Unlawful views of the records are again the same story, Mr. Horvat is here. It wasn't proven true, but you're gonna keep saying it, like I don't know what yellow blue parrot, I'd say my buddy Duck. And stop, please, making a fool of us to repeat the same untruths over and over again. And you could apologize for this story once, but you don't have the courage to hear about some fairy tales, fairy tale numbers, that it's not a serious political debate – that's what your colleague Lisec told us. Then we heard a few times about the government's resignation, and I don't know what kind of crops it is again. But let me tell you something, the resignation of the government of Marjan Šarc was the last democratic act in Slovenia for a long time. But everything that's going on right now is far from democracy. Let's keep going. The minister was second-guessed, but he's already resigned. Is that weird? Yeah, I think it's a world unique. Yeah, the minister backs out and then he's double-interpreted in his career. It doesn't work like that, you know, it doesn't work. No, no, no. And you will continue to say yours. Mr Doblekar, as soon as you finished your escapade on the rallying truth, a lot of people came forward and felt really offended. “The SDS Ambassador Doblekar just on television insulted all the militias who, with the action of the North in 1989, prevented the rallying of truth in Ljubljana, ” two words that I will not read, “said that the rally of truth had prevented the union of drivers, ” another very great imperative that I will not read. [[…]] Now these gentlemen will demand that the President of the North Society for the Primorska and Notranjska Mr Fabio Stefč react to the leadership of the North Association and ask you to at least apologize for stating these misleading but, above all, untrue facts. What was going on, why are we even sitting here today? It started soon after the suny acquisition of protective equipment began, and I don't know what other resources, and then someone came along who revealed all this misery and crime. That's when the protests started, Mr. Hoys. Not because people don't want to see your face or the face of the Prime Minister, but because you started doing bad things, crime. And all this work of yours, which is listed in the interpolation, only builds up the one that was in the previous interpolation. And I'll read you one more thing. What did your secretary say the last time he was here, Mr. Kangler? I quote: “Because someone wanted to harm this coalition in such a way that it spreads the untruth among you, that it spreads the untruth through the means of public information, and no one discusses how a single chairman who has more than 7 months and 17 or 15 days in a drawer criminal charges for a tycoon. No one's asking for responsibility why someone's on vacation, but they're demanding that Tonin be sued before they've had a conversation with Mr. Tonin. The D.A. dropped that complaint anyway. But who had such a political interest, an immediate complaint that the media would call, "Tonin Oveden"? He was, and the D.A. dropped it right away. But the man who's on leave needs to be sued before he talks to him. This is not how it is done, no.” End of story. It all seems very hectic, but there is something, your secretary seems to have a very precise view of the prescribing and criminal proceedings, and he is a political official. That's what we're reading, and you won't blame anything again! There's no abstinence crisis here, but there's actually a huge crisis of values that you've lost, I don't know where, which way and now they're all guilty, but you're not. You know, you're marked by four things, Mr. Hoys. First of all, you've become the face of an epidemic. It's totally wrong, the Minister of the Interior is the face of an epidemic! Okay, then there was Jelko Kacin next to you and Milan Krek, but that really built the credibility of managing the epidemic and communicating with people. I won't discuss the consequences, because this isn't about today's session. Secondly, you were the face of governance with measures, and above all, how to avoid these measures; you cut the grass yourself, and you were received, and you took your mother to Croatia, and you were again received. Instead of respecting the measures that should be taken as one of the government's representatives – that is, the first to respect the measures he has taken – you have said, yes, we are going to take it a little creatively; in particular, as far as we are concerned. Thirdly, you've completely politicized the police. You can deny this a hundred times, but everything that's going on isn't right. A fellow bear proved this on an investigative committee with a number of witnesses. No! No! You will stand up to one witness, and only one witness in 20 is telling the truth, and everyone else is lying — or what? No, we've already heard about Gauss's curve today. It's not working. And that goes away as one argument. One witness suits you, she tells the truth, and everyone else lies. Now, what's most interesting, for the fourth time, you were marked by your resignation. You know, about the resignation, even the minister, with the Prime Minister, he's having an argument before you step down. You'll make a deal with him. But no, you wrote a resignation statement, sent it to the Prime Minister and published it at the same time, so we all saw it, only the Prime Minister didn't see it. You are sitting here today — do you know why? Because of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not because of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where it is written in, because I know you know, but I will read it to you, »115. Article of the Constitution, the office of Prime Minister and Ministers shall cease when after the election a new National Assembly will meet, and the office of Minister will also end with each other’s office as Prime Minister and with the discharge or resignation of the Minister. “ You have resigned, so you are no longer a Minister, and you are sitting here just because it is written in the Rules of Procedure that the National Assembly must take note of your resignation. [[…]] So, the President of the Government has appointed the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as a legal act over the Constitution. And you want to remain credible in the eyes of parliament, people, professions! By the way, do not separate between the liquidation process and the write-off. And I'm not even gonna explain when you missed it so I don't look like a lawyer. And many other things have been heard today, which in fact does not give you a grain of credibility or a grain. And those who defend you refer to some normality. Yes, we need, not normality, normalization, normalization, because two years ago, I'm not going to say that this country was normal, but it was normal, we lived normally, I'd say. And you have to cut it with that. Another very interesting thing I heard right from the mouth of New Slovenia is that we have a problem pressing buttons in decisions. It's only been two days since Friday. Who had the biggest problem with pressing the button on Friday? Who? You're against it, but to formally keep your seats for maybe 14 days longer, you just pressed what you pressed. And one more thing. When we put pressure a few days ago, when we wanted to reveal or when I suggested we close the meeting, I would have brought up the documents, introduced you with documents that would prove the government's criminal involvement in the business, but you just said no, you don't want to know. It is no problem for me to propose an Icelandic model, and let us remove all the levels of secrecy from all documents, including mine, I have no problem, I have nothing to hide. And in addition, let us make a law on the origin of property that will be enforceable, which will not be disabled by amendments. Whose? Of course we do. Please, we're sitting here today without a relationship. Today, we should only be familiar with Mr Hojs' resignation, or for some time after what the business deadline is, and we would have concluded the matter, because the gentleman has not been a minister since he made his resignation statement irrevocably. This is what this book says, but it is not hard for you to forget and it is not difficult for you to adapt your needs to illegal and unconstitutional measures and also to unconstitutional conduct. Otherwise, history will judge it, not me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u259	Thank you so much for closing. A lot of things went by. The replica of Dejan Kaloh and the replica of Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u260	Chairman, thank you very much. It saddens me that the Members on that side really do not understand and, of course, create. Now, Comrade Pavšč, I served as an army, military service in Postojna, where you come from, and what you quoted from Wikipedia, you were talking about the military tear gas; but what the Slovenian police are using is a rather diluted mixture, Comrade Pavšič. Learn, please don't laugh at such elementary things. I really don't know where you've been in the military, but what you're saying, a police tear gas, you can't pull the equation that it's a military tear gas or another equation that it's a biological or chemical weapon, as a colleague once said. Don't fool the citizens and don't scare them. Before that, I also found a number of places for my fellow German, where he used — I will say, I will stress — a police tear gas, which is not the same as a chemical weapon. There is no German colleague – since you asked me earlier, including your replica – see the media reports this year where the police used tear gas and water cannons and you will see all these places. But to make it easier for you to find out, if you type out a search string, not a tear gas, a water cannon, take 10 minutes of time and see where the police used tear gas and water cannons according to the law. Very simple! Colleagues, don't really scare the citizens to gas them, you use very brutal terms like that. A police tear gas was used. Ad acta.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u262	Mr President, I would ask you to allow me, given that Mr Kaloh obviously did not understand what I said, a replica of the replica, because I should explain [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u263	I won't allow it, there won't be a replica because it's [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u264	Then it's procedural, and then you explain it to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u265	If you have made a procedural request, then make me a procedural proposal. I told you about the replica on the replica, she won't be here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u266	I gave it to you. You know, the bullet is a bullet, whether it's 45 millimeters or 7.82.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u267	My fellow Padswich, I do not allow this to be discussed [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] A moment of attention. May I have your attention, please? Let us also make a decent conclusion to this part. There is no need for any kind of matter to get on fire and to go in an unnecessary direction. Replica, Mr. Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Obviously, Mr Pawnee knows certain things or doesn't know whether he's doing stupid things, and on the other hand, he wants, as much as I've listened to him before, to fight among myself the North Association and the National Assembly and so on. And we spoke, both of us raised this issue in the activation of article 9 of the Law on the Work and Powers of the Police, that on December 1, 1989, when the events of truth were announced by Serbs who were coming or who wanted to come armed to Slovenia, they did not have as much work as they would have had if it had not been for the Engineer's Union Mr. Pavšič, they did not have to run out now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u269	Comrade Doblekar, you have a replica. Leave the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u270	So that's when the Union of Engineers of Slovenia prevented Serbs from coming to Slovenia for a truth rally. And I said, and I specifically pointed out that the police at the time didn't have as much work as they would have had, despite the fact that Article 9 was activated for the first time. That's what I made clear. Of course, in his manner, Mr Pavšič wants to make a cavern and a creme immediately. If he doesn't understand, let him read his history. At that time there was also a press conference convened in Ljubljana, when the Trade Union of Engineers prevented Serbs from coming to Slovenia for this rally of truth. And if he's not clear enough yet, let him see a little bit more, let him look at the President of the Republic's website. In Pahor, representatives of the leadership of the Slovenian and Istrian Engineer Association, Slavko Kmetič, Franz Kokošar and Mile Katič, contributed in 1989 to the successful prevention of the so-called truth rally in Slovenia. The reception, attended by State Secretary Bojan Pograjc and Vinko Gorenak, recalled the tense political and social conditions of the former Yugoslavia. On 24 November 1989, the Association of Engineers of Slovenia and Istria announced to the public that the drivers would prevent trains from arriving with participants at the truth rally in Ljubljana – if it is not clear to him, let him read it himself on the website. President Pahor therefore concluded at the reception that it would be appropriate to mark the union's contribution to the prevention of the rally at the end of November, thus securing democratic processes in Slovenia. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And I'm asking Mr. Pavšič to let [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u271	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u272	Apologize for such statements and not to smoke. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We continue the debate on interpolation. You have filed a request, the points are defined and I suggest that you stick to what is being submitted as closely as possible. The word has magic. Dean Jedhan, and he will be followed by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary, welcome! In fact, I wasn't going to sign up today. This is because in the Group of Social Democrats there are several Members and Members who know about internal affairs, about the area we are talking about today, more important than I do. The reason I take the floor is not that I have been on the phone with my family all day long here in Ljubljana to be informed that we have received five letters from your government at our address. And that to a family where we've all been vaccinated, some have even been vaccinated three times. Of course they ended up in a basket. I really hope the one who dared send this to me will also pay for the postage and all the expenses. I won't let you send this to me like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u275	A fellow Jew. I warned you, go to the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u276	Yeah, yeah. Look, I'm sorry. You obviously didn't listen to what the minister said. I have to answer him. Don't I have that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u277	Look, you're talking about content, not things that have absolutely nothing to do with interpretation. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u278	Look. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u279	Comrade Koprivc, I ask for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u280	I'm trying to be respectful, Mr. Vice President. I know the minister is a member of your party, even your vice president. If you've allowed him to talk about almost everything that's even possible to talk about, we've probably even gotten to Greek philosophers back into modern history, why are you preventing me from talking about what he was talking about? I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u281	My fellow Jew, just a moment. Please, if you turn it off so you don't run out of time. Don't abuse things. You've written the contents of mail and stuff like that, it has nothing to do with concrete interpretation. If you want anyone else's interpolation, put it in. But today you've made seven points, you've got a debate and you're talking about things that are in interpretation, and if so, then things that concern Minister Hojs. The President of the Government has nothing to do with this, but if you want, about the President of the Government, and then the constructive untrustworthy, or the interpellation of the Government, or any of these instruments. Now, if you'll excuse me, you have the floor. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u282	Let me finish. But then I don't understand, Mr President, what right did he speak of here, the absent mayor of Murska Sobota, the mayor of my town, who is progressing rapidly, and whenever he is not present, the minister borrows him. Do you know what that looks like? There's nothing ugly he can say about the mayor, he says more about himself than he thinks, but no one's interrupted him before. The Mayor of the Sea Saturday is not mentioned anywhere in any document, but this gentleman sitting there mentions the mayor with ugly words. [[advertising from the hall]] I can't let that happen. I don't want to be his lawyer either, but you let him. However, this is not the final reason that I have applied for the word, because this abuse of this national assembly has been quite clearly pointed out by my colleague Matjaž Germany. What I do not understand today, Mr Vice-President, is that you will not accidentally interrupt me again, but why did this minister do something similar to my notions, Mrs Simona Kustec, a very incompetent minister, when she spoke of something she did not know when she was defending herself. She was talking about epidemiology. Epidemics. About the crown and so on. And so did your minister. And you know, when I listen to a construction engineer or a defense attorney who tells me about the epidemic, I immediately remember a cyclist who wants to fly a plane. Lucky there's no one's gonna let him do that. The problem with Slovenia, however, is to allow construction engineers, defenders, pediatricians and urologists to fight the epidemic. Why am I talking about this? Because, I know the elections are here, but you know, these hundreds of days are gonna turn out so badly that we don't even know it. I also know what the result will be. And I know what the result will be, because it's just enough to look at the polls, how many people think you're doing bad. You know, people say what you think we can't say, but you're doing very badly. I also know that, unlike some other countries, we will be talking about the covida-19 epidemic at the time of the election itself. And of course, you will try to prove that the opposition is responsible for your incompetentness and that we have so many and so many unnecessary victims. However, what I wish to make clear to you again, as I said to Mrs Simoni Kustec. The first moment you took power, we have offered you something from the Social Democrats and the opposition as a whole. We have told you that we are all aware that the epidemic is a very serious matter and that we are prepared at the time of the epidemic not to act as some ordinary opposition, but together to prepare the best measures. I don't know if you remember, that's why I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, because you've spoken contrary to evil and false and false things, and that's all I'm afraid of. I know how you hit the bridge. What if you cut the rest of the things you talked about so easily? Look, already at the first PKP, not only did we talk about what our proposals are, we have prepared a manual for you. We physically handed him over to the Prime Minister. It's been taken into account as much as you can imagine. It was not taken into account. Then we came the Social Democrats, including other opposition parties, with a whole range of concrete proposals. Not long ago, I read you only an excerpt of 34 proposals that have been the subject of proposals from the opposition to the coalition since you took it forward with a proposal to take them into account. Let me remind you. One of the first discussions on the committees, through written questions and initiatives, I can list them, I have them in front of me, was that we have detected in Slovenia that we have a problem, that people are afraid of vaccinations, that they are afraid of vaccinations and that sooner or later a human-19 vaccine will be invented and registered and can be used and that if we do not move quickly into one wide-ranging action of mutual information and open dialogue, we will have a problem. If you look at all the government's answers, all the answers from the competent minister, you will see that these well-intentioned, most useful calls from the opposition have been thrown into the basket. Next thing I want to talk about. We warned you very quickly that, in fact, confidence in the general public is needed if we are to control the epidemic. The trust of the general public is created in three or four ways. First of all, experts in a specific field speak professionally. I'll tell you a million now. If we have eye problems, we don't go to the dermatologist, if we have problems with oncogenic disease, we don't go to the urologist, if we have an infectious disease, we don't go to the pediatrician. But if we're dealing with an epidemic and we don't want to go to any of them, we want an epidemiologist. And you've completely eliminated epidemiologists. This has been seen, this has also been demonstrated on the competent investigative commissions, and this will be the main reason why the measures are unsystematic, unpredictable and do not give rise to confidence. Then, we, the Social Democrats and the wider opposition, through the various methods that we have at our disposal, have warned, proposed and requested. I remember, at some point when I warned you again, I suggested to your government that this was a terrible problem that would cause us to be very weak as a country, the government did something that I thought was okay. She replied: “Then you should suggest who the members of this group should be and how they should work.”
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u283	My fellow Jew, we do not have the Minister of Health's interpretation, but the Minister of the Interior. We do not have the Government's interpretation and the government's actions, but we do have a specific minister with concrete effects. I suggest you get back to the content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u284	Look, you can also tell me directly, you're the opposition, be quiet. You can also tell me that you have no right to answer what this minister, your minister, your vice president, has claimed. You can tell me, but then I'll tell you that we came directly to the dictatorship. As long as we are in parliamentary democracy, I, as an opposition Member, have the right to respond to his mistaken claims. Is there anything I don't understand, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u285	You can answer to your claims. Even on the statements made by its Members, there is no problem, we are just talking about the problems or the eyewitnesses that you have addressed to the Minister of the Interior, not the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u286	That's what I'm talking about. The Minister's defence here was that he made it clear who the real Minister of Health is in this government. He was talking about it. Well, look, when there were press conferences, who proposed the decrees. The decrees were not proposed by epidemiologists. Actually, I have to talk about it because then there's the wrong impression, because I know they're pre-election natures, but they're wrong. Next thing. Minister, what you've missed completely. You're attacking us, how wrong we are in our relationship to the epidemic. Are you aware that the Group of Social Democrats was the first to fully apply for vaccination? Or do you know that we were the first ones to demand something; that we do not want an advantage. That we need to be vaccinated when all employees have the same right. All 350 in this national council. And we were vaccinated, and we didn't put it on the big bell, except when we were asked. I'm talking about things showing up with actions, not words. What I would also like to say to you is: Social Democrats, the opposition, experts, for almost a year, we have been warning that most of those countries that are slightly larger have more professional infrastructure, saying that even one case in seven thousand happens outside, infection, everything else inside. Because of yours - you boasted about it yourself - most of the measures were directed towards an open place where people are most safe. For a closed place where they were really threatened, and unlike other countries, we were unable to even get regular air cleaners for 200 euros, which they purchased in Austria, Germany, Canada, they went to doubles, America, and so on. Why? As this increased the safety of children by four times in a closed room. Look, I won't - nothing to be afraid of, Mr Vice President, to build, you'll see the very polite questions sent by you if you ever have time to look at them. The polite parliamentary initiatives, many of them almost sound like a request. What are we asking? Let's do it together! Not because we think that we have all the knowledge of this world, either on our left or on our left or in the middle, but because we speak humbly to experts and with great curiosity, we look at good examples of well - working countries that have done what they have done. We've been giving you suggestions. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u287	Comrade Jew, last warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u288	Yeah, great. Look, I'm aware of the country we live in. But I'm only gonna end up like this. To be a dictator, you're all responsible for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Look, fellas, you've put in an interpolation with the following points: responsibility [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I would like to ask your attention, because obviously, you haven't even read the points when you're discussing interpretation as co-proposers. The first point, the responsibility of the Minister for Disaster Management in the country through the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its ministers; the responsibility of the Minister for the excessive use of repressive means and police violence at protests in Ljubljana is the second point. Third point, anti-constitutional action to restrict human rights in terms of reasonableness with the questionable activation of Article 9 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. Point four, illegal politicisation, militarisation of the police; demeaning, ignorant and unprofessional attitude towards the general public, protestors, police personnel, union representatives, independent state authorities and the professional public, in any way alerting the unconstitutional and illegal conduct of the minister; illegal employment in the police, illegal and illegal threats by the termination of the labour relationship of trade union representatives and employees in the police, alerting to irregularities and the suspicion of the criminal offence of abandonment of the offence, by failing to report the criminal offence to which he was informed. Look, my fellow Jew, there is absolutely no matter here about covid measures, such direct connection with the minister. There are government decisions and so on. In short, don't talk about content that you didn't write in the interpolation and not referring to [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] to the content of your interpolation. Now we go to procedural proposals. First he gets the word for Procedural Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You didn't have to read what we know. What worries me, Mr. Vice President, is where you've been and what you've been doing for so many hours, because if you'd at least listened to something else or listened to the minister, you'd see what the Minister was saying today. He was talking about Masleša, he was talking about mayors, he was talking about teenagers, he was talking about everything, and the debate was going on, and we were carrying out our dialogue undisturbed, respected Vice-President. This is what Parliament and Parliament are doing democratically, as a fellow Jew said we are not going into dictatorship. You unfortunately don't know why you feel this need to interrupt this ongoing dialogue. Sometimes he's a little more lively, more emotional, sometimes a little less. You must understand that even when you conquer a woman, you cannot quickly conquer her. And so it is in rhetoric [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u291	My friend German, you've been late for 20 years or more. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u292	Your Honor, no! No! No! I want to teach you something, Your Honor, about some impatience that you have in you that every monologue that begins begins begins with an introduction. You have to bring your words into some context. You don't respect that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u293	Fellow, stick to the procedural proposal and the application of the Rules of Procedure and leave the rest to [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u294	The procedural proposal, honourable Vice-President, is that you behave as we have been acting all day, allowing dialogue between us and, above all, should be looking for criteria in the Minister. For he has always set a very broad framework for dialogue. What you are doing today and now is always in the way of limiting dialogue to the opposition. It's unfair, it's unfair, it's undemocratic. And please let yourself be restrained, I don't know what internal force is forcing you to do this, but to constantly interrupt the opposition MPs in particular. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u295	Comrade German, slowly finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u296	With all seriousness, Madam Vice President, we've been here 16 hours. I don't know where you've been. We've been listening to all the discussions, obviously you haven't. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u297	I'm giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u298	And you don't understand the difference between us and Minister Hoys. [[…]] And that people get a sense of repression starts with you, because they look at us and see how you limit the democracy of dialogue in Parliament. Parliament, Mr. Vice President. “Parlare”, not “old zitti”!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u299	My German colleague, there's talk in Parliament, but not too much nonsense, that's too bad, see.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u300	Please let yourself be restrained by your internal energy and allow the dialogue in Parliament to be restored. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u301	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. You'll all get ahead, because I wrote it down. See, the debate is going on as you set it up with the opening presentation and the views of the parliamentary groups and in the material that you have submitted and in the material that you have received as a response to what you have tabled. You've gone too far on your own according to the content of the interpolation. Here we listened for sixteen hours or seventeen all, since it was not just you in Parliament, we were also left with Yes, see, because it is not necessary for everyone to be here, even you were missing one six hours in between, that we are clear. [[…]] I'd say, stick to the content, don't go into some verbal bravure that doesn't have any substantive basis. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade German, please don't disturb or jump into words. You'll have your word if you ask. Natasha Sukich has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u302	Yes, Madam President, look, you're in a bit of a binder, as far as your judgment of the vats is concerned. Previously, we listened to a colleague of Doblekar's about the Eizenponars of 1988, and Minister Hojs, who spoke to a number of others today, who did not only follow these seven points of interpretation, but went wider, and then, please, my procedural proposal is that if we are speaking to Minister Hojs today, we should deal with his statements many times beyond this interpretation, and therefore it is logical that our reaction also extends beyond this interpretation and that you have this insight to find out and allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I admit, there is no problem, just a colleague, first look at your discussions and your views of the signatories. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Look at this first, because you've already screwed everything up. My friend Pavšič spoke earlier about everything possible, only the content of the interpretation. And so on. In short, stick to your own criteria that you've set and the content that you've written down. Mag. Marko Koprivc, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u304	Mr. Vice President, what you're doing, I could say it's ridiculous; it's not, it's sad. So far, the debate could have been held normally and also very wide, and we did not place this breadth in the democratic opposition, but it was Hojs, Mr from SDS. And so on. And it is unfair, inappropriate and unworthy, Mr Vice President, that when you come, you always begin to restrict the opposition in the same way. My colleague Dejan Židan had an excellent discussion and did not go beyond the debates we have had so far, but in absolutely no way, because the epidemic is one of the key points Hojs has pointed out. Please don't smile, because what you're doing right now is ridiculous. Very funny, if you do not seriously limit and show a tendency that you just want to end parliamentaryism by referring to your rules of procedure always one and the same. Have the same vats for all because you are currently Vice-President of Parliament, not Member of Janša's party. Have a seat there, if ever, but report to the debate, just like us. [[Incomprehensible]] You have this opportunity, because you are also a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u305	Comrade Koprivc, please [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u306	Excuse me? Can you let me tell you the whole story?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u307	I'll leave it, just stick to the rules and the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u308	You stick to the rules and rules! And don't ruin the opportunity to speak to the opposition, because it was now more than obvious. It was more than obvious. Previously, they were talking about some of the Eizenponers of 1989 and the great heroic struggles of the invaders, but you didn't say anything. Hoys talked about everything possible, not just the epidemic, the stolen villa of the Social Democrats, but nobody responded. But you took the word out of dean jedan, because he started the case with an epidemic, which, among other things, we've been interpreting Aleš Hojs, because of the decrees that were taken in contra-constitutionally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u309	Easy, easy, buddy. Look, I warned my fellow Jew earlier that the interpretation of Minister Hojs was with the contents and points you cited. We do not have the interpretation of the Minister of Health and not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That's all I've ever warned you. And if you read my colleague Dejan jeedan's discussion again, you'll find that he didn't say practically nothing, [[advertising from the hall]] absolutely nothing about interpolation, but about everything else. Dejan Židan has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To make you understand, as a man who knows the rules of procedure, you also know when I was still president of the National Assembly, we talked about this a lot, but [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] And don't bother, Mr. Pojbich, the president when I speak to him. Can you at least do that? Thank you. I just wanted to say that I didn't even intend to apply, because people who know this area more than I do until I sat here and found out what Mr Hojs is saying: an attack by a mayor who is not present acts as a minister of health, which I know is that a lot of the wrong decree was his butter. And I reacted to his words. What I'm trying to say is, I just want to have an equal relationship, and whoever's sitting in your seat is there. I know the president, the vice presidents are changing for two hours, but now I don't know, but you're going to force us to look at the stopwatch, when Tina is, when she's from the opposition, who isn't the opposition, but she's a coalition, or when Zorčič is, who knows best where she is sometimes, and when you are. Do we really need to tempt our work now, or will we expect an equal relationship? And there's something else I'd like to warn you. The opposition is by definition the weaker side. The weaker side is sometimes allowed even more because of the essence of an ethical relationship, although this is an unwritten rule. It is quite unacceptable, however, that less is allowed, in particular, to allow the opposition less than the SDS Vice-President, who is at the same time the head of the most repressive authority in this government; the person who must be most controlled in this House. And you can't let us do less than him! My proposal is procedural, give us the opportunity to respond to the allegations made here by the present Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u311	Thank you very much. All of this is allowed, no problem, I just warned you, my fellow Jew, only that it is not the intervention of the Minister of Health or the Government, but the Minister of the Interior. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural proposal is made by Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u312	I, the chairman, protest. You give me as an example of how this is not to be discussed, and let me just read the first item from the interpretation: the responsibilities of the Minister for generating state emergency situations by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its ministers. We can talk about anything in the last year and a half, because every thing about the work of Minister Hojs or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a matter of content of this interpretation. And if we were listening at the beginning to explain the epidemic up, the epidemic down, the viruses, the protests, the masks, the masks, the spread of the virus, the vaccinations, I don't know why we couldn't do it in the debates. So what you're doing, president, is wrong and you're not fair. But I also think that your interpretation of the interpretation of the interpretation of the interpretation does not satisfy both substantive and business requirements.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Bojana Muršič also has the floor for the motion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. This jumping into words is already your mode of operation, but still. I suggest that because a colleague of the Jews spoke about the content of the interpretation and also referred to what Minister Hojs said in the introduction; I suggest, if you didn't listen to all 16 hours of debate to interrupt this meeting, look at the magnetogram, which is nice - and I can tell you what time period - you were talking, and look at this. And then leave our debate in such a way that it will also follow the Minister's answers. I absolutely suggest that because I believe you couldn't listen for 16 hours to stop this session, you read the tape, and then we continue this session. For such jumping into the word of the members of the opposition is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u315	Thank you very much. We'll continue the session. Since I have been monitoring, except for one short period in between, practically the entire meeting. I propose that we proceed with the debate. Nataša skirt - procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u316	Dear President! Look, once again, I ask you to stop - this is my procedural proposal - that you really stop cutting down our debates. Because with such provocations of the opposition, you are one of those who creates a state of emergency by creating chaos in Parliament. It's simple. Such provocative methods, which you are also implementing today unfortunately here, have been created several times in the last period, by Minister Hojs with his own tweets and so on. These are the things, my dear. The provocations; the provocations in Parliament, the provocations of the people, this creates extraordinary conditions and chaos in the country. So I ask you to stop this unsustainable practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u317	Thank you very much. I think it is the duty of the President to point out when he thinks the matter is not going in the right direction as far as the debate is concerned. We continue the debate. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. And behind her is Carmen Cosmus Ferrian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Good evening to all, perhaps even to those who are still watching and listening! Some are sure, for in the middle of this ping-pong, I have received some messages with the following content. To sum up: “The abstinence crisis on the left is getting worse. It’s so bad that they’re not actually capable of any normal communication anymore, but it’s just a matter of casual behavior.” This is what citizens and citizens tell you. Of course you can talk about polls, you can talk about the dimensions of public opinion, but the only credible thing is what citizens say themselves. And I have to answer the questions you've raised. Now, if someone says they're not part of today's interpolation, they're part of your performances. Now, first that [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] President, can you guarantee peace?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u319	May I have your attention and peace in the hall? [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. Look, Bandelli, I'm asking you to stay in line. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u320	In short, we keep hearing that we're fascists, dictatorships and so on, but say, who worships dictators in this country? [[There's a riot in the hall.]] One and the same. But we're talking, and today we're hearing that we're instituting a dictatorship. Only if it's not yours and the way you want it, then there's dictatorship and fascism in the country. That's all you know. But please put yourself in the hands of someone else and know that someone else is in power now and that you let us work. Now the answers to the specific cases you have accused the Minister. I keep, you know, hearing about how some envelope was given about his resignation. Do you know Mr. Sabeder's envelope? You know that? [[advertising from the hall and laughter in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u321	And what was that envelope like? She was with a resignation statement. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u322	Marko Bandelli, a reminder. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Look, let him discuss it. And I'm in charge of the session. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] And I'll warn you when I have to. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u323	Thank you very much. I hope time stops. I believe that Mr Šarec, who is sitting here, will also admit that he had this envelope on his desk. And then the minister said he wanted to make two more marriages and then leave. So he kept an envelope on his desk the whole time. So stop with those envelopes. You've had the ministers drop out and give you envelopes, but you didn't do it. Come in. You mentioned that you should not mention someone who was once the first man of the Criminal Police and then was in politics in the SD. Why can't he be mentioned? You're talking about politics today, it's happening at the police station, but you've literally come from the top of the crime scene of your kind. These are your double standards. Mr Hojs, it's interesting, but I think it's only in this National Assembly and that people don't look at it that way, you've been given a successful internal affairs presidency, even the Lithuania Prize and congratulations; but you know, you're being intertwined with us. That's how it goes. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u324	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u325	So, you get a reward elsewhere, and with us for your success, they're interpolating the good work. But, as a matter of fact, it's in this national council. That's not what people think. There was a lot of talk about politics, and why no one remembers how unionists, police unionists, reported former Minister Poklukar for the employment of Rupnik. He hired a gentleman in his office. But you know where he worked? In the Gothnica. The hotel is based on this hierarchy or organigram under the Bureau of Logistics, but Rupnik was as representative of the Cabinet as he could in Gotenica and everyone knew why. Because he was there and he needed a long way to work. And the police reported it because they themselves said they were driving 100 kilometers to their jobs, and they were not helped to get a job anywhere nearer. It's politicization, respectable, and that's what's been going on! As for meetings and so on. You can say today that no one can take away your right to attend meetings. It's true, no one. Even if you're attending different events, you're not. But listen, if you're responsible, because you like to talk about how to follow all the rules in the country, but I guess you'll go to that meeting that was announced. Or you will go where there is a violation of the law and there is an undeclared meeting, and we have already given taxpayers more than millions of euros; so that someone will set up a microphone there illegally, that someone there has an act of illegality, and that it is illegal to waste money on the streets, that people cannot do their job. I even heard that Ljubljana was gassed. You know, I know the cases where the ladies walked out of this meeting with a wheelchair and they were met by a gentleman and he was a little surprised -- such a small child -- and he looked. Do you know what was in the wheelchair? Bag! This was also the way they wanted to say who was going to the meetings and that this was how they wanted to literally hurt their families and put them to work. You know, my grandfather survived one bad camp where it really drooled, and it's kind of grotesque when I hear it from the politics, and yet we're people from the same country. Let me conclude only with the words that he brings to us or that he was brought to this National Assembly by the scouts at the Bethlehem Light when they said: “In the beginning is the word. If it's a nice word, talk and do all the work. If the word is ugly in the beginning, everything is done uglyly, it is looked at and done uglyly." Your Honor, try to come to this beautiful side for once. One more thing. This is for a clean ending. A lie, a lie, a lie, that there were no controls. There were controls over Members of Parliament. They were, but we still haven't gotten to the bottom of this. But they were! One of the Members has very specific things and, of course, the matter has not yet been concluded or some want to put it under the rug. But it is true that more than anyone else was interested in what eventually came out, that it happened in the prosecution, that there was information leaking about the serious mafia business. From the D.A.'s office, someone wanted this to come from the police and that Mr. Hoys would be responsible for it. But that's what went wrong with him, too. And that person knows exactly who I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Procedural replica, replica of Dejan jedan. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u327	The part where this Member mentioned one mayor again. You didn't understand what I'm trying to tell you, if we're talking about friendly, Bethlehem, peaceful, respectful and ethical things, then attack people when they're there to defend themselves. But if you're talking about Bethlehem's things and you're attacking people who aren't there, believe me, it's not a Bethlehem light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Proposer Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before I explain something, it's just that you're somehow aware. Every time, Mr. Vice President, you show up in that chair in this room, I'm not gonna say it's chaos, but it's over. And this usually happens because you are substantively involved in the debates of Members and Members. You say you have the same vats for everyone, and we just saw that that's not the case. So kindly please, the bad two hours are still ahead of us, and somehow I don't think it's right for us to argue with procedural proposals and things at midnight. So, please, stick to the rules of procedure, too, and no problem. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. When you talk about the resignation of the Minister of the Interior and some envelopes in the previous government, I would like to make one point. Look, the Minister of the Interior, on that day when he just resigned, I don't remember when it was, said he was irrevocably resigning from his post as Minister of the Interior, that he had already submitted his resignation to Prime Minister Janez Janša. He said this at the press conference, to the media in the eyes, who, of course, published it, and that Mr Janez Janša had accepted his resignation. At the same moment, of course, the general director of Travner Police also resigned, or earlier. And the Minister, despite your resignation, you're still here today. But you know what I'm really interested in? That's what I'd really like you to tell me. This envelope, famous, tell me when it came from the Prime Minister back to you, whether it was open or closed. I'm really interested in knowing if he was lying or if you're lying all the time. Because this is such a direct abuse of our legal institutions and such a dangerous precedent — and I have already told you several times when we spoke in this Chamber that I will always remind you of that. Because what you have done, Minister, has been announced to the public that you are irrevocably resigning from the post of Minister of the Interior and then silently as if nothing had happened, it is a European, not just a Slovenian precedent. Thus, it is possible that the password of the irrevocable departure may be remembered if you remember all the other things that occur in this hall, however. Well, before I take some time to explain what was said a little earlier, and what was revealed, what was being investigated and what was not. [[…]] My colleague Kaloh spoke earlier about matters related to the use of gas and forcible resources, when the Commission found out that everything was okay, great, no problem at all. No, of course it is not true and there is very clear evidence for this. I have here before me a report from the commission to verify the use of these coercive funds. As you can see, it's very black because I don't know what all this information is about, except, of course, when it comes to personal data, which is completely understandable. Well, the Commission has found that in a large number of police unit footage obtained, only the use of coercive means is visible, but there is no record of a violation, which in certain cases raises doubts as to whether there has been any mass violations. Secondly, the Commission is of the opinion that there were no reasons on the Celovska Road for the crowds from a specialised water cannon vehicle not to draw attention to the possible use of coercive means. That wasn't done. Thirdly, as a non-professional, the commission assessed the event when members of the Ljubljana Police Station directed the Chopova towards Prešeren's market by firing gas bullets with the wrong choice – with a longer range – that fell to that market, where there was no one violating public order and peace. The market was almost empty, and the gas spread against members of other police units from Murska Sobota and the passersby. So the minister, right, and the colleagues over there, don't say that everything was fine if everything wasn't all right anymore and the police themselves find that out. But these documents are public, and what's the problem? [[…]] It's like we're all stupid here without reading anything. That's enough of this seduction, please. Because it creates some impression, you make it work perfectly, and in the background, some very severe lever to take over all areas of the Slovenian police. Well, and if I return quickly to the investigative commission investigating what we read to Minister Hojs and have been proven in certain parts, this political interference with the work of the police and direct instructions is clear from the investigator — if someone has followed — and also from her reports. Finally, it is very understandable that there is a friend of the President of the Government and of her friends at the NPU, who, among other things, the distinguished minister, still holds a position of employment illegally, which the court has also told you, but of course you do not respect these judgments of the court, you work for your friends. That's pretty obvious, isn't it, because when it was determined to control the investigations of Minister Restovalska - now we know this - your television, Nova24, knew about the investigations and was informed of what was going to happen the day before these investigations happened. Of course, you turned it into us Members and other media, if we have hunters because we are part of this deep country, of course, which you are making yourself. If we go a little further into the area of the investigative commission. The commission of inquiry has already heard a number of witnesses, from former directors to investigators, from those who are still faithful to you, to those who are no longer yours, and to those whom you have planned and which have somehow embroiled from your position to achieve your goals. Do you know, Minister, you can go to this OKC, CVZ all the time, whatever, because it's still, of course, after some final events and, if so, you're going in, you're there quietly and you're watching. Now, because we're not crazy here to believe that you're there quietly and just observing it because it's not your way of working, because we see it all the time, that you regularly and very systematically fit in. Also from these hearings - pardon, not listening - it was clear from this investigative session that these pressures were also exerted on these centers, on those who worked there, of course. Well, let's move on. As I said before, information from your ministry is, of course, leaking further to your friends who are in certain investigations, but all those who have been questioned in most, well, of course, say that these pressures you are actually exerting on this Slovenian FBI or the National Investigation Office are really great. You've taken a lot of people away from these, so-called, working groups that don't serve anyone. These are actually criminal waters because people are withdrawn and do not have access to any data and can in fact access only and only e-mail. Of course, this country costs something, and this guilt is only on you and on you alone. And even on this investigative committee, some of your members asked why these investigations were taking place. And the investigators have made it clear to you that because the police are responsible for investigating crimes. And in these cases, which are being investigated; that is, against the SDS party, against Minister Restovalska, against the last man, who is close to the Government and the ruling party, is because there are suspicions of criminal services. If I go any further and go to the director, the current director of the General Police Administration, this man does not actually cultivate any confidence in the police and even less in the public. This man, who you actually called from retirement, is somehow synonymous with what we also acknowledge to you that you have a direct influence on police recruitment through him and thus influence the police's politicization in its entire domain. And these allegations of political pressure have already been proven in the work of the commission of inquiry, I am sure that both the interim and the final report will clearly prove this. Also, what happens at the NPU, I tell you once again, the insistence on your policy, or on you personally or anyone else, that Petra Grah Lazar is acting as director of the National Investigation Office, is illegal. This was decided by the court, which ordered you to return to this post to the former director who was dismissed. But well, look, I don't care who's in charge of this town if it's competent and has experience. He doesn't have any. Nothing at all. Well, then, Mr. Travner, since I said earlier that he resigned with you, only that he really is not here anymore, you are still, who made it clear that many must go, that Bosniak Lindav must go and that this is an order of policy that will always deny it, but it is an order of policy. And even then, Travner, who was obviously very fond of talking, also mentioned that Mrs Bobnar, the only condition on the part of the policy for taking over his post, was to replace the Director of the Male at the NPU and, of course, him, that is, Boštjana Lindava. So it is quite clear that if you go very well into the work of the commission of inquiry, I have read it all Saturday, as one very interesting criminal reads, you find inside full of Indians, Minister, how you personally and with your other people affect certain procedures that are not within your jurisdiction, and of course you are also involved in premonition and criminal proceedings. And with all of this, the minister is dropping the reputation of the Slovenian police, falling down what we've been making for several years. Last but not least, many of them have also testified, because they are ashamed to work in the ministry, which is run by you, who acts so unprofessionally and so politically. Many who have worked in the police for more than 30 years in areas of expertise and are now withdrawn where they cannot operate. Also, Mrs Tatjano Bobnar, you have now withdrawn to Tacen, a witness to this illness you have at the Ministry of the Interior. The first is that Secretary of State Kangler didn't want to look down the hall, and that she went to the other end of the office, then there was a problem, because there was a door at the end of the office, and there was a way in, and people walked through it, and in order not to see it, it had to be moved somewhere else. It's kind of like we're in a movie and it's not really happening on a structure like the Slovenian police and the Ministry of the Interior. In all of this, there have also been widespread investigations into this epidemic and your involvement in political structures, and I think that this should also be investigated accordingly. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you, Lydia. It is clear that Olaj is also working according to your instructions, Minister, including on Twitter, not only directly or indirectly, and that we do not know everything yet. It just hurts in this situation in the police department. As I said - and I've already said this - the reputation of the police at the bottom and as low as today's minister has never been. I believe, however, I will now stop by to have a few more minutes to conclude that the readings from the interpretation were clearly explained and, of course, without any difficulty proveable. However, somehow quietly I hope that someone, even those who were initially here from Desus, will be insulted if they don't fit into politics, that they have mixed leadership, and I don't know what else, now I've forgotten because it's going to be 14 hours ago to just decide and tell where they belong clearly. That's so much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u330	Thank you very much. The replica of Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u331	Chairman, just a brief replica. I made it clear earlier that I don't know why you're so busy with the so-called envelope that Aleš Hojs gave if you had a minister who made it clear that he gave Bianca a resignation statement. This one probably wasn't even in the envelope. So she was on your Prime Minister's desk. Only then did he say that only after the President of the Government had resigned and Bertonzel had also resigned. And that's when Shabeder said it out loud. But 14 days before that, he gave the first minister Bianca a resignation. And let's get on with it. You guys broke up. What do you read to Mr. Hoys? He's a minister. The Prime Minister trusts him, and he's a good minister. My fellow Jew, look, you're always trying to say that these are slanders if you mention Jevšnik, Jevška [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, that's not true. You're not ashamed he's a member of your party, are you? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Procedural colleague of the Jews. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u333	But I condemn the suggestion that you give a reminder. The lady took advantage of the opportunity to put a replica on the replica without being allowed to do so. That's contrary to the Bethlehem light, by the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u334	Thank you very much for the suggestion. I don't think this part was anything wrong, but it went the right way. Carmen Furman, or Carmen Cosmus Ferrjan, gets the word of Jerco Korča. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u335	Thank you so much for saying that. I will focus on the mere interpolation or on the points cited by the proponents. Interpellation is long, extensive, and I'll be briefer. In fact, point number two, if I quote you, says: “The police have caused a few hours of savagery around the city by their actions.” It's as if the cops were beating themselves up in the city, hurting themselves, destroying cars themselves, destroying foreign property, throwing firecrackers under horses. Look, I understand, you're the opposition, the minister is not at your heart, you don't like it, but this sentence, "Police have caused a few hours of savagery around the city," is in the first place an insult to the police. That seems really insulting to the police. You have also written "necaural divorcise around the city". And yes, because of this several-hour rampage around the city, the roads were impenetrable. I can't imagine how much trouble it would be if I had to, say, take my child to the hospital at that point. Thank God, I haven't been to this place. As long as nothing happens, maybe things are fun for someone, maybe you can apologize. But what if something happened? What if there was something worse? Below, on page 7, you stated in point two: “Protests are taking place because of restrictive measures that enable political expression, while ensuring respect for self-protection measures to prevent the spread of the virus”. [[…]] I believe you're all well-designed and you can find pictures online. In these pictures you will find it very difficult to find a sufficient number of people with masks, but you prefer not to look for distances. Believe me, no one's standing two feet from each other. In point 4, you read the Minister's visits to police stations. He's the Minister of the Interior. Where is he supposed to go? Do you want him to go to a tourist farm? Of course, it is part of the government's regional visits to police stations. But because it seems very controversial to you, and I'm worried that next time we'll have Minister Poklukar here, because he's going to hospitals and health homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Jerco Korče has the word, and she will be given the word Natasha Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u337	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, I've had the opportunity today to practically even monitor the interpretation from home and basically, I'll say, the biggest pain I have, is that colleagues in the coalition don't realize that regardless of our differences, we have a variety of things in common or we should be together, and that's the constitution, that's the laws. And, in particular, the third observation that goes to the Minister in interpreting the illegal limitation of human rights should be a sufficient reason why such a person is no longer a minister. This is because we have a division of power in the constitution into executive, legislative and judicial. And the Minister, who is conscious — and today he also said that he would do so once again — unlawfully restrict human rights, that is, without the legal basis adopted in the National Assembly, he also violated the principle of the division of power. A man like that can't be a minister. And it's sad that most people don't know it in this national convention. Why? Because even when the government changes when Parliament changes, when I am a Member, I will not be a Member, it is totally irrelevant that this country will remain. Today, we are pushing — or you are pushing your actions — the way to become normal, that there is no legal basis, and that the government can do whatever it pleases. It's a practice you're introducing. And that kind of practice isn't harmful, but it's terrible. Conscious that we have a common country and that this is how you tear it down; and, yes, break the democratic foundation of our constitutional regime. That's terrible, but you don't realize it, but it's over. And one thing: we push through these actions or through the actions of most Members, we pressure standards, which is political responsibility. I wonder, here I would be very happy if the coalition had the answer to what the standard of taking political responsibility is for you today. It is no longer the standard to have a minister in court for tax evasion and counterfeiting of business documents, which is no longer the standard. You're a coma under these conditions, Minister. You're trapped in some conversation where you say taxes are stupid, and if I put that statement aside, you're going to have to do it, and we're going to break some balls; we're going to break the judges' balls. And this is said by someone who was in a political position at the time and today takes over or takes over the political situation in our country. This is also no longer the standard for resignation. The fact that we have Minister Hojs if we leave all the other evidence on the side that consciously claims today that he would have done the same, so without a legal basis, he would have taken decisions, broken down the division of power, that is also normal, and that is no longer the standard for taking responsibility. I sincerely hope that you will sit in the opposition after April 24th, but then ask yourself what kind of interpretation you will be able to make, because there is no longer a standard; because you let them down so low that any future government minister may be held accountable. That standard's gone. But you set this scale! You let her down so low, there's no answer to what political responsibility is. Yes, people have resigned because of today's position of absurd matters, but knowing that their ego and their name and their name are not more important than the country and that at that moment they put themselves in a mirror, they take political responsibility and do something for the future. So it puts hygiene and political standards above its name and name, over its ego and over its political function and its benefit. And that's a good policy! I think that Mr Hoys could do anything, not say any, but a lot of other professions are probably completely sovereign and totally okay. He must have been the most suitable director of New 24, we can give him that. But we can also admit or make it clear that this does not mean that it is fit for politics. And Minister Hojs or Mr Hojs is not fit for politics! He is not fit for politics from two very important things. Unfortunately, we got such a man into a political situation right at the time of the epidemic, when he should have two characteristics that are also important in a perfectly normal situation or are crucial to the exercise of a political function, and even more at the time of the epidemic; and that is that you have confidence in people and that you can communicate. Even if you know that Minister Hoys absolutely can't communicate, communicates in a completely disrespectful way, regrets, distracts anyone who doubts a matter, slightly brutal attacks with one tweet or so, direct into the camera. Even the press, the Constitutional Court. Nothing is sacred. And communication at the time of the epidemic was what you probably realize was wrong, that the epidemic went where it went. But no! You have even sent Mr. Hojs as one of the main communicators who knows everything: at least the legal part, but most recently we have also seen him in terms of personnel, energy, epidemics - in short, a connoisseur of all matters - who has been walking and communicating with the public with the position of minister, the representative of the government. [[…]] And it is clear or logical that from communication people became confused, they had no confidence. Whatever the government said at a certain point, it came upon the white wall because of broken trust and miscommunication. And the failure of the epidemic could be a reason or a reason after the second wave for those who would, of course, be politicians to take responsibility and leave power. Yeah, sometimes you give up power for that, too. You can step down because you're a Democrat and you realize that the resignation is nothing but a struggle for every voice is not worth keeping in power at all costs. You can either go to the third egg or barant for every voice, fly around the office, offer some kind of offer, yes, buy votes with some candy, or put points on some of the next sessions, because you know you don't have enough votes. But you can be a normal Democrat, get to know and give up, or another option, when you find out or miss that your resignation is going to be a burden to the system, a return to confidence to enable better communication. Finally, you might give someone else a chance to see that you're so incompetent yourself, that you failed, whatever you got, and that the consequences are on people, on lives, if you want. And then you're able to tell us that we have abstinence because we're not in power! I have absolutely no abstinence; yet, I understand how much easier it is to be in opposition. And you get abstinence when you've been rounding up and rounding up for months just to get some extra paddling, additionally pumping money through such and different channels to some of your own or your portals, through advertising, and so on. I'm sure these things will come to fruition. Well, if only what's in public today, if that's the top of the iceberg, then that's terrible. And then you're still able to brag about what you've done at the expense of the confidence of not one generation, of the generations that are coming after us, at the expense of other future generations today, if this government is great. Yes, as it is said, Mr Hojs could have done any other profession, but for politics he is extremely inappropriate and I have already been at the hearing and I have highlighted this very aspect because it is still necessary to assess the individual's personality characteristics, whether he will be able to gain confidence. No, more than that, you put him on a repressive column! And yes, third impression of interpolation about the illegal limitation of human rights. Enough! Suffice it to say that Mr Hoys should no longer sit as a minister. Regrets me, indeed, that we have come into a state where individuals are drawn to their sleeves and do not know what to do today, that they will not even be here today, because they have no face or stand for their decision and say, I support Minister Hojs, because he is a good minister, and to argue why I support the minister, or to say, look, I stand for today's interpretation, because I am not looking at myself, I am not looking at two more, three more wages that I have before me, but I am looking at this country, and I am looking at that I am now responsible for the standards of taking political responsibility from this chair. And once again: I strongly and wholeheartedly hope that after April you will sit in the opposition and realize that any of you will be a Member, you will no longer be able to invest any more interpretation. Because what you're going to put in the interpolation if it's not enough for you to have someone in a court of law who's trapped in the hearings when they're three balls away from the judges, leaving this school secretary who's been incompetent or unable to run it at all. If we put this aside, you're going to fall on specific matters. And what you've been putting into interpolation for! But today, when you have the interpolation that's standing in front of you, you've turned the board around because you change the recorder, you open it, you change the tape and the trumpets. The only constant of all of your tapes is that it is all the fault of the deep state and we, who are, I don't know, the core of a deep state, we, born in 1990, deal solely with other things than Kučan, with communism and with what. We respect history and are aware of it because it is right to know what historical facts are and how we have come to an independent state, but we are dealing with the future, with completely different problems and problems. But it'll be a stop for you. Because you need conspiracy theories that this ointment is for your engine, which constantly whines in the same way: tan-tan, tan-tan, tan-tan. That's what you do!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukič has the word, and Matjaž Han will get it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u339	Thank you. Look, Minister Hojs defends himself today, just as Minister Vizjak defended himself, [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u340	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u341	by interpolating everyone else as if he were not an interpolated person. [[…]] He's talking about people who today, say, aren't here and who, of course, can't defend themselves. Like he's discrediting and hitting the unionists again, and he's making up that they're not doing anything, and they're eating our taxpayer's money. Although we know that there is a third paragraph of Article 89 of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police, which clearly states that it can [[There's a riot in the hall.]] - but please have some peace, but - so that a union confidant can do the job professionally. This is also provided for in Article 45 of the Collective Treaty on Non-economic Activities. But the minister lies, lies and lies all the time. And discrediting the unionists. Next. Today's interpretation is again used by the minister to discredit and attack the former Police Director-General Tatjano Bobnar. Why? That's what the Minister knows. Of course she can't defend herself. But you're a minister. That's very interesting. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u342	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u343	obsessed with it, because you've been saying this all along in the last period, as if it were some kind of femme fatale or something. [[…]] That's funny! But all of these are, respected and respected, typical political subjugation and police acquisitions. All of these have been seen in history by authoritarian methods of politicisation and militarization of the police, which unfortunately smell of the past history after some dark times. Of course, the minister likes to use the method of discredit on Twitter. So we are citizens of the pig, and the idolaters of Hitler are pearls, and the unionists are swine and lazy. Are you going to say that these are the qualities of some minister with integrity? They're not, Minister Hoys, they're not! The Minister is also convinced that by his work he defends public interest, with water cannon, gas and weight and fines, he defends public order and peace; by lustration at the police he defends citizens from the forces of continuity and screeching mobsters; by working at the NPU, by removing top criminalists Antolovič and Kekca to some county criminal group for migration and in Tacen – because you know too much about the affairs of various Restorants and Snowmen – and by defending the country from economic crime in a way that opens or revises only certain old cases. Those around whom the SDS party has created various imaginary affairs as ammunition against political opponents and closes current cases concerning ministers of this government and various friends from the SDS networks. Makes sense, doesn't it? How did these networks come to be? Yes, the first government of Janez Janša then created tycoons by amending the legislation, resulting in various tycoon networks that touch and intertwine with a party to the SDS. And that's what you need to put under the rug. The Minister, of course, operates according to the standards of this government. It undermines democratic standards, but it represents some partisan interests, corruption, harmful, untransparent and even illegal practices, but of course all of this is not a problem. Unfortunately, this is a typical new modus operandi of this government, which I said perfectly on Friday, framed by the exact statement of Minister Viszak, we will already blow the judge's balls out of the "stupid taxes" affair. Did Minister Hojs accidentally initiate an investigation into this corruption of his client colleague? It's not! He is more interested in the alleged illegality of the footage, not only in the fact that Vizjak bought it by taking over a state company, advised against paying stupid taxes and promised the judge that they would already break the balls. After the events of October 5th, we should actually have all the alarms ringing in our country, because such brutal forces are not the police against their own citizens and use citizens at all: not in Yugoslavia and not in the Republic of Slovenia. October Black Tuesday is a dangerous turning point that we should be worried about, but not that you literally applaud and chant these brutalitys from under the tactics of Minister Hojs and his faithful suitor Dr. Olai. That's how lead regimes begin, respectable, that's how democracy dies! This creates, if you want, the Fascism of a society; precisely by such methods as Members and Members of the coalition you see as commendable actions to preserve public order and peace. Is the tear in the eyes of the elderly, in the eyes of the schoolers, in the eyes of the children on the playgrounds, the random passersby really something that's right? Are you going to say you didn't implode the Ljubljanas? I came home from Parliament alone at 4:30 p.m., and there was a fog over the streets, so I could see practically nothing. The fog was so thick that if someone stood in front of a government palace where, I don't know, the neon metric letters said democracy, you wouldn't see it. So dense was the fog, respected and respected, if you understand what I'm saying? As for the tear gas, when you commit yourself, esteemed colleague Kaloh, Amnesty International wrote, “They want to convince us that tear gas is a safe method for triggering violent protests This weapon is called less lethal –”and therefore immortal.” [[…]] It is not really designed to kill, but it can cause death.” And so on, your respects, so you won't get carried away. In short, we have a minister who thinks being an interior minister is something like an account at O.K. Corral, and such a minister should have left yesterday. It's about time he left today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Before I give the word to Matjaž Han, I ask all those who cause unrest in the hall to have these conversations in front of the hall and let those who still have a word, or those two who will receive another word, hold discussions in peace. Matjaž Han has the word, and after him as the last magician. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Well, let's just say I'm sorry that I'm actually picking up in the morning. I know that you are all already considered after these two interpretations, but allow me to share a few thoughts, which, of course, will not help this, at least I do not believe that I will convince any of the Members or Members of Parliament to support the interpolation, but it is the task of the opposition to point out the irregularities that are taking place in a society to which ministers or ministers are guilty. First of all, I hope that we are all aware that this Slovenia is not in an enviable position, that we are still in a very strong health crisis, which is called covid, that they are already new viruses and that they are simply not Slovenia, not Europe, or the world cannot come out of this state, because sometimes we all imagine that we are dreaming that it is not so. Slovenia is an unknown reason for me in the situation we are in. It was just my dream. However, to be in such a situation is, of course, the greatest responsibility of the ruling team. However, we are responsible — perhaps even in opposition — for some things. But we are in a position to expect them to solve this situation and to be the Chief Minister of Health in this situation, perhaps even after the economic minister, because we are also in the economic crisis. No, but in Slovenia the main speaker, the main man who communicates all life, is the Minister of the Interior. As a result, we are probably even worse off than anyone else would have wanted. We have come into a situation that is respected when we must – and let us all imagine it together – when police officers have to protect us from reaching our cars from Parliament. In my 15-year career, I never imagined that he would have to me, at least because I don't think I'm a conflict man, who's gonna protect myself when I go from Parliament to my car. And they protect us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. From this place I thank them immensely because there are not so many nice people before Parliament; when they are standing in the snow, in the rain, in the cold and protecting us. Cops and cops. If anyone listens to me, at least on behalf of the Social Democrats, I thank them. And, Minister, these aren't brats, and they're not lazy, but they're cops and cops who would probably rather be somewhere else than standing in front of parliament 24 hours a day. Since I said I would be very short, at this time three good men are walking in Slovenia; one is already over, Miklavž is already gone. Santa and Santa are still coming, and I only have one wish. This desire not to be material, I'm going to say such a desire that, in fact, Santa Claus and Santa Claus bring us a new government to actually bring some new hope into this country. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no, you guys, you probably all love Santa Claus. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u346	I'm begging for peace, come on!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u347	And I would like to have an internal minister in Slovenia, who would be almost invisible, who would not comment on every single thing in this world and who would really deal with the problems of police and police, where the Minister of the Interior and the Government would make a clear distinction between the police and politics. I wish the Minister of the Interior, the following, would not be operationally leading police action. I wish the next Minister of the Interior would not be directing active investigations in this country. Even more so, I would like you to be an interior minister, the next interior minister, or the interior minister, not to be subordinated to the human resources loyal to the police. I would very much like to avoid impeding the independent work of the National Investigation Office. And I would most like the next minister not to offend his subordinates and citizens. I hope that if Santa and Santa hear me, that wish will come true. But if they don't hear me, I believe that this wish will be fulfilled by the voters and voters on April 24th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u348	Thank you very much. The last one gets the word "magic." Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u349	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. In football, some bad team is driving a car, but today's opposition has managed to kill itself with autointerpellation, which is a new political concept, so I can only congratulate you on that. What did you actually prove with all these hours of debate we had in the National Assembly and with the material you presented? Just two: that you know how to drift forever and that you are infinitely afraid of the truth. To make you afraid of the truth, you showed yourself beautifully a little earlier when you stumbled upon the pictures we show when we discuss them. Why? That's because those pictures, like, when Mr. Secretary showed them to you, they put you on a lie right now. And then you can't scream and go into a debate about someone lying and anything like what we've witnessed in the past when it was less used. But it's nothing new, and I've been using this for about 15 years on the experience of 2006, 2007, when you were using this technology. And then the media just wrote that someone was lying, but they didn't write any arguments. If you show a picture, then of course it's clear. And it is obvious that you fear this; ye fear that ye can no longer lie. And as Mr. Havel wrote down, lies are the immortal soul of the left-handed. That means you're gonna lose your soul. I understand that you're in trouble then, that you're afraid of the truth, but the truth comes sooner or later, and in the modern world it's always like this. For this reason, I could remind you once again to show everything if you want to when you have given such a beautiful starting point, Mr Han, why we are actually sitting here. Not because things would start in themselves, as you misrepresent them, but because you systematically, plannedly, thoughtfully, maliciously in voting for power promoted unrest in Slovenia, illegal unrest for more than a year. And when things got out of hand when there was violence, unfortunately that happened, you began to distance yourself unconvincingly from it. That's why the violence happened, and that's why the police had to intervene. And it's your fault, but you're moving in here today! Let me repeat what I said at the beginning, it reminds me of Nero, who burned Rome. And today here 39 little Neros are being transferred, to her, there was violence in Slovenia, terrible. Of course, the violence that you have provoked, which you have deliberately encouraged, which you have strengthened through the media, through all your forms of organization that is available to you and which you have also financed. Even today, one part of this could be seen outside. But it is amazing to me that if it holds that it was the SAZU, that it was also possible to get involved in daily politics. It just tells us how far you're going to get back to power. And then you cheat. We listen all the time: peaceful Fridays protestors. Ladies and gentlemen, at least three of these Friday's protestors have meddled in person with all of my life. The worst case was from Friday's protestors when two gentlemen ran after me and threw granite dice. Granite cubes, ladies and gentlemen, and you're talking about non-violent protestors! In doing so, Mr Vatovac also allowed himself to say that the inscription of the Stone in the hands that I had shown at the beginning was sarcasm. So, granite cubes, we can tell they're left-handed sarcasm. That's a nice expression, and a good one. You'll probably write now that they didn't throw granite cubes at the cops, but you'll say that the cops were touched by left-wing sarcasm. Sounds good. So Orwell, I must say, he's an ordinary apprentice to you when it comes to condescending. Then you're talking about Slovenia needing integration. That is what the SD gentleman specifically stressed. In the same breath, you as the KUL wrote down and said that you would not accept and cooperate with anyone who supports the current government, nor would you cooperate with it in the future. So, the extreme form of exclusion; today you're talking about connection, talking about zero tolerance to violence -- this is a magnetogram -- you're talking about connection instead of closure and exclusion. That's a quote. What a hoax! No one was more entangled in the planned generation of social divisions than you said, no one did more than you did, because you are not in power and would do anything, obviously, and also sacrifice Slovenia and the security of Slovenia and the Slovenians just to get back into power. Slovenia is safe at the moment. It is the safest country in the world, but certainly in Europe. Also recently published on the Internet, the scale is quite eloquent. We are in the first place in Europe for sure, probably even in the world. How valuable this acquisition is and how important it is that it has recently been reinvigorated also by the efforts of the minister you are trying to interpret, of course, it is hardly difficult to understand anyone who has not gone beyond his own borders. Because it's only when you come abroad when you see that you can't go somewhere at night, not a street, but in developed countries -- from Brussels, if you want. Go to Molembeek at night and let me see you! Or if you want to go to the United States. Only then can you see how precious Slovenia is and how precious security is. Because without security, there's nothing. And because of this, it is so much more condemnable that you are striving to bring down this government and to promote the unrest that eventually emerged into violence, so as to achieve this point at which we are today. Interpolation! For the things you have caused yourself and for the violence for which you are actually the greatest culprit, you are now offering yourself as a solver for the problems you yourself have caused. This can also be found in other areas. In the beginning, a tragic event was mentioned when a girl drowned in an attempt to move to Slovenia. But, ladies and gentlemen, who is the real culprit for this? Is that what the state of Slovenia is responsible for? Is this the minister's fault? Did the State of Slovenia invite them? Did the minister invite them? None of us invited them. I would remind you that for years and years I have warned how important it is to give a signal that works preventively, that there is no room here for all, that not everyone can be welcome, especially if it comes illegal. And that things have to be put in the right place here. That this is the best method, because all the other methods are worse. But you sent down the NGOs to encourage illegal migrants, come to Slovenia to give them instructions on how to get to Slovenia, and then there was a tragedy. You are really responsible for this tragedy, and no one else! Because you were giving people who were in trouble a false hope. You gave them wrong information, instructions, you made an impression on them that there was a promised land here. That this is true, this story tells the right end. After what happened and this indescribable tragedy, they then applied to Croatia without any problem for asylum. But I'm afraid not until then. That's all I want to know is who was talking to these people about encouraging them to go underground at night across the river, the icy river in Slovenia. Well, I guess that one should have come before the judge, at least that's my opinion. Do not make excuses that you have never had anything to do with this, even one of the parties involved in one of the round tables, which is now being accused of smuggling illegal migrants, for smuggling illegal migrants, for what I am reminding you of what this has become. That this is the saddest, most shameful form of business, and for all those who share in it and in whom they suffer two: those who come, and those who live here. And the only right way to solve this is not everything else, which is being debated here many times, but to help where these people came from to create conditions in which these people can live with dignity, develop economies, have security, and there will be no need to come here. Because here Europe is too small. Who can't imagine, because he might fall for it sometimes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u350	Comrade Grimes, we're in the middle of an interpolation. Please. Stick to the interpolation, see.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u351	Yeah, yeah. I'm talking about interpretation, and I'm talking about what's been said, Mr. President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u352	And you've been talking about migration for five minutes. You've been talking about this for five minutes!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u353	You all talked about it today, and by the way, the guy who talked about it also mentioned me with my name and last name, so you can go look back and bite yourself in the tongue. Next thing. We listen all the time to how wrong methods should be used, how needless force should be used, and how this leads to dictatorship. This expression was used today, and I have heard it in person more than ten times. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the law really say? The law says it is the duty of the police to dissolve an illegal meeting, an illegal protest or whatever you call it, in the event of traffic disruption or other such consequences. At the end of the day, traffic barriers are a form of violence against others. This affects those who cannot move freely, and it was a principle that was enforced by this national assembly when it adopted this legislation. And the police were responsible. Look, don't say that the police can then disband, but it's imperative, it has to. “Release it”, this legally means a nightmare. That's what they say. You're interpreting the minister because the police acted exactly in accordance with the law. That's absolutely absurd. This is legally unsustainable. This is completely wrong on the human side. But he says a lot about the system of values that you have and where it's obviously power in the first place; and that's all you're interested in. But you've wasted this power yourself. You lost that power when you threw the rifle into the corn, but today things are very different. But when you talk about how this slides into dictatorship. You know, with all due respect, but those who worship Kidric, who is a mass criminal who is guilty, is directly concealed for the hundreds of thousands of beastly men killed after World War II, they will not talk to me about dictatorship. I really don't. But when it comes to the exercise of your interests, of course, you expect that when it comes to missing arguments, and then you act as a rule as Murphy's law says: If you have no arguments and no procedure, then just yell out loud. Then you usually start raising your voice. Sometimes directly, but often through the media power you have at your disposal. This is where I come back to what I started. What exactly did you prove today? That you're afraid of the truth. That it's true, just a case. This would, in fact, be almost part of the Minister's field. A forecast of how you will persecute so-called hate speech or fake nuse, as you have written down, clearly mention only one media. That the scene was even funnier, however, was taken care of by an SD MP, who at the beginning, when he spoke, said, and apologized for a tweet that he was merely reviving the evening newspaper. Which means the evening paper was published by Fake News. But that's not on your list.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u354	Comrade Grimes, let's get back to interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u355	It's a pretty awkward thing. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u356	Come on. Come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u357	As a result, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that we are dealing with an interpolation that is completely unfounded. Interpellation based on the Minister's findings that the police acted as you write, contrary to the law. Interpellations because they respected the law, ladies and gentlemen, they did not, they cannot and must not be. And in this case, of course, this thing is completely wrong. But by doing so, you have exposed yourself and your conduct. And where you see this better than in the case that has been mentioned so many times today and is also a direct source of interpolation. The so-called NPU. You point out that the NPU should be an independent, extremely successful criminal law enforcement body in the past, and this is not the case anymore. When this occurred, this has happened several times in the last two years, I asked just one thing, please, to have someone tell me already some reverberating crime cases, a major crime that the NPU is supposed to be intended for, which they successfully solved there. To date, no one has been able to list me any of the same cases, because all those really important things, big things in the field of economic crime, other crimes, have been solved in the ordinary criminal police of the Republic of Slovenia. Nothing's wrong with the NPU. More! I personally know people who are also willing to testify if it is necessary in court that individuals with NPUs even boasted in the past in various societies in Ljubljana, that they have not completely solved anything, because this means ensuring that they have this permanent availability and excellent income and so on. Now the NPU is placed in the normal hierarchy of the Ministry, and the only thing is the same. This is the only way that opens up the possibility that this part will actually, like the rest of the criminal police, act actively, act properly and hopefully work successfully. It is said that, as a whole, the entire ministry or the criminal police will act even more effectively than before. That's what Slovenia needs. Slovenia deserves it. Slovenia deserves to live safely. Security is one and indivisible, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, interpellation is entirely not only inappropriate, but is in fact a sad proof of how, without arguments, some try to overthrow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But in doing so, ladies and gentlemen, you shot yourself in your own knee. It is probably clear to everyone that no one in a healthy mind, no one responsible for citizens and citizens, who is aware of the importance of security for the lives of people and for the development of Slovenia, cannot and must not support such interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u358	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister and representatives of the motioner of interpretation are given the floor. Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Of course, since we are concluding, thank you all for today's debate. Of course, it was hot or inappropriate for cities, but it is. Now, either the Minister of the Interior or the Ministry of the Interior is, of course, not the Ministry of Christmas or Santa Claus, as some of you wanted to expose here today. Most of all, I would say, it is a bit of an abject thing to say to people whose political partners in Europe are banishing Santa Claus or wanting to be expelled from a calendar, that is, from a dictionary; so that Christmas should not be mentioned at all. I mean, it's really unimaginable what's going on. The ministry and, of course, the police are here to ensure public order and peace and to adequately protect the lives of the people, and this, of course, has been a success for the last year and a half, according to my assessment. At the time of the epidemic, the government, as I have already said, has worked hard and done everything to make as few people sick as possible, resulting in the fact that the hospitals would be as much burdened as possible to make as few people die, but unfortunately, on the other hand, we had a destructive opposition, i.e. the main whole of the KUL opposition, which is, in fact, the agenda that victims are not important, it is important that we get back to power, in fact, it has ruined our activities and everything we wanted to do for the good of the nation. So, the KUL policy is, as I said, exclusive, it's a policy of mud, personal insults, lies. When it doesn't go here in Parliament, it's a matter of moving to the streets, it starts to break down in the streets. When it does not go there, however, there are resolutions written here at home, which then in Europe are adopted by the political family, the partners of the KUL, but also there have found that what is actually being prepared here at home and dressed in Brussels is somehow not drinking water. Now that all of this has proved to be one of your great desire to avoid the responsibility that you have so strongly contributed to what has been happening in the streets, discussions also show, in particular the debate of a German colleague who has actually brightened today with two new words. First, he set up the thesis of moral autocraticism, so we will likely hear what it is; then he spoke of peaceful rebellion. It's like saying a polite revolution or something. Of course, let me conclude that it all reminds me of these discussions, of that technical word: wood iron. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! To the conclusion. Today's debate, which is certainly a consequence again, has confirmed the facts already known and the findings of this interpolation. Regardless of today's result, the following has been proven. Minister, have you begun your term of office? Can there be silence, please? Thank you very much. The way everything comes back, it's all worth it. You are now clearly applying this and politicizing the police, in fact, to the very end of it. As I said before, trust is one of the lowest in history. So you're not doing something right. You've brought personnel clearance almost to an end and at a thousand and 350 personnel exchanges are in the police at all the leading positions of the SDS party's staff. Your communication and communication of the government is completely inappropriate, offensive and also very confusing. You're also interfering with the police in criminal proceedings. You've overstepped your powers several times. You've been clearly proven. You have adopted and defended unconstitutional and illegal decisions, many without effect, and the NPU still has a director who is there illegally. Minister, the worst of all, you have an ignorant and humiliating attitude towards everyone who disagrees with you. Maybe sometimes it would be time for you to look in the mirror. In the LMŠ, we keep telling you clearly and loudly what your fracturing and this brutal recruitment means for the Slovenian police. This will soon be no longer the Slovenian police, respected, but the police of the SDS party, similar to an element of the authoritarian state and not democracy. We will also support your resolution in the LMŠ Group. However, we are not afraid, of course, we are afraid that because of the two-faceds, some concrete voters and some who do not know where they are will remain your position and you will remain Minister. So thank you all again very much for the long debate. But in the end, of course, I'd like to thank the police, because they're putting up with your smashing and I want everything good.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u362	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Slovenia urgently needs changes when we look at Minister Hojs, we do not see his actions, but how everything should be different in our country. Instead of political police, we need professional and independent, instead of excessive force, we need the power of dialogue, instead of fighting freedom of assembly, we need to fight corruption and crime. It is time for decent, honest and democratic individuals to take over the leadership of this country; those who have some morals, some values, some faith not only of ourselves, but especially of faith in a better tomorrow and in our society. To our society as a whole, no matter the differences that divide us, but these differences are what make us rich. Dearly beloved, there is a real and well-founded hope that this will change in the coming elections. Trends show, these guidelines, the referendum has shown the leaders that they are not doing well and, of course, they are not fair, they are not right for all citizens and citizens, not only to nature and everything that surrounds us. Today is the time to talk about a new government, a new future, a new way of working and thinking. For all of us together, regardless of our differences, I sincerely hope that, with such content and with such individuals in Parliament, whether we are here or someone else, they will no longer be engaged or not anymore. I think that this is an absolute waste of time when, as a society, as a state, as a politician, as the National Assembly, we are constantly fighting destructiveness, against resentment, against everything that detracts us and does not make us human beings. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the final call to oppose such policies and policies as we have witnessed today through this 17-hour conversation that this has not been. I wish it were different. But I wish you, Minister, no matter where you are tomorrow or April 25th, there's still a lot of satisfaction and happiness in your tomorrow. Thank you very much, President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u365	Yeah. If we were able to monitor something today mainly by the Minister of the Interior and, of course, by coalitions, especially SDS parties, he was once again a driver of manipulation and lies. Also, if we borrow that wrong quote from one of the colleagues on the right, that lie is the immortal soul of communism, as Leszek Kolakowski, not Vaclav Havel, said, and then on that side Minister Hojs is the greatest communist. What Minister Hojs is doing, sowing discord, unrest and chaos, handling by force and force with decrees when he sees that he is not going to the National Assembly, all the normal countries in Europe are enacting coronal legislation – legislation! – in parliaments. The Constitutional Court told you that right, we could rule with decrees for a few months at the beginning of the epidemic, but now is not the time, we should come to Parliament with laws. By physically threatening people who express their views in protest, with tear gas, with water cannons, with excessive use of police powers, and financially threatening – today we have been able to read that the State's Attorney's Office will actually start to claim the price of police intervention from some organisers. The Ministry of the Interior is pressing the State Attorney's Office to initiate recovery procedures for police interventions, including those with tear gas and water cannons throughout the centre of Ljubljana. These are the methods taken by this government; these are the methods collected by the Minister of the Interior, but they have a different purpose. This purpose, of course, is to arrive at all times, here specifically in this case, a police apparatus, to have access and a direct impact on those investigating what? Crime and crime! As we identified and discussed earlier this week, we are currently under the influence of a criminal association. This criminal organization now has police and investigative authorities in its hands. Why is it the interest of the Slovenian Democratic Party to have control over the police and investigative authorities? To cover up corruption deals like masks, to cover up corrupt businesses like the tests, to expose corrupt businesses like the respirators and so on. To cover up the incompetences of Tonin, Rest, Snow White and Janš. That is why we have such a man as Mr Hojs as Minister of the Interior. A man who uses a cleverly every word anyone says, turns it fourteen times and throws it back in your face. To lift the smoke curtain, or the gas curtain, or the tear curtain and, of course, to enable the caravan to go in the background. This is Mr Hojs' role and, of course, he is doing it superbly. This is where you get all the credit. The reason why you are in that place is probably similar to the reason why you were the director of Nova24, you are doing nothing. But these are also all the reasons why you should not be a public official in this country, why you are completely inappropriate for any public office in this country. The man who resigns, publishes his resignation on Twitter, tells the press publicly, tells the press that the President of the Government has accepted him and then changes his mind a few days later, of course he can't have any credibility. And by your actions, by your actions, you are constantly proving this. It is clear, from a quick look at this Chamber, that there are no three members of the Slovenian National Party and that there is no Member of Simonovic. These Members, specifically Members of the Slovenian National Party, have bought or purchased their support with the millions of amendments in the budget; one Member from Izola, who has some black construction, will be legalised. At the same time, of course, we have two members of the national communities, who are also not in the hall, who also received what they wanted with the various mints. Thus, at the expense of these six Members, this country has been in this situation for more than one year, and most people in this country have been suffering from partial, unfortunately financial interests, of six people. Because the ministers of this government remain ministers with a result of 3:1 or 2:1. Finally, on Friday, 43 Members voted in favour of discharge, 28 against, and ministers remain, there is reason enough for such a government to leave and at least the Minister to resign on its own, and you boast that no, we have defended and we have support. We will, of course, support the interpolation because you really don't have anything to do in that place, Mr. Hoys.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u366	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Are the voting devices working? No, no, no. Yeah? Okay. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation lodged, extend its non-trust to the Minister of the Interior, Aleš Hojsa, and discharge him from office. His office as Minister is hereby terminated. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 37. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the Minister of the Interior has not been voted on. /(Applause) / I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 28th meeting of the assembly.
