ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 86th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that Mr Joško Godec, Member of the Assembly of State, died in 2008 - 2011 and Mrs Patricia Šulin, Member of the Assembly of State in 2011 - 2014. We'll honor their memory with a minute of silence. Praise them! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Gregor Židan, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Bojana Muršič and Masha Kociper. I invited representatives of the Government to the 1st item and representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the candidate for Constitutional Judge Dr. Rok Svetlič to the 2nd item. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 86th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 5 November 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the sitting or the withdrawal proposal. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members, for 78, against no one. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 86th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Communities and on the determination of their areas within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Dušan Šiško. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the proposaler Dusan Šišk.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I thank all those who have contributed in any way that we have come to this historic moment for my congregation, for my Krška, for my Posavij. Some of you have already heard the reasons we presented on the committee with the mayor of mags. A miran Stank, whom I also welcome. Since I have only five minutes, I will briefly introduce our congregation. Here you see some of the main reasons for our decision. Otherwise Krška is the largest municipality, with the largest population in the statistical and development region of Posavje. Krk is the geographical, transport, economic, administrative, cultural centre of Posavje. It has 26,000 inhabitants living in 158 settlements 286 kilometers. Let's see some more numbers. Economic companies based in Krka employ more than half of all employees in the region and generate more than 80% of the revenues of all companies in Posavje. Krsko has a range of development and administrative services. Let me mention only the Development Regional Agency of Posavje, Posav Chamber of Economics and the headquarters of the Fund for the Decommissioning of NEK. And a few more numbers inside Posavje. Krk is the largest municipality in the district, by population and has the most active working population. The Municipality of Krško also has the highest budget, the amount is for five years. Now you will see a comparison with the existing city halls. There are only three of them that we can really outrun by significant indicators. And some comparisons in Slovenia in general to see the potential of the municipality in a wider scale. Krka is the sixth after the income of companies, the ninth per surface, the eleventh by population and the twelve by job number. You probably don't have to repeat that Krško is also the energy center of Slovenia with three large power plants. This year, the construction of a landfill of radioactive waste is expected to begin, which we have been waiting too patiently for 40 years. Not only the preparation of NEK 2, which will be the largest investment in the history of Slovenia and will lead to the expansion of the city and region, we already have in the construction of new buildings in three business areas, such as the Krka plant, which is expanding from New City to Krk with 200 million investments and 500 jobs. As you can see, we are really full of energy, and here is evidence that at the very beginning of the independent state, we have already been granted the status of the regional centre that we want to confirm today. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope you recognize the great development potential of the Christian congregation, which we can use for the good of the whole country. I also thank those who say that this is only a symbolic issue and that there is no special benefit to this status. Okay, but that's gonna mean a lot to us, too. We believe that the local community, which takes on so many national burdens on its shoulders and so many objects that are stamped around the country as the devil of the cross, deserves recognition, even though this is symbolic. With the status of the municipality, we want to gain the status of a regional or future provincial center, which we really have a lot of arguments like hardly any other municipality, because our thoughts are further focused. We do not want to be unprepared for major challenges, as was the case 50 years ago when our fathers in Krk quickly accepted the nuclear power plant. We are already starting to prepare a space for thousands of new people, for experts, for workers, for new people who will live with us or with your children and grandchildren. They will also provide electricity for cars, all modern devices and jobs for your children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u4	Your Honor, everyone has a very nice greeting. At its 56th emergency meeting, on 27 October 2021, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas proposed by Mr Dušan Šiško to the Assembly for adoption. Members and members of the Committee were provided with the following material in accordance with the applicable rules: public support for the proposal for a law, the opinion of Brežica Municipality, the opinion of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the position of the Commission for Legal and Legislative Issues in the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Mr Igor Zorčič and the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek, were then tabled within the deadline of business. Mr Dušan Šiško, the proposaler stressed in the complementary explanation the importance of decentralisation of Slovenia, the importance of equitable regional development and the sense of forming a city municipality as the centre of any such regional development. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. In her explanation of the legal opinion, Saša Bricelj Podgornik stressed that the basic proposal itself did not fully comply with all the requirements, but that it met the requirements of the law concerning the procedure. For this reason, however, it expressly rejected the adoption of the proposed amendments because, in the view of the Legal and Legislative Service, they would be contrary to the rules in force, since they were so late in the procedure, it would not be possible to obtain all those opinions and consents provided for in the applicable law and which were obtained for the basic proposal. Mr Miran Stanko and Mr Srečko Ocvirk, Mayor of Krko Municipality, later supported the proposal in the debate. After an extensive discussion, the Committee rejected the two amendments proposed by vote and then, with 14 votes and 3 votes against, on all the articles of the basic draft law together and adopted them. Given that amendments, the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and the Local Government have not been adopted to the National Assembly, it therefore proposes that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas under the shorter procedure be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u6	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In New Slovenia we support the development of local self-government and efforts for coherent regional development of all regions of Slovenia. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we advocate the right of local communities to regulate, manage and exercise in their own right all public matters from the life and work of the inhabitants of their territory and not to interfere with the rights and obligations of other local communities. The management system must be as close to people as possible and must enable successful planning and coordination of different interests. We advocate the independence of the municipalities, including financial autonomy, which protects local self-government from unjustified interventions by the state. If a State delegates tasks under its jurisdiction to the municipalities, it must also be provided with the necessary financial resources. Minor, demographically threatened and border municipalities should be provided with financial compensation for their specific tasks. Objective and transparent criteria for the allocation of funds to municipalities should be established. The aim of the country must be to provide citizens in all parts of Slovenia with adequate transport, energy and communication infrastructure and to provide other key foundations for life and work, basic education, emergency health care and care for the elderly. In the light of all of this, there is also a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their areas, which our fellow Member Dušan Šiško of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party has submitted to the State Parliamentary Procedure on a long-term proposal from the Municipality of Krško. The proposed law grants the status of the municipality of Krko Municipality. The initiative is supported by the entire municipal council of Krko Municipality and local committees of all ten political parties represented. There is therefore a single support for the bill in the local community. In the past, the Municipality of Krško has already sought to gain the status of the city municipality, but it has not been successful in its efforts, although it fulfils the same conditions as some other municipalities or is greater both by number of people and by area and also by the income of companies from certain municipalities. The Municipality of Krško, following the assurances of the proposer and the mayor of the municipality on the committee, is currently conducting a process of merging settlements into a strong town of Krško, which is already functioning as a city and is accepted as such by its citizens. A key argument for supporting the law is also the implementation of decentralisation, which is one of the fundamental principles of local self-government. Posavina municipalities, all six participating in the statistical or development region today, have an interest in the independent province of Posavje, where Krško as a city municipality would act as a regional centre. This is also important in terms of strengthening the capital of neighbouring Croatia, as this part of Slovenia along the border with neighbouring Croatia does not have a city municipality. The city municipality of Krško would represent a counterweight to the city of Zagreb by granting the status of the municipality. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a law that will grant the status of the municipality of Krko Municipality.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. What a lovely greeting, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law establishing municipalities and setting up their areas to grant the status of the municipality to the Municipality of Krško. The Law on Local Self-Government lays down the conditions to be met by the municipality to grant its status as a city municipality, such as a certain number of inhabitants in the city and a certain number of jobs, and the condition that the municipality is an economic, cultural, administrative centre of the wider area. The Municipality of Krško, which is one of the largest municipalities in Slovenia, has a close connection with numerous settlements that are gravitating to them. Thus the Municipality of Krško has already begun procedures leading to the goal of bringing the settlements themselves together into the city, which will also strengthen its role as the leading administrative community centre by developing economic and social activities. In addition, Krška, with its surroundings, provides a strong trend towards new investors, which will help create new jobs in all sectors. It seems important to us that the Municipality of Krško meets similar conditions as some other municipalities that already have city status. At the Modern Centre Party, we listened to the arguments of the proposer, mayor and other stakeholders who convinced us that the time for obtaining the name of the municipality is appropriate. It is particularly appropriate at the time of the drafting of the new provincial legislation or in the desire to implement one of the fundamental principles of local self-government, decentralisation and the attempt to establish the provinces as a vehicle for more coherent regional development, under which the municipalities are envisaged as regional centres. According to the Mayor of Krske, gaining status would lead mainly to faster development of the city and, consequently, to rural development, new powers, additional means of operation and programmes, new jobs and better conditions of cooperation with the state and other municipalities, as well as with cities from other European countries. As a city congregation, it would be easier to obtain a variety of funds, since many of the invitations are largely tailored to larger congregations. The fact is that the Krka Municipality initiative is for the realization of the interest of the wider regional interest and, above all, for the realization of the wishes of citizens and the municipal council, with the support of local committees, even ten political parties. If there is a possibility that a political decision is to meet the needs and wishes of the population, there is no reason for us not to support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party. Accordingly, the SMC Group will support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! Local self-government is of great importance to citizens because they can exercise their interests more directly. In addition, in relation to the country, local self-government allows them a certain degree of independence. The decision at the level of the congregation is closer to people than decision-making at national level, since it is matters that are more directly concerned and are therefore better known. That is why it is all the more important that we have a strong local self-government in the service of citizens in Slovenia. We have 11 municipalities in Slovenia today. With the proposed change, we would receive the 12th city congregation, the city congregation of Krško. In the SAB as advocates of regional development we support the development growth of Slovenian cities, even in the case of the town of Krško there is a visible potential. For a long time, the people there wanted their congregation to become a local congregation. In Krška, they are also working in the interest of the independent region of Posavje to create a strong center of Posavje. The fact is that it is a congregation that is developing intensively and growing, so we have estimated that it will also justify its status. We also recognized similar potential in SAB in the municipality of Jesenice. Thus, as part of the legislative procedure on behalf of the autumn congregation, we added a supplement to the status of the municipal congregation in Jesenice. We are convinced that the Jesenice deserve this status because they are the geographical, economic and cultural centre of Upper Gorenjska. According to the autumn mayor, the municipality of Jesenice has been the municipality of Jesenice by content and activity for decades. The importance, influence and reputation of the autumn congregation have long gone beyond local frameworks, since municipal activities have been developed to the extent that they cover not only the needs of the Jesenics and the surrounding areas, but the whole of Gorenjska. It's a city with a highly developed industry. Autumns also represent an important hub with developed roads and railway connections, and they also deal with important activities in the field of culture and sport. In addition, it should be pointed out that virtually all Slovenian regions have two municipalities, and in Gorenjska it is only the Municipality of Kranj. Unfortunately, our efforts did not bear fruit because the proposal did not receive adequate support on the parental committee. In the SAB, we are aware that the quality of life of citizens and citizens is crucial to the quality and efficiency of local self-government. We are also committed to reducing the number of municipalities in order to increase their responsibilities and responsibilities. Therefore, we also strongly oppose attempts to break up existing urban communities. The local self-government must primarily provide a good service for people and in the SAB we do not agree to the fragmentation of municipalities with a view to pursuing the interests of individual local politicians, as is seen in the case of the Golnik municipality initiative. The proposal for a law under which the Municipality of Krško will acquire the status of the city municipality will be supported by the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The constitutional design of the municipality is based on the assumption that there are two types of municipalities, ordinary and urban in Slovenia, and that they should have more competence, but the constitutional standard due to the lack of conceptual design has never been carried out. The City Assembly may, as its own by law, carry out certain tasks under State jurisdiction relating to the development of cities. This means that only those tasks relating to the city as a larger urban settlement can be delegated to the city by law. Although local affairs, for example, are quite different from the local affairs of the smaller rural community by their content, quantity, diversity and intensity, they are therefore matters of common public interest for life and for the work of the local community. The legislative experiments to date, which defined the additional tasks or competences of the city’s municipalities, have failed mainly for two reasons. The transfer of competences to the municipal municipality concerns those national tasks relating to the development of cities and not any other State tasks. In an attempt to extend the jurisdiction of the municipal municipalities, it was not possible to determine the state tasks and the extent to which they were, by their nature, such that they could be transferred as original only to the municipal municipalities and in doing so, to make a clear distinction between those tasks to be carried out by the State authorities. Article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government provides that the law may grant the status of the municipal municipality if there is a city in its territory with at least 20,000 inhabitants and 15,000 jobs and an economic, cultural and administrative centre of the wider area. The status of the city municipality is currently governed by the law of 11 municipalities. Four of them, Slovenj Gradec, Murska Sobota, Nova Gorica and Ptuj, do not meet the legal conditions for the municipality. In September, a proposal for a new Law on the Establishment of Municipalities was tabled in the legislative procedure and their areas were established, which would also give the municipality the status of the Municipality of Krško. It is the initiative of the Municipality of Krško, its municipal council as the highest representative body in the local self-government to realize the wishes of citizens and citizens. The proposers justify the initiative by referring to the designation of the municipal municipalities, which was carried out in 1994. The municipality of Krško fulfils similar conditions as certain other municipalities which already have the status of municipality, but also claim that there is a process of merger of settlements in the municipality, the result of which will be an increase in the number of people in the town of Krško. On the basis of data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, Krško has a town of just over 7 000 200 inhabitants and a municipality of about 10 000 200 jobs. Both essential conditions have thus not been met. Repeat, 20,000 inhabitants and 15,000 jobs. Therefore, it can be found that the municipality of Krško does not meet the legal conditions for granting the status of the city congregation. The whole process shows, as the most important argument in favour of the proposal, reasoning with the decision-making errors that were made 27 years ago. None of these arguments can change what is only important, increase the number of people or increase the number of jobs. Bidding on whether or not to comply with the applicable legal provisions is totally inappropriate in a particular case where such large derogations are concerned. Members of the Desus Group have a wide variety of attitudes and views to such bidding. Exactly according to the diversity of our views, we will also vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u14	Nice greeting here in the hall! Let me immediately say that in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties we support the proposal of Mr Dusan Šiška to grant the status of the municipality to the municipality of Krško. In principle, we do not favour the fragmentation of Slovenia into various smaller units, which is also considered to be an excessive number of municipalities as a possible formation of landscapes, since we have been working for years to take historical facts into account. However, we believe that in some very obvious cases it is necessary to take into account that a lot has changed in Slovenia in 30 years. As is clear, there have been many derogations in the case of congregational designations as well as in the city’s congregations, as we have seen a little earlier. In this respect, we agree with the Council of State, which found in its position that the south-eastern part of Slovenia has become some kind of soft belly of our country and as such particularly vulnerable to Croatia and the Balkans. I'm sure you can still remember the long columns of refugees that have just penetrated Slovenia through Posavia. And this penetration and harassment of the inhabitants continues today. As already found in the State Council, this part of the country along the border with Croatia from the White Landscape to Ptuj does not have a real regional centre and no city municipality. We also agree with thinking that the outflow of the human and other potential of Posavia against the more powerful city of Zagreb must be stopped. If there is anything we can do to help by granting the status of the city congregation, that is the least we can do. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that all the rest of the Municipality of Krška will do so by itself with its huge development and economic capacities. For this reason, I am also pleased that Dusan's mother's working body has confirmed the proposal with a large majority. And there's something else I'd like to say. In the party's parliamentary group, as well as personally as Dusan's colleague, I greatly appreciate his work in the National Assembly, especially his perseverance and pride, with which he always says he comes from Krskov and Posavje. It is one of those rare policies that Ljubljana and the parliamentary seat have not yet mixed, as it remains firm on its soil and among the people who have chosen it along with their problems. I'm afraid that those who live mostly in Ljubljana and somehow out of your mind are looking at us who come from villages and smaller places, you can't quite understand. But I think today is the time to support a proposal that really deserves it. However, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on behalf of the Municipality of Krško, I wish all good. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Good bye to all of you! As well as greeting the mayor, I hope that the municipalities of Krško, on the tribune. In Slovenia, there are 11 municipalities established by the Law establishing the municipalities and establishing their areas in 1994. The municipalities of Murska Sobota, Nova Gorica, Ptuj and Slovenj Gradec at the time of granting the status of the municipal municipality in 1994, when they received the status under the law establishing the municipalities, did not fulfil the legal conditions. This is why it is a very important day for Posavije today, because in the last year, Krška has worked hard with the mayor, the municipal administration and also with his colleague Dusan Šiško and has done a great deal of work towards meeting the requirements of marriage. We believe that today's adoption of the law will be both a reward for the work done and an incentive for the advance development of Krskov and the entire Posavje. Apparently, he thinks he likes to go to third. Krško is the ninth municipality in Slovenia. At 9th place, after proper consumption, 11th place by population, 12th place by number of jobs, the energy centre of Slovenia and many other state and regional institutions is very recognizable in Slovenian scale. It is also the geographical center of Posavje. Today's adoption of the law will also be an important step towards the future establishment of the Posavia Region, which is not just a policy and an economy, especially people we have been waiting for and expecting for a long time. Therefore, I am extremely pleased to have the honour to say, as the only SDS member from Posavje, that we will unitedly support the proposal of the law in the SDS and thus contribute to the establishment of the Krka municipality. When I submitted a written question to the Minister of Public Administration on 22 August 2019 concerning the status of the municipalities or a municipality meeting the conditions for the status of the city municipality, I did not expect that we would have the honour and opportunity to adopt a law giving Krškem city rights for a good two years thereafter. From this point of view, Kršek is all good for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! In view of the decision on the working body on the proposal for the Municipality of Krško to grant the status of the municipal municipality, it appears that this status will also be granted with the majority support of MEPs and members of the Social Democrats. According to the applicant, the granting of the status is justified by a number of arguments, among which the principles of local self-government, which seek to decentralise and strengthen the regions, are being implemented. By gaining the status of the city municipality, the power of Krske will be strengthened as the center of the region of Posavje, which brings together five more municipalities besides Krske. As a result, this will contribute to faster development of the whole area. Both the proposer of the law and the mayor of the municipality of Krško ensure that the municipality develops throughout the process mainly in the field of energy. And this development in energy, which will also affect the development of other activities, is a marriage to increase the number of jobs in Krk as well as in other municipalities in the region of Posavje. Finally, it can also have a positive impact on the increase in the number of inhabitants in the region. The Municipality of Krško already represents the economic, administrative, transport and cultural centre of Posavje, so the granting of the status of the city municipality should not be such a problem. Of course, we cannot go beyond the serious warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points to the legal obstacles and conditions when the status of the city municipality can be granted. The State Council, which supports the proposal for the award of municipal status, points to the very beginning of the award of municipal status. It was pointed out that some municipalities did not meet the legal conditions at the time of their status and that since the establishment of local self-government we have been faced with an unconstant and non-systemic approach to regulating the territorial component of local self-government and that the establishment of municipalities and the granting of the status of municipal municipalities take more into account the argument of power as an argument for the fulfilment of legal conditions. All these warnings are, of course, in place and we will have to begin to respond to them in a systematic way to regulate local self-government in the development of larger and stronger municipalities, which will be able to carry out, with knowledge and stronger financial potential, the tasks entrusted to them by legislation and the wishes of citizens and citizens for better living outside the city centres. Fragmentation of funds means, above all, less investment in increasingly demanding infrastructure and other projects, which require mainly European funding in addition to municipal and state resources. But we're still out of landscapes. By the way, there are also these constitutional categories that would carry out local affairs of wider regional importance, but also here they end up with numbers.Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Good-bye! The proposal to establish a new city congregation, Krško, surprised us quite a bit. Even more so, because in the accompanying material and further arguments for the new city congregation spoken on the committee, we found no reason why the congregation of Krško should be transformed into a city congregation. Thus, it is not particularly clear what will be gained by the congregation’s citizens, in which their quality of life will change. The second and very important reason why we oppose the establishment of the new town municipality of Krško is that the city of Krško does not meet the legal conditions laid down in article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government, because it does not reach the minimum number of people who are 20 000 and does not reach the number of jobs 15 thousand. Currently, the city of Krško is far from the mentioned legal conditions. It has only 7,000 people, a total of just over 26 000 people, and also a much smaller number of jobs than those prescribed. Even if the announcement by Mayor Miran Stank is made to obtain an additional 3,000 inhabitants by the end of the year, this will still be only half of the required number. Similar suggestions have already been made in the past, and the National Assembly has consistently rejected them because the legal conditions have not been met. At this point, any debate on such proposals by new municipalities should end. Nevertheless, we can take advantage of this opportunity and draw attention to the subordination of city halls. The status of the city’s congregation is not granted because of its regional prestige, but it is a matter of municipalities with urban settlements that need different arrangements and powers from other congregations because of their urban characteristics. More precisely, it would be important to lay down in law the tasks of State jurisdiction relating to the development of cities and to transfer them to the city councils. This is also the case in Article 141 of the Constitution. Municipal municipalities face specific problems such as urban transport, poor air quality, high energy consumption, increased space interventions and so on, due to major urban settlements that do not have other municipalities. The administrative, cost, investment and development burden of urban municipalities is increasing to address these problems. It therefore calls for amendments to the legislation relating to the tasks and competences of the municipal municipalities. This would, in combination with the adoption of provincial legislation, finally regulate local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia. When legislative solutions are adopted, it will also be easier to check whether the quantitative conditions for the establishment of the city municipality still correspond to the development of settlements and municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia or not. This is not what we have now, and the granting of status to the new municipalities alone will not bring about a qualitative change. The handcrafts in this place are not appropriate and we therefore oppose this proposal in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since, in the second reading, the mother labour force has not adopted any amendments to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the draft law, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 65 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a defensive proposal for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 15 October 2021, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Rok Svetlič be elected judge of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly! At the time of notification of the expiry of the term of office, the President of the Republic informed the Constitutional Judge, Dr Dunji Jadek Pensa, last year, in accordance with his constitutional function, of the conduct of three procedures for proposing candidates or candidates for a judge of the Constitutional Court. He held numerous discussions and consultations each time. Candidates, legal professionals, have chosen both from the applicants to the public invitation and from their own discretion, as the law allows them, in the latter case without the pre-assistance of majority support. The current proposals by the President of the Republic for this town - Dr. Andraz Teršek, Dr. Ange Erbežnik, Dr. Janez Kranjc - have been varied. The National Assembly thus had a choice between candidates for different worldview views and different professional profiles. None of the proposed candidates received sufficient support for the election. On this occasion, the President of the Republic received five proposals for possible candidates, Dr. Franci Ježek, Marjan Lekše, mag. Marko Starman, Dr. Rok Svetlič, Dr. Andraz Teršek. Following consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups and after assessment, the President of the Republic decided to propose an order to the National Assembly for a Judge of the Constitutional Court. Prof. Dr. Roko Svetlič. Dr. Rok Svetlič is a legal expert, researcher and university teacher who works at the Koper Scientific Research Centre as chairman of the Legal Institute. Before that, he was a researcher at the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Ljubljana and a lecturer at the Faculty of Humanities Studies of the University of Primorska. Among other things, he was a visiting professor at the European Law School. He is President of the Slovenian Philosophy Society and Vice-President of the Academy of Democracy, Society for the Promotion of Democratic Culture. The central area of his research and action is the philosophy of right and human rights. He devotes his work to researching phenomena that lie at the intersection of law and philosophy, resulting from his education, as he also completed his studies of philosophy in addition to his studies of law. In its work and in its publications, it primarily analyses the issue of human rights, democratic culture, totalitarianism, freedom. His entire professional work, including pedagogical activity, is deeply committed to a democratic culture that is based on respect for human rights, tolerance and dialogue. Its bibliography includes over 200 entries, of which 55 scientific articles and chapters and 8 monographs. So in 2009, his monograph of the Philosophy of Human Rights was published. The following year he published the university textbook Chosen Chapters of Political Morality. In 2015, he published a monograph in the Slovenian Matrimonial to translate the essence of the world – ontology of the law and the country, which was recently translated into German and Croatian. He also published close to 130 columns in the daily newspaper. Among other things, at the outbreak of the pandemic, he drew attention to the importance of the principle of solidarity, including the care of human health, and called for confidence in the rule of law and democratic institutions. At the same time, he called on all institutions to ensure that their fundamental objective is to restore citizens' confidence in the Slovenian legal order. As he highlighted in particular the public presentation at the Presidential Palace, it is right that everyone, in particular the ordinary individual, will be able to believe, without social, political and economic power, that he has a reliable ally in the Slovenian legal order, that this is what he would like to contribute to in case of election as a constitutional judge. The candidate presented himself to the public in more detail with his views and vision at the public presentation of his candidacy, as well as in subsequent records and published opinions. Both at the presentation and in the letter to the President of the Republic and in his discussion with him, he clarified and reasoned on his response to certain public statements and strongly rejected them. The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly that Dr. Roko Svetlič appoint a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u24	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! We have repeatedly stressed in the SAB Group that we are living in a time that threatens the fundamental human rights for which we have fought for decades. It is also a time when people's trust in the rule of law is strongly conceived. It is therefore more important today than ever before that these rights are protected by an effective, independent and strong constitutional judiciary. Such a judiciary, according to the SAB, is provided by constitutional judges who, in addition to the highest level of professional and personal integrity, also have an outstanding sense of human rights. We have also pointed out in the SAB several times that we expect the most eminent lawyers in the Constitutional Court, with rich life experiences and, above all, career experiences. And that's where it starts with the proposed candidate. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Judges shall be elected by legal experts. We believe that Dr. Light of this most basic criterion does not meet. The candidate is an outstanding professor of philosophy of law at the European Faculty of Law of the New University and its experience in the research and scientific field. However, we estimate that, unfortunately, there is not enough for a constitutional judge. As a result, we do not share the opinion of the President of the Republic, who believes that if elected, the candidate will perform his or her work professionally. We are convinced that he lacks too much legal practice and contact with it. The candidate himself stressed in several interviews that he deals with law and human rights in the way university teachers and researchers deal with law. In the SAB Group, this is not an important way to give up, only it is not sufficient for a constitutional judge to believe in us. In general, Dr. Svetljič has been following a great deal of media attention since the application was made, with the majority being negative. The public was alarmed by his alleged statement about the shooting of migrants. However, the perception of the candidate's suitability for a constitutional judge has not been helped by the disclosure of participation in the music group, according to many controversial texts. We must also rediscover that even the age of the candidate is not in favour of our repeatedly expressed advocacy for the most balanced age composition of constitutional judges, in which young judges are now apparently the dominant. These judges are halfway their careers, paths and far from their conclusion, so their continued career ambitions raise the issue of complete impartiality, which is the essence of the personal integrity of the highest representative of the judiciary. We have repeatedly called on the President of the Republic to propose a female candidate who will have experience from the judiciary and will specialize in economic law. According to our assessment, such a legal expert with acquired knowledge and experience would contribute invaluablely to the quality of the constitutional assessment of the regulation of the economic and wider economic system in the Republic of Slovenia. I can conclude that in the SAB Group, we did not recognize the quality we expect from the Constitutional Judge, so we do not support the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The President's new candidate for a constitutional judge is, in particular, a surprise to us after the three fiascos we have witnessed. I'm afraid it's negative. That a candidate has a degree in philosophy besides a law degree, otherwise it may be an advantage. That he had never dealt with the law in depth, however, it could only be a flaw — a flaw that cannot be overlooked and even less forgiven by the candidate for the post of Constitutional Judge. But not to a candidate who uncritically applies for various invitations, but to his candidate, the President of the Republic. He argues that the President carried out his mission, made a sincere effort, consulted too strongly as an ambitious politician, held a dialogue and chose, as he himself said, to avoid his constitutional duty, namely to find a candidate as soon as possible. That is true, but his duty is not merely to propose to anyone who has sufficient votes in Parliament. It is his duty to propose a legal expert, as laid down in Article 163 of the Constitution. It is his duty to strengthen, not to degrade, and not just the Constitutional Court, but the legal profession as such. It is also the duty of the President of the Republic to maintain or raise standards, not to lower them. Sometimes, if not always, a broader message is important, not just a narrow run to the bare fulfillment of duty. It also points out to the President recently that such a reputable candidate for a constitutional judge will not be elected without sufficient support in Parliament. Here. But it also applies the other way around. A sufficient number of votes do not justify proposing to anyone. If ever, it is worth asking today what the Constitutional Court and, in particular, the State and society need in view of the rule of law and the deliberate destruction of democracy. Do we know what the candidate thinks about ruling? No, no, no. And he even wrote articles about it. Do we know what he thinks about some of the current issues related to the rule of law? No, no, no. Its contents are completely unknown. Although he says a lot of excuses and writes down, but every position softens, he adds but. These continue the thesis. In the LMŠ, we oppose the proposal of the President of the Republic to degrade the legal profession and thus the rule of law, since the candidate for a constitutional judge in our opinion does not have sufficient legal knowledge, skills, to be able to be a sovereign judge in the Constitutional Court. Responsibility is simply too much to overlook. It is one of the most important institutions in the country, and it follows only the criterion of whether the candidate has sufficient votes in Parliament, but not whether he is qualified to serve in the Constitutional Court, is irresponsible. We hope, in the interests of the country, knowledge and skills, that the President of the Republic will have to make another effort after today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! To migration and refugees at all, Dr. Rok Lightwield has a kind, unusual relationship. In an interview with the officer, he explained, for example, that it is necessary to be very restrictive in granting international protection, since every time someone receives the right to asylum, it is unfair to all those who do not receive asylum and might deserve it the same or even more than those who have received it. Therefore, his shocking statement, I quote - "the country must, if it does not wish to remain postmodernally soft, to protect its symbolic role as a master, in the extreme case of shooting migrants at the illegal crossing of the state border," the end of the line is not surprising. Pahor's chosen and right-wing candidate categorically denies proposing such a brutal solution, even if Minister Hojs added a point to the story. If a statement by a candidate for a constitutional judge even Hojs seemed so cross-border that he tried to reconcile matters with the words, "but, well, we will not shoot people," then it is clear that by the time the National Assembly decides whether to become a Rok Svetič Constitutional Judge, it should not have come at all. Borut Pahor, without question, pushes the right path into the full takeover of all key institutions in the country. After the Constitutional Judge has become a faithful supporter of the SDS, after the next candidate to the Constitutional Court has moved straight from the SDS protests before the court, we are today deciding whether the candidate for a constitutional judge should become someone who has never had contact with legal practice and for whom Matevž Krivic says that the candidate does not even meet the fundamental constitutional requirement for a constitutional judge, as he must be a legal expert. The non-conformity of this candidacy with the constitution of President Borut Pahor is not interested, nor is it of any concern, which considers that shooting refugees can be a completely legitimate measure of the State, which considers that homosexuality is a disease which considers that it has not been deleted on schedule and that the state cannot be blamed for its disappearance, although not only a court in which I would like to serve for the next nine years, but even the European Court of Human Rights has clearly decided that it has been planned and that it is the State responsible for it and, last but not least, the opposition to the inadmissible deportation of the Syrian refugee, who has fully integrated into our society and has created a new life, has marked us as religious ference. And I could count it. I could also add the text of some song by the frog band in which he participated, perhaps the one in the song entitled “I am a really nice chauvinist” in which they say they will get rid of their eyes. It is totally incomprehensible that, in all of the above, we will actually vote on whether such a person should become a constitutional judge. It is an eternal candidate who has already run for office, but no one has taken it seriously because he has no professional competence. No one took it seriously except apparently Borut Pahor, who succumbed to the right and wants to help her kidnap all the highest institutions in the country. Today, the question is, who will help the SDS? We don't support the candidate in the Left. Today's vote will indicate whether there is any feeling in this National Assembly for at least minimum standards that will affect people's lives for the next nine years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the proposal. Would you like to speak with the representative of the proposer? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a vote on the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have forwarded me proposals for the members of the committee which leads the vote. These are Franc Breznik, SDS, Andreja Zabret, LMŠ, Boštjan Koražija, Levica, and Blaž Pavlin Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Ursula Zore Tavčar, Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 2. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. Members and Members of the European Parliament are requested to keep the distance recommended when waiting for the voice to be delivered in accordance with the preventive measures. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word in favour or the word against. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the proposed candidate for the Constitutional Court will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who are not involved in the vote shall not be allowed to vote during secret ballots in the Chamber. That is why I call upon these persons to leave the Chamber at the time of the vote. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 14.15 p.m. and will last until 2.30 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item and the 86th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.06 p.m. and resumed at 2.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. We continue with the adjournment of the sitting and the adjournment of the second point, this is the consideration of the Proposal for the election of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me read the minutes on the outcome of the vote: The vote was held at the House of the National Assembly on 10 November 2021. 46 ballots were distributed, 46 votes were cast, 46 votes were valid, no votes were valid. 46 members voted in favour, no one voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr. Rok Svetlič was elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. I ask the elected judge, Dr. Rok Svetlič, to join us. I ask the elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Rok Svetlič, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u31	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and by my every effort to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u32	Dr. Lightwich, would you like to talk to the National Assembly? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u33	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'd like to thank you very much for your support. I also thank the proposaler, the distinguished President of the Republic, for the trust he has shown me in these difficult times. I'd like to say this. You've given me some great professional recognition and given me even more personal responsibility. I want you to know that I'm aware of that. You've given me the opportunity to continue what I believe and what I've been working with in all my professional life to continue this at a higher level, at a level that imposes on me some priceless professional and personal fulfillment. Our law is based on the value of human rights. In my firm belief, the key word for human rights is that word, which we rarely think of, is the first word of the first article of the first declaration after World War II. This word is “all”. All people are born free, equal rights and so on. If we don't take this word seriously, it doesn't make sense for us to read on. So, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to conclude this address, a thank you for repeating those words that you can take as my personal, private oath. I will do everything I can to make every man, especially the one from the edge of society, without capital power, without economic power and so on, believe that he has a reliable ally in the law of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-10-SDZ8-Izredna-86.ana.u34	Dr. Roku Svetlich, thank you for your words, congratulations, and I wish him a successful job. I'm closing this agenda item. I also conclude the 86th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I'm informing you that in 15 minutes, this will begin at 3 p.m. and 5 minutes after the 85th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
