ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 81st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the second paragraphs of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franc Jurša, Branislav Rajić, Igor Zorčič, Brane Golubović, mag. Dušan Verbich, Luka Moon, mag. Alenka Bratušek and Primož Siter until 4 p.m. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 81st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 September 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Vice-President of the National Assembly, Branko Simonovic, proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 81st Extraordinary Meeting be extended by a Decision declaring the decision adopted at the vote of the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, which was implemented on 11 July 2021. You received a proposal for enlargement and a decision today, 14 September 2021. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I see you don't. I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on that proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. We are moving to a full vote on the draft agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and by an extension adopted. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 81st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to A1. Agenda item - Discussion of the decision resolution decision to be taken at the legislative referendum on changes to the water law, which was implemented 11. Julia. On 7 September 2012, a report of the State Election Commission was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on the final outcome of the vote at the referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, which was implemented on 11 July 2021. It follows from the letter of the Supreme Court of 14 September 2021 that no complaint was lodged against the State Election Commission’s report within the legal time limit. The report, as published in Official Journal 143/2021 of 7 September 2021, is so legally binding. Given that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 53b of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative within eight days of the legality of the State Election Commission report, has to announce the decision taken at the referendum, you have today received a decision on 14 September 2021 to announce the decision taken at the referendum. On the basis of Article 53b of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly agrees that a vote in the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, which was carried out on 11 July 2021 on the basis of a decision on the invitation to vote in the Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act of 25 May 2021, adopted a decision by the electorate and electorate, as found in the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the referendum on the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 7 September 2021, was against the majority of the voters who were also five voters who had the right to vote. In accordance with Article 90(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, this means that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its 67th extraordinary meeting on 30 March 2021, was rejected at the referendum. The decision taken at the vote in the legislative referendum on the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements has thus been announced. I also conclude item 1a of the agenda. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LEGISLATION FOR NETHERLANDS. The draft law was tabled by the 44th Members and Members, with the first-signed Dr. Mate Tashner Vatovec. At its 25th session, on 7 September, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the mother. Since, after the discussion, the committee of articles of the draft law did not adopt the second consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the working body was completed. I now give the text to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views and, as the first to receive the word, Mr Dušan Šiško. It will present the position of the SNS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, my fellow Members. Look, first thing you have to do here is ask yourself what we can talk about today. The title of the point is very, very widespread and good that it all fell on the committee. Let's get to the point. On average, 10% of foreign students are enrolled at our university because more than half came from countries of the former Yugoslavia. We are not surprised by this in the Slovenian National Party, for workers from the former Yugoslavia are also coming to us as an uneducated labour force. This is where they register the company and work. Of course, Slovenian companies are failing because these foreigners are going very cheaply to public tenders and then, of course, they get a job. It is nice to hear that students come to us to study because they like the beauty of Slovenia, the language, our culture, customs, customs or here have distant roots. However, it is very difficult to get used to our culture, let alone speak the Slovenian word. Looking ahead, it means one job less for our citizen or citizen if they stay with us after school, while our student loses his place in college. But it can only be a bouncing board to continue the journey to the European Union. Foreign students from countries outside the European Union were not enrolled in the Ljubljana and Maribor Medical Faculty this year due to staffing and spatial constraints. With the help of NGOs, foreign enrollment students were able to make a complaint. The Youth Plus Union has even witnessed discrimination against foreign students on the basis of nationality to colleges. If young people choose to come to study, they must be aware that this is not free. The required monthly amount of €402.18 is not in the sky absorbing. The guarantee for this amount must be given by the parents, not one, both. In addition, they also have the opportunity to receive money from Erasmus plus. Students, either our own or the other, have previously shared on the basis of their economic and social status. In the past, there was a lot of dust when Italian students of physiotherapy graduated from the Slovenian Faculty. It became entangled in the recognition of professional qualifications, as an appeal against Slovenia was also lodged against the European Commission, but ultimately the passions settled in favour of the students. In the Slovenian National Party, we will always and everywhere defend the view that we must first take care of the Slovenian nation and then for others or foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u4	Your Honor! In view of the current arrangements, which are appropriate and would be a good change to the law, which was proposed only to avoid checking the eligibility of those who make a statement or confirm that they can finance foreign studies outside the EU in Slovenia. That was the whole difference. All the rest are extravagant words, and in fact they also mean misleading the public. In SDS we are convinced that things need to be checked whenever it comes to the interests of Slovenia, when it comes to finance, when it comes to what we pay Slovenian taxpayers. In this way, no one who acts honestly can be deprived, and because of this bill, we have not supported it when it was tabled. The current arrangement, as far as this is concerned, is quite appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following position will be presented by Mr Aljaž Kovacič on behalf of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law repeals the new regulation on the exercise of sufficient means of subsistence for foreign students, which entered into force with the amendment of the law on foreigners, adopted this spring, which we opposed in the List of Marjan Šarca. The latter has considerably exacerbated the living conditions for foreign students who want to study at one of Slovenia's higher education institutions. Any further unjustified aggravation of the conditions which make it difficult for young people to access education and which are an obstacle to the successful internationalisation of higher education is contrary to several laws and State documents adopted in the field of education. One of the key documents to be taken into account is the strategy of internalising Slovenian higher education. Notwithstanding the fact that it bears the date 2016-2020. Experience has shown that students at the Slovenian higher education institute also increase the diversity and quality of the implementation of study programmes. The Ministry of the Interior has not yet shown that foreign students are from the point of view of social transfers to the State, which would make the requirement for sufficient resources for the duration of the study justified. [[Incomprehensible]] In implementing the amendment, the Ministry of the Interior refers to a directive which has thus been transposed by the amendment of the Foreigners Act into national legislation, but this is fully transposed from the national requirements of such an exercise of sufficient resources but from the issue of providing sufficient means of subsistence during the study to the Member States. They may also decide, in accordance with the Directive referred to in Article 11, that temporary residence permits for the purposes of the study are not required to show sufficient means of residence. The government novel of the Law on Foreigners imposes high demands on students from third countries and thus prevents the continuation of studies to many who are already studying in Slovenia and prevents new students from entering Slovenian universities. It is not only the difference between students from the European Union and those from third countries, but also between the socially weak and the wealthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u8	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Foreigners, which amends the conditions for the exercise of sufficient resources for students, third-country nationals, today unfortunately ends the legislative path without a vote. And what brings the novels of the Foreigners Act? Students from third countries would be allowed to continue their studies or new students to start a higher education course and students who have successfully completed studies in Slovenia would be allowed to request an extension of their residence permit. All these groups of students could do so on the basis of a written statement from their parents, relatives, spouses or extra-marital partners or other persons who guarantee the student’s survival. It is worth noting that it is mainly students from countries of the former Yugoslavia where the social situation of families is weaker. The proposed novel would also improve the mobility of foreign students studying in other Member States of the European Union and would like to conduct part of the study through student mobility mechanisms in Slovenia. Not the Government, not the MPs and members of the government coalition, but finally the members of the State Council's Committees for State Regulation did not recognize the positive aspects of internationalisation of higher education. The position of the Rector's Conference of Slovenia, which supports the proposal for a new law on foreigners, has been overtaken. Students' organisations in Slovenia also came forward, and they also support the law. They warned that foreign students are living like many Slovenian students, with student work and that student work income is not considered as a source of livelihood. Your Honor! For some time, we have been monitoring data on labour shortages, not only of unskilled workers or workers for less than or middle-aged labour, but also of other highly educated staff. Given that we are also considering today's proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021 to 2031, we therefore rightly ask how and with what resources we will fill all new and renewed health facilities for which we will spend a billion or two. For example, the health system has already been humanely fed. Not only do we lack a medium medical staff, but we face a lack of highly educated medical staff, among which doctors are still considered highly educated from other areas without which even the development of the medical profession makes it impossible for doctors to work or work harder. The duration of education is not taken into account, nor is it limited in Slovenia to the number of candidates for education, for example, in medicine. However, we are already investing in a ten-year health education, not trying to keep it in the public health system. However, given that we are an ageing society, it should be a common goal for young people to come to Slovenia, learn Slovenian during the course of their studies, and become more involved in society and, of course, get to know our culture. We've already missed one year of study. How many more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Good-bye! The aim of the amendment of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, which was introduced into the parliamentary procedure by the Levica Group with the co-signed LMŠ, SD, SAB, Unrelated and Members of the Minor Nationalities, Felice Žiža, is to eliminate the harmful changes of ZTUJ2F for students of third countries who prevent the continuation of studies to many students and students in Slovenia, and to prevent the entry of many new students into Slovenian universities. As evidence of the fulfilment of the condition of sufficient means of subsistence in the amount of the basic amount of minimum income in the Republic of Slovenia, our proposal would re-establish the written declaration of the student's parents or legal representative that they would survive it during the study. If it is the parent, then the law of the country whose citizen is obliged to survive. The second objective of our bill was to improve the mobility of foreign students studying in other Member States of the European Union and wishing to do part of the study through student mobility mechanisms, such as Erasmus Exchange in Slovenia. Our proposal was that a third-country national who already has a temporary residence permit in one of the Member States of the European Union arriving in Slovenia on the basis of a student exchange does not need to prove that he has sufficient means of subsistence since he has already demonstrated, in the Member State of the European Union where he is being educated, that he has the resources required. And the third aim of the law was to improve the regime that allows foreign students who completed their studies in Slovenia to move to the labour market. The Legal and Legislative Service did not have any substantive comments. We have taken all the other comments into account and have therefore tabled them in the form of amendments to the Committee. Let me underline once again the key reasons for the introduction of our novel; the government's amendments to the Foreigners Act are harmful, as they threaten already registered foreign students of third countries, especially those of the former Yugoslavia. Secondly, in obtaining a residence permit, an amount of EUR 4 000 800 is required at the time of the application. Thirdly, the government law is double discriminatory as it introduces a distinction between citizens of the European Union and third-country nationals and a distinction between material and socially weaker students, which is absolutely unacceptable, since the right to education is one of fundamental human rights and freedoms and must not become a property privilege. And finally, the academic community supports this novel. The fact is that the changed conditions in practice pose an unreasonablely high and often insurmountable obstacle to a student and divide students on the basis of their economic and social status. The amendment of the law would significantly reduce the number of foreign students in Slovenian, so this amendment of the coalition law will significantly reduce the number of students, foreign students at Slovenian universities. [[…]] Foreign students who are already studying in Slovenia have changed conditions during the study, so they will not be able to do enough and will not be able to continue the study with us as a result. Amendments to the law put these students in a difficult social situation. Their recently completed educational journey will be gravely interrupted. The new conditions and inequalities introduced were not justified. Negative social and social impacts were also not presented. Finally, the question is also why such a change was even necessary if there were no problems with the current temporary stay regulation. The MNZ's clarification that the amendment was introduced by reason of the European Directive simply does not hold, since the European Directive, which was introduced by the amendment of the Foreigners Act, is nowhere in Slovenia's legal order [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] does not require such verification, but merely allows such verification of available funds. But if you want to enforce xenophobic policies, as we've been trained under this government, every excuse comes in handy, even if Minister Hojs brings it to the tail. We insist in Levika, and this problem will have to be solved and solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Černigoj will next present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u12	Madam President, thank you for your floor. A well-respected congregation. The latest government novel of the Aliens Act has brought about an amendment whereby a third-country national wishing to obtain a temporary residence permit in Slovenia can no longer prove sufficient means of survival only by a written statement from his parents' students in order to survive it during the study. With the amendment adopted, the coalition has set clear conditions that can be verified. In Novi Slovenije, we would like to reiterate that the latest novel has changed only the way of showing funds for foreign students, who will still be able to demonstrate the funds they receive from their parents or their legal representatives. All the funds shown for the decent life of a foreign student in the Republic of Slovenia will be checked by the competent authority, the administrative unit which will be able to check the funds in the account of parents or legal representatives after the adoption of the Law on Foreigners. Today's proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Foreigners, which has not received sufficient support on the parental committee, rejects the applicable regulation regarding the clear proof of the conditions of sufficient resources. The applicants also unsuccessfully wanted to change the conditions for showing sufficient resources for students who are third-country nationals and who have already successfully completed studies in Slovenia and wish to ask for an extension of their residence permit based on job search in a way that is sufficient for a written declaration. Let us not forget that respect for a mere statement in the exercise of the means of survival could also allow for possible misuses of the system. I believe that the above reasons are sufficiently weighty that in Novi Slovenija, Christian Democrats voted against the adoption of the Law on the Complementation of Foreigners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u14	Madam Vice-President, Members of Parliament and Members. I must first express my regret that the proposed solutions to the Foreigners Act have not been adopted. They would remove the harsher conditions for admission of students from third countries to Slovenian universities, which were incorporated into the law a few months ago. The Novela was adopted on a proposal from the government without the government being able to inform us of any extent of abuse of student status. Thus, students from third countries must now demonstrate sufficient means of survival for the duration of their studies. This means, in fact, that before obtaining a temporary residence permit, they must have sufficient resources in their bank account, which in practice amounts to almost EUR 5,000. This can pose an insurmountable obstacle for many students, especially those coming from the former Yugoslavia. We must be aware and accept the fact that Slovenia is not the target country for studying students from so-called rich countries and that we are also pushing away with such a measure those young students who have recognized Slovenia as a place worth studying and creating. We must be aware that young people are the largest capital and that, in the near future, universities in our neighbourhood can pay study candidates the costs associated with the study and thus attract them. And this is happening indirectly and also directly. Some private higher education institutions that behave in education for deficient professions have concluded contracts with foreign employers and aggressively attract students to study. They are also not rare road signs inviting our students, for example to the Technical University in Graz or to the University of Celovac. And let's ask ourselves where someone is going to send a child to study if they have a choice to pay for all the cost of the study. In the event of demographic change, when young people are already lacking, attracting highly qualified is one of the necessary measures to mitigate these consequences. And the Germans well know that economic growth requires labour. The current law prevents some from continuing studies with us and prevents new students from entering the law. The fact is that the new provision of the law in practice has caused quite a bit of confusion. Various interpretations have emerged and foreign students are frightened and disappointed, as many of us will be unable to study. Before the amendment proposed by the Ministry of the Interior, foreign students were able to demonstrate sufficient means of subsistence through a written statement by parents or legal representatives to support them during the study. And the proposed solutions followed the previous ones. Representatives of academic circles are also critical to such arrangements. And already in June, the Slovenian student organisation called on the Ministry of the Interior to approach the amendment of the law and abolish such conditions. They warn that as many as a dozen students in Slovenia are represented by foreigners. So our country will be deprived of a large share of intellectual potential. Finally, such legislation will have a negative impact on Slovenia's reputation in the region and beyond. In fact, we have not heard any strong arguments from the government to justify stricter conditions, just that the European Directive allows them to do so. At the same time, in the SAB, we are also negatively surprised by the passivity of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Minister Kustec, from whom we would expect her to defend an equally accessible study. So it's more than obvious that [[sign for the end of the debate]] More than apparently, the policy of the largest government has been quietly subordinated again, and again it is more than obvious that it has been quietly subordinated to the policy of the largest government party. Foreign students at Slovenian universities no doubt mean added value and contribution to development. As a rule, these are excellent students who bring intellectual potential to Slovenia. In the SAB we support the amendments in question. As a social worker [[sign for the end of the debate]] We advocate liberals for an open and accessible study, because we want Slovenia to become an open and equal country with a view to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In the spring of this year, a new Law on Foreigners, proposed by the Government, was adopted. Among other things, this novel has reached out to the provisions on the education of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia. The drafter of the law supplementing the Law on Foreigners estimates that the adopted amendment has made the situation of third-country students significantly worse. The previous arrangement allowed sufficient resources to cover the cost of living for students from third countries to demonstrate also through written statements by parents or legal representatives who are obliged to survive. Following the adoption of the novel, students are expected to demonstrate the existence of total funding for one year in advance, amounting to €4,800, before the start of the study. The aim of the proposer is to eliminate these, in his view, harmful changes and to supplement the Aliens Act, as they prevent the continuation of studies to existing students and prevent the entry of new students. It also wants to improve the mobility of foreign students and to modify the arrangements that enable foreign students who have completed their studies to move to the labour market. All of this is garnered by a high-level word on the internationalisation of Slovenian higher education, which is not allowed to be interfered with by any means and under no conditions. Internationalization actually sounds very proud. The Slovenian university space is therefore attractive to students from the white world. In a specific case, this means that 60% of foreign students come from countries originating in the republics and from the autonomous province of the former Yugoslavia, that is, not from the white world, but from the immediate neighbourhood. From countries with which we shared a common destiny within the same country before the good 1930s. That's how much data it puts. [[?]] singing internationalisation into much more realistic distractions. Interpreting the provisions of the European Directive, which has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order, with completely contradictory interpretations, is also the main reason for the proposed action. So whether a written statement by parents or legal guardians is the only way to prove sufficient means of survival. Absolutely not. The Executive also explained that the study should only demonstrate funds for one month in advance and it is not necessary that these funds are already in the account; they can also be indicated in other ways. The law in force provides, inter alia, that a foreigner may demonstrate compliance with the conditions of sufficient means of subsistence by means of funds provided for himself by the work or assistance of those entitled to support him by means of a grant [[?]] educational organisations, with a financial commitment within the framework of an exchange organisation or with funds in the accounts. The star guide of such a proposal to which we are witnessing today may not be the solution of a socially important matter, but the realization of partial interests and the truth is certainly the last thing that is being thought of in all of this. In this case, too, as has been the case for so many times, it has tried to enforce an inappropriate dispute over the right to everything and the correctness of everything. The articles of the proposed law on the working body were not adopted and the law was therefore closed. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug will be the last to present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u18	The legislative path of the bill that we have on our benches today has unfortunately ended at the meeting of the home working body, which we regret in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, as co-proposals, of course. I would not repeat the solutions proposed here, because I believe we are all well acquainted with them. I would point out, however, the misleading argument cited by the Government or on its behalf by the Ministry of the Interior at the meeting of the home working body. It is true that before the adoption of the Law on Foreigners, in March this year there was a condition for showing sufficient funding for the residence of foreign students in Slovenia. However, there has been a change in the way these funds are shown, and we all know that this is crucial. Novela has eliminated the possibility that the alien has sufficient means of survival by means of a written statement from his parents, which, of course, under the law of the country from which he comes, is obliged to survive. This means, in practice, that each student will also have to demonstrate sufficient resources by means of the funds received by the parents or their legal representative. While it is true that foreign students will not have to have nearly 5,000 euros in the account in order to study. They will also be able to demonstrate sufficient resources for one month ahead, i.e. that they have monthly income of around 402 euros in the account. In this regard, we draw attention to the economic situation of parents, especially students coming from the Western Balkans, where, for example, the minimum wage is between 200 and 300 euros. This means that students coming from these countries have to work to cover the costs of study and stay. This income, of course, at least those who enter the first years cannot prove it. The amended provisions therefore make it not only difficult to continue studies, but also prevent the admission of new foreign students to Slovenian universities. Moreover, according to our assessment, they discriminate against the socially weaker. It is sad that the Ministry of Education, which is obviously unable to defend the interests of Slovenian universities, is silent about this. In a joint statement, the Rector's Conference, as the highest body of all universities, called on the Government to amend the Foreigners Act in order to exempt foreign students from demonstrating the conditions of sufficient means of residence for the purpose of the study. We wonder why the ministry allows the state to dismiss foreign students in this way, since internationalisation is the strategic objective of higher education in all the country's development documents. The set target is 11% of foreign students in education programmes in Slovenia, because they are supposed to be rich in the study process, contribute to the reputation of Slovenian universities and contribute to the Slovenian economy and strengthen cooperation between the countries where these students come from. Such a policy, colleagues and colleagues, is twofold. Especially since, with the public support of the Ministry of Education, a fourth public university is being established and private higher education institutions are trying to transform themselves into public institutions. In doing so, the creators of these ideas in their works even suggest that a new university, due to the proximity of the border with Croatia, could attract students from the former Yugoslavia and have a beneficial impact on the education structure of the Lower Roma. What a vehementness and a hypocrisy of rulings! The data show that only a few ten Roma are involved in higher education and students from the Western Balkans are closed to their noses. Planning obstacles to prospective young students, self-sufficiency and the lack of flow of ideas will come back to us and come back to us as boomerang. The potential of young people will move to countries that appreciate knowledge and will be able to attract future intellectuals. With such moves Slovenia will not be among them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2019, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investment in Slovenian health in the years 2021 to 2031. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Robert Cugle, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u20	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Evaluation and ranking of the best and most desirable European and global institutions are carried out each year by different institutions. The evaluation is carried out according to different criteria and the order of hospitals differs from the assessor to the assessor. However, something is common to all these hospitals, which are included in this prestigious list — exceptional infrastructure, modern equipment, attractive accessibility for patients. Of course, it should be pointed out that the most important content of the hospital’s work and the final result of the patient’s treatment is, however, how do you feel about the patients entering out-of-date facilities, in the long-term hospital rooms, being treated with worn-out equipment? Probably not the best first impression. The fact is that the health infrastructure in Slovenia is obsolete. I do not want to criticize anyone and look for reasons why we have never found so much courage in the period from independence to today, to give Slovenian health a concrete financial contribution and thus make a breakthrough between the most successful. Slovenian health is good, in some areas perfectly comparable to European and global guidelines, in some areas we are even at the forefront. We have a good education system in the field of health care, we have a bunch of experts who are committed to following modern trends in the field of health care, we have a bunch of experts who are committed to following modern trends in the field of the provision of science and research services and everything that is tanning better health. Predicts for health services are not optimistic, and the need for treatment will also increase due to changed demographic indicators. There are also new diseases that put a burden on our health system. Therefore, investment in modernisation, innovation, digitisation, monitoring of development and ensuring adequate conditions for the normal functioning of institutions with a view to providing services is necessary to maintain the level of health activities and ensure adequate health care for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The law before you covers four main areas of investment in the future: investments arising from the need to rebuild existing buildings and equipment, investments arising from the need to manage the epidemic of new diseases, investments to provide long-term healthcare, investments that ensure the long-term sustainability of the health system. Certainly, without the criteria and criteria for determining investments, it is not possible. These criteria are as follows: professional criteria affecting network development, such as accessibility, population flow and disease, technical criteria, earthquake and fire stability, energy efficiency, equipment exhaustion and criteria for long-term resistance of the health system to epidemics and new diseases. Analysis shows that the Slovenian health system needs to reorganise its operations. In addition to both UKCs, we need strong regional hospitals with unified programmes, the size of which depends on the needs of the region and the smaller general hospitals, which will have to specialize in the programmes most needed by the regions. Even in the development of primary health care we must not forget and take into account all the criteria, but in particular we must not forget that those in Slovenia who live in more remote places must also get a decent personal doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this and I firmly believe that we all have the same goal here. I came personally to the Ministry of Health to help create a better future for Slovenian health. And I believe you have the same goal here, even here in the temple of democracy. This law is a guide to the future of our common Slovenian health. I believe we know and we can step together and support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother body, and I give the floor to Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u22	Well, hello, all of you! On the basis of the general debate in the National Assembly, the Health Committee is at its 56th emergency meeting. 9. 2021 examined the proposal of the Law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care from 2021 to 2031, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health mags submitted an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant. Robert Cugelj, who is with us today, stressed that the main objective of the proposal is to provide funding for the development of Slovenian health care in the planned amount of just over €2 billion. The law is urgently needed because of investments in obsolete facilities, because of the epidemic and investments for the long-term provision of healthcare and for the development of Slovenian health care. Many projects are planned at all levels of the health system. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspects. At the meeting of the Committee, her representative made comments, inter alia, on the legislator's prior commitment to provide funds up to a certain amount for the implementation of investments in Slovenian health. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. On the basis of a more detailed expert presentation of the results of the Ministry of Health analyses of the investment plan, the Commission expresses its support as it is aware of the undernutrition of the health system in terms of the longevity of buildings and equipment. The Committee also received the opinion of the Association of Slovene Municipalities, which has already submitted comments to the Ministry of Health in the public hearing process that special attention and additional financial resources should be paid to the primary level of health, as was the case with the amendment adopted. The Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia also forwarded its views to the Committee where they supported the proposal for a law. They pointed out that they had been pointing out the problem of a large shortage of funds for health investments for years. In the debate, most discussers welcomed the drafting of the bill, as financial investments in health have been neglected in recent years. However, the consequences of non-investment are most felt by patients, as well as by employees working with obsolete equipment and in inappropriate conditions. Regarding the possibility of misuse of financial resources, members of the Committee pointed to Article 7 of the draft law providing for the Government to report annually to the National Assembly on the implementation of the law in question. All the debaters agreed that health care has not been sufficiently invested in the past years and investment in the health system is indeed necessary. In their debate, some Members, particularly the opposition, considered that the level of investment funds intended for primary health care was too low, while they considered that the financial sustainability of the law was questionable. Despite differing opinions, the common view was that marriage was needed. Following the amendment adopted by the SDS, NSI and SMC groups to Article 2, the Committee voted jointly and also adopted them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general discussion at its 24th meeting on the proposal for a law to present the views of the groups of Members today is not possible. By moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate both Article 2 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups and the Non-aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest, so I'm opening a debate. Please sign in. We have nine interviewees reported. First, Mr Robert Polnar, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Pollnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Article 2 of the Law on the provision of funds for investments in Slovenian health care is that which determines the value of investments in an individual year in eleven financial years. Even with the amendment proposed today, these values are only slightly adjusted. It seems to me that the most important assessment of the objectives that have been set, achieved and achieved through each budget year is that of the objectives. In this direction, my debate will also go on, while I will consciously overlook the persuasiveness of the objectives set, their quantification and time frame. I will also focus exclusively on the Ministry of Health and the planned expenditure in this Ministry, why 87% of all expenditure is at the Ministry of Health in the overall structure of the planned expenditure. To begin with, I have reviewed the final accounts of the last six budget years at the Ministry of Health. I have found that the average expenditure on health financing, when deducted from the one-off, is those one-off expenditure which, in some budgetary years, has been markedly decommissioned or raised by expenditure upwards, so that the average annual expenditure of the Ministry of Health is approximately €93 million. At least in 2016 – 76 million and no more in 2019 – 106 million, with me deducting the 135 million and 600 000 euros in 2017 for secondary and tertiary healthcare activities. You know that this was about settling accounts that were not settled or already paid by public institutions. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, I also deducted the item called postgraduate education and training of healthcare professionals, which is now becoming standard. In 2017, 23 million euros were spent, 2018 – 40 million, 2019 – 70 million, and now around 80 million and 90 million euro in 2020 and 2021. So the basis is that the expenditure of the Ministry of Health is on average the last six budget years before the crisis, between €93 million and €95 million. This information does not in itself say anything until it is placed in the projected investment expenditure only after each year. Since 2022, values range from 184 million up, including close to 200 million. This is said to be a double or more than twice the value of the total or pre-crisis expenditure of the Ministry of Health. Even more apparent is the question which in itself raises is, of course, whether it is possible to actually finance it. It is even more apparent when we look at the last six years, two sub-programmes, namely investment investments at the primary level, which are anyway negligible because they range from 253 000 per year to 894 000 per year and what is essential, investment investments at the secondary and tertiary levels. This is where the most emphasis is on the planned expenditure. There were investments ranging from €33 million to €59 million, at least in 2018, €33 million and up to €59 million in 2015. If we compare this value with the values set out in the implementation plan or the financing of investments in the coming eleven budgetary years, then we see that it is also four times or five times the value achieved so far and, of course, from this point of view, whether it is realistic to finance it must be asked. We, ladies and gentlemen, have the situation that in 2022 we are planning with the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2 billion and 746 million euro deficits. On September 13th, yesterday, this deficit was realised in the amount of €2 billion and €753 million, it is said that it is already 7 million over the planned value on September 13th. In 2021, the budget of the Ministry of Health is €520 million, and given this amount to achieve the objective set out here, €122 million, there is no danger of not being achieved. This is also clearly stated in the explanation of the financial consequences of the law. However, problems arise immediately from 2022 onward. We have a situation that is projected to increase expenditure, which is not planned in budget 2022, and the budget for 2022 has already been adopted, with a projected minus of €1 billion and €593 million, so the projected increase in expenditure, which is not yet regulated by the budget, is estimated to be €56 million or €57 million in 2023 and €2024, and these two amounts increase significantly to €135 million and €211 million in 2022. This is what has not yet been provided in the budgets. And now I am moving on to what is most important at least from my point of view when we decide whether or not to adopt a law. This law, of course, does not hang in the air, but is an integral part of a particular fiscal environment in which we as a country are located. As regards the budget deficits for this year and next year I have mentioned. The total of these two budget deficits is four billion and 340 million. However, I think that, with regard to this particular issue, which we are addressing, the projected increase in expenditure planned in budgets 2022, 2023 and 2024 is EUR 403 million, the impact of the Long-Term Supply Act, which will be short-term in consideration in the National Assembly, where the difference in the necessary resources is taken into account after the assessment of expenditure for long-term care up to EUR 2025 806 million, should be taken into account. And, of course, on the revenue side, account should be taken of the projected reduction in expenditure or revenue under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, the negative impact by 2025 billion and 100 million euros. If we add only these four entities together, we are talking about six billion and 650 million euros that are not there. And that is also the main reason why I cannot support the proposed and established law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word, and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'm going to continue where Mr. Polnar actually ended up. He took us with his accounting knowledge on a number excursion to the past, and then he gave us a few numbers that are simple facts. Make it clear right from the start. As the Secretary of State and the President of the Health Committee have said, no one in this Chamber believes it is against investment in Slovenian health care. However, the way this government has decided to do so is contrary not to the logic of the opposition, as some think, but to the existing legislation. We have the Public Finance Act in this Chamber, which speaks very clearly about how the budget is being implemented, or about how ZIPRS is being further discussed, how the budget is being implemented, or how we can draw funds from the budget. However, if you read this law carefully, at the beginning of Article 1, you say things, you write things that you do not do. It is not regulated by the NRP, it is not the regulated financial year 2021, which is already eight and a half months into implementation, and you are already saying that you will spend something that does not exist in this budget at all. You have not come with a rebalancing that I am not talking about 2022, that I am not talking about the NRP or the strategy that you are calling and referring to in Article 1, where you say that the foundation and basis for the creation of this law are referred to the 2016-2025 strategy together with the Society of Health. Excuse me, but this law speaks of the use of funds until 2031, not until 2025. And let me remind you of the Ministry of Health. I asked you a question in the spring, in the spring, very clear and simple. When are you planning to correct the strategy that is in force until 2025, who is preparing for this strategy and when will we see it in public debate so that we can join this strategy? Do you know what kind of answer you sent me? I believe the state doesn't know this because it's not your work circle, but your other secretary of state answered me on behalf of the minister. Minister, I assume he's signed himself, just like all the ministers are now. For the first time, you know that up to 25, only a strategy is in place and that no one is dealing with the emergence of a new strategy. I have this documented. But then you refer to the strategy that is actually in the belt, which was created in 2015, when we didn't know from Covida, and we didn't even have the problem that we have today. The fact is, as some of you call yourself when you say that this is a general problem and colleague Polnar described what investments have been like in recent years and so on. These are facts, but these facts do not help us if we do not know how to plan or if we do not know how to implement existing laws. You had 1 year of time, 1 year of time to prepare for a spending strategy. We are not talking about heights because of the way in which funds were allocated and what funds could be expected from Europe, you knew as early as last September, negotiated at the end of December, confirmed this year in March, in February and until the end of a few months ago. But you knew all along that you could pump and you could count on that money. Another problem that arises is that you refer to this strategy. While this strategy mentions certain problems that you are also addressing in this law. It is undeniable, however, that there are no criteria and criteria for how this will be divided. I'm not talking about numbers, like you introduced them or how you got these funds. I don't know how you calculated that you need, I don't know, Maribor so many millions, Ljubljana, Koper, Jesenice so much, I'll say, a psychiatry or a new infection so much. I don't know whose estimates are based on what you've come up with, you don't mention it anywhere, no analyses, no serious approaches. If you have them, you have them, but it doesn't help us, because it's up to us, not you. And we will bear the consequences, not you. And that's the difference, and that's why we're expecting answers. And not us gropathic with the same sentence, it's Slovenian health care. We all know that, and we're all in favour, but the way we're going to get there is extremely problematic. You know why? Because I don't know what the order will be. How did you decide what you'd start first? We don't know how you got there. Where is this weight, I say, of responsibility? Then the next thing that seems crucial to me, of course, is primacy. We have already spoken on the Committee on Health about the need to increase funds, then with the amendments, a coalition that was virtually identical to the opposition, of course, confirmed that there is an increase in funds, which is nothing wrong, we welcome this, thank God, but I have another problem that I have mentioned and will repeat today. How we will determine who these funds will belong to, given that the primary part belongs to the local community and that the local community is autonomous and is essentially planning the investment in accordance with its budgetary acts and the strategic acts it must have under law. And you will not execute or do it together with the local community, they will authorize you, they will not write it anywhere, it is not clear where it will be. And most importantly, who and which mayor will be this lucky man who can get to these funds. Last time I heard the Secretary of State reply that the Local Self-Government Act was written down somewhere, that everyone could apply for this call or I just don't know how it would be designed yet, and that they would be able to compete on these funds. Sorry, that's not true. Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government contains only the tasks of local self-government. It doesn't say who under the same conditions, because it's basically another law. But there's another problem. In particular, the problem is that to date, if you have changed your way, tell me where it says in which article of the law, they can only expect funding from the country when, of course, they cannot comply with that basic principle, and this is about appropriate spending – because you know what this means – when they do not have enough resources to function and operate local self-government by their own means. Except we don't count investment in this. There's no investment here. So where is this key now, how are we going to distribute it? Why do I mention this; Ljubljana has been unable to compete to nothing for 30 years, except under the City of Ljubljana Act, but it has nothing to do with the health system under the Main City Act. Investing in health care does not count at all because this is not a realization of the purpose of this law, which means that it will fall out of this work again. Why this is important – because I do not know why it must be so in this country that some citizens in their local community always have to pay for their local community and for their needs, and in others they do not need it, they simply do not. They just don't have enough money. We all know where the reason is. We all know that some congregations are too small and have been politically established. At least forty of them. But these congregations are always rewarded for having little money and will be rewarded again. But it makes sense or not, but that is not what I'm going to say justly, because we would actually deserve all equal access. That's another question. But we're not talking about it in this marriage again. Then the next thing is, you were talking about education. I don't know when and when in history it's happened that one ministry has taken over another ministry. We have heard from the Secretary of State on the Health Committee that she is the Minister of Finance, I do not know if she is, but surely someone from the Ministry or the inter-departmental agreement on the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, that there is a fear or concern that if these funds, these 200 or I do not know how many million and some, of course, transferred 250, yes. If it is transferred to the Ministry of Education, that money will be lost and then not spent on what is essentially supposed to be – and this is intended for investments – I will say in the areas of education for the needs of the health system. We all know what that means. Very general. And now, these funds are supposed to be at the Ministry of Health. Sorry, that's crazy. I have never heard such a thing before, he has not seen it, because you know that the Ministry, every ministry, especially the Minister of Finance, has the possibility of a so-called budget fund with which they lock the funds, is locked down. They spend strictly on purpose precisely for the purpose laid down by the Act and that is it. There's no need for a guardian from the Ministry of Health. You know why it's important because I want to see that you're really only involved in investment in health care, not in education. And far from being necessary, I don't know why we have the Ministry of Education. I really don't know why we have it, nor do I see any need for such a way of raising funds. The next thing I think is important, given that this is a huge amount of money, most of it from the EU, in fact, how this will be monitored, given that the act, the law that we are adopting today, does not set anything. Who's gonna control it? While I am not saying that we have not yet appointed state prosecutors, who could be the only one responsible for these large budgetary resources or European funds, who control or prosecute future crimes in the event of the misuse of these funds. Because the fact is, it's going to be a lot. Then the next thing I think is important to mention. My colleague, Polnar, was very good and wise in pointing to a matter called long - term care. Although he mentioned the sentence, he said – we will soon have a marriage on the table. I'm afraid we won't have it even next month, because you know that a few laws are "stopping" this law and it can't even come on the agenda, so it's crazy to expect all those who tell them fairy tales for a good night, that we're going to talk about it in a short time, because we won't. But when we do, we will, of course, find that we will need strong resources, but this path will not be in ten years, but we will need them every year in the amount of between €600 and €800 million, when we see the actual needs they are or will be accepted and written into law. That's a serious problem. Why is that a problem? Because it is an injury to the Ministry of Health because, of course, it will be able to further raise these funds or control and direct them through the health treasury, depending on how this law will be adopted, because we do not know yet, we can only foresee it. While you are already in long-term care predicting that we will be using these funds, we will accept rights today, but consumption, as this law has been written, will be accepted in 2024, 2025. How will we plan this budget under the fiscal rule, with all the problems that are yet to come, I have no idea. But all I know is that it works more and more, that someone is in a hurry to adopt laws with nice big numbers, which, of course, is expected to be some kind of profit from it, but eventually we'll run into obstacles and problems. On the Health Committee, I listened to a colleague who discussed and said, listen, but this law is not to prescribe criteria and criteria, and so that we will now discuss precisely and in detail here at some time, to whom, why and in what way, but just and only to have a basis that so many and so many billions of dollars can actually be given for investments, and then we will manage everything on the basis of this. Sorry, so we have already made one investment in this country and ended up not knowing how to maintain energy in the Republic of Slovenia today. And some seriously have a headache about how we're gonna pull this off. But this marriage has a very similar problem to the Defence Act, because it's very similarly written. Go take a look, because you know very well that the same author was involved in the drafting of this law in the same way. So much and so much money, over so many years and so many years, unmatched criteria, inadequate criteria, as Serbs would say, "this after" when the time comes. Not to deal with it now, but to someone, let's just define the numbers. And then there's one more thing, and I mentioned it, and I have to say that I am, and I don't know how you're going to do it. Of course, we are in the past years, or up to two years ago, no one actually, I'll say, was a health system of some kind of chocolate, just like defense. The defense, because it always happened to him, could be small, because no one there was whining, but it was given somewhere else, it was just such a sports day when the budget was adopted, the amendments flew to all possible items, but it was only a defence. But that's what happened with the health system. There's a health check, there's so much money and so much if it runs out, but we're going to do it somehow, and no one's ever done it again, but the budget wasn't going to do much for it because it was all computer and it was betting on the health department. But when Covid came, when it came to the dimension, which he was told was literally starting to shut down the system, and even for a period of time, the whole health system was dealing exclusively with Covid, and today I wonder, we're going to be throwing so many and so many millions into the health system in the walls. I don't mind, but I don't mind that it's unplanned or that when I vote for it, I don't know what this is going to be about. I have listed in only objects what it should be, but I don't know whether it'll be in the form of a new building, or whether it'll be in the form of a foundation, or whether it'll be in the form of equipment, or what it will be? [[…]] How's that gonna work? What will be the dynamics? We don't know anything. I have a serious problem because, on the other hand, we have adopted a law a month ago that speaks of a national call to shorten waiting periods, and we now have a full hospital and it is clear to everyone that the departments will be signed, and that this national call will not be able to be implemented again, which has also been accepted once before last year, but has failed again, and the patients are waiting and waiting and waiting. You know, there's nothing new years of surgery can do for me if I don't even come to the O.R. program. There's nothing to do with a nice, beautiful prevention, but if we can prevent it, there's nothing to do with me, because I'm not getting there. And that's a serious problem. And these answers should be given to me at the same time. Some people will say, we're talking about investments now, we're talking about waiting types, and we're talking about patients and so on. Yeah, and my problem is, because a lot of people are turning at me, and I already know a lot of people when it's too late, not because they were superficial, irresponsible, or anything else, but simply because they didn't get to the doctor. We have a problem at the beginning because people don't have a selected personal doctor anymore. What helps me the new Medical Home Moste, Vič, Polje, Celje, I don't know what else, I can also list all health care homes throughout Slovenia if they don't have their own selected personal doctor. Last time someone said yes, but if you don't have it, go to SNMP. Excuse me, you know that SNMP is not the same as a personally selected doctor. You go to SNMP when you're already in pain, when the problem is over and sometimes it's too late. And here, of course, someone will have left-handed responsibility. I am sorry that you have to listen to those who will be involved in investment today, especially because I do not express my dissatisfaction, the great dissatisfaction that today, but not only today, in practice, except in the hiring of the Minister of Health, I have no longer seen in the National Assembly. I didn't see him. With an investment that has been one of the biggest investments in the country in the past ten years, this minister has said nothing. I'm sorry, then how am I supposed to believe that this is all true? If I were the secretary of state, I'd talk to my minister and tell him, dear minister, there really was an epidemic in the country, and you really have a problem, but we're defending one of the biggest investments. Go before the Members and tell them what a serious matter it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Now the Secretary of State wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, we have heard several times about the problems of this resolution. Now you want to hear the resolution or you don't want to hear whether it's a political document or anything, you've accepted it here at the temple of state democracy and it's in force. And the Ministry of Health is obliged or we do not want to follow this document. This document isn't exactly written like that. I believe you know him very well, but there are a lot of things written in the future that will happen in Slovenian society and which activities, pathologies and so on will need to be strengthened in this Slovenian society. And without this resolution, we cannot plan for the next future. I therefore do not know why such a problem is when we state that the resolution document has also been taken into account in the drafting of this law. Now I don't know where the problem is that the law won't comply with so-called public finance laws. I really don't get it. In terms of the basic and sole purpose of the law, which means the acceptance of the obligation and the commitment to provide funds for investment in Slovenian health care in the coming years of the two billion euro circus, as set out in Article 4. And this law does not say anywhere that existing financial legislation will not be complied with. Now, as far as the congregations are concerned. The Ministry of Health has two ways of financing municipalities through a call for proposals or it can decide which investments it will support. Today, or on the Health Committee, he adopted an amendment of €150 million. As you know, there are more than 190 million needs at the primary level of Slovenian health care. Now, as far as the criteria are concerned, the Member of Parliament has mentioned this. I fully agree, the criteria are necessary. And today I listed them, and I also listed them on the Health Committee. Even more, I have shown you how these criteria will be taken into account, how they are already respected. At the Ministry of Health, we don't just make investments at the beginning. And also on the Health Committee, I showed you 28, in fact, 22 investments, which are already classified as priority funding, on the Health Committee. So we don't really choose our investments, but we go according to our priorities, and we also go after those investments where the funds are provided. I also made it clear on the Health Committee that EUR 408 million has already been provided through European funds. You know these European projects React, RRF, cohesion and so on. Now, as far as control of this law is concerned. See, there are a number of supervisory institutions in Slovenia that are responsible for overseeing our work. Article 7 of the Law also states the function of the National Assembly. And the National Assembly will have a report every year to see what has been done on these investments. So you have a comprehensive review of what will be done. Now, however, I would still touch on the national invitation to tender, which is certainly not a topic, because I also run it at the Ministry. National call, I fully agree that Covid Hospitals have occurred, but we still have some capacity in the Slovenian health area to implement the national call as envisaged. 20,000 patients will be treated in 2 years at this national invitation to tender. Me, too, I'm in a lot of pain when I look at waiting times. And it is right to deal with them together as the Member of Parliament has said, but at the Ministry we are seriously trying to shorten these waiting periods as far as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u29	Thank you very much. If you turn it off again, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you. We continue the debate. The following is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mr Jožef Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we have already discussed this law quite a bit and had quite a few options to discuss. First of all, in the context of the so-called first reading, there was a general debate, and last Friday we also discussed the law on the home committee. Now I have just listened to fellow Member Jani Möderndorfer, and here I am obliged to answer some of the questions, some of the things raised, or some of the things he sees as incorrect. Now it is necessary to speak clearly and loudly. On the home committee, not only was the bill adopted, but there was no one to vote against it. There were divergent opinions, divergent views on individual matters, particularly as regards the cut-off of funds. As the law itself, no one voted against. Now you know, for my part, I am also surprised by the debate by a fellow Member, who has practically started the debate in the way that everything in this law is wrong, that someone is even allowed to give such a thing to himself on the bench of the National Assembly. But, as it is said, both the general debate and the committee have shown that this is not so that the law is needed and that it is basically also good. Now, if you really think that the LMŠ party is so bad, I really don't understand why they signed under the common amendment, because from a bad marriage, as bad as they have now explained in all areas, you can't fix it. But more importantly, they so believe in this law that they believe that there is also a need for additional funds that will go to the primary level and are needed there. And I answer you, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we agree with the opposition. True, the primary level is that base. After all, patients actually have the most initial contact with the primary level, and the primary level can also be one that can cover a lot of things. But that's why he needs the proper infrastructure, and I'll say human resources. For if we just upload and upload to the primary level, we will not achieve what is desired, it is true to reduce waiting types and also to treat patients appropriately. That is why I am responding today to the opposition by the Slovenian Democratic Party that, after you have already tabled a similar amendment on the Committee – we have at that time advocated some 150 million in common observations also in the coalition and with the competent ministry we have come to the point that we can only support the issue, as far as the opposition is concerned, and we believe that we will add these 50 million more, so that the primary level can be allocated 200 million. In short, I hope that this will be heard and we will not continue to receive how we do not hear or cooperate. It bothers me, however, that the debate by the opposition Members on this proposal of the law has already started very negative, very negative. Therefore, I think that this law does not have a need, or it does bring an important solution in this country. Now, you know, years and years we've talked about the state of our health. I've actually been listening to this for a second term. And then I went online and found an article “The state of health has never been so bad.” This was the title of one article, “The state of health has never been so bad.” And you know how long this article has been since 2013. But today, in 2021, what did we do? What can the opposition today present about health care? All we've been listening to in this National Assembly all day, forgive me, is whether we've been engaged in public health or have private health care, or whether we're going to have public health, or whether we're going to have private health care. But someone will do extra work, or this one won't be allowed to work. But if we were to go into this story and actually listen to experts, we would find that we really don't have public health, but we do have state health. But everything nice and right, whatever we call it, health care must follow the patient’s needs or needs. And in fact, I don't care in some way about what you're going to call these things. The most important thing for me is that there are no more waiting types and that people, in accordance with the insurance system and everything else we have, get and get their services. We need to talk about this, not just any intimidation or even hearing that some doctors should not do any extra work. Please. Which profession in the country makes it impossible for anyone to work extra. Even Members of Parliament do, some of them do a fifth job, and some of you turn it around so that it's not in accordance with the law, but let's just leave it. In short, in this way we certainly did not get to a better staffing structure and more effective public health, but in a completely different way. And one of the important ways is for sure the organisation of work and investment in the building itself and equipment, which, of course, will again enable better organisation of work and additional resources, of course, also for human resources completion. This is also a very important educational aspect, as the needs are greater every day and it is essential that we take a step forward. And on the other hand, of course, we prevent the escape of white collars, but of course because here in the first place they say not only that they are not well-rewarded enough, but above all that the work as just is no longer sustainable. Yes, the difference is that before us this bill is before us and, of course, some do not want to admit that even in the time of the so-called "disease" in the world, this government has been able to take steps in these areas. We are all also aware that it is the Coronavirus that has further pointed to the entire system’s misery, but this system has already endured, but it has been really difficult to see patients in the corridors and the staff who are somehow being tortured in one way or another, of course, able to help the sick. And finally, it's statistics that show how successful our healthcare professionals were, because, given the sick and then cured, we have one of the highest percentages in Europe, so we've been more than successful and that's positive. Therefore, I hope that citizens and citizens are also now following the many from day to day these calls are more important than ever to decide on vaccination and to help them face the virus and overcome the disease in this way too. Finally, I would also like to point out that when we talk about investments, how important and necessary and, of course, how important this primary level is, of course, that we are increasingly dealing with the so-called long-term Covid. I'm not a health expert, but sometimes I wonder, God forbid we ever need a whole specialty in this area in the future. The fact is that these so-called patients with, if I say, extended Covid are getting more and more and these things are not so simple and some actually need long-term therapy after all. And then there are different segments of health care in here. Previously it was said that the law was not the most represented, there were no specific parts to be had, etc. Look, the law generally tells you exactly where the funds will go. The tables are also years from now. It is also a fact that in what way it will be implemented, but of course all this law cannot be foreseen, because individual projects are now needed and then implementation is needed on the basis of these prepared projects. But all of this will be controlled in some way by the National Assembly, as we will have annual reports on how successful we are in implementing this law. I say yes, a fundamental difference like in the previous government, for example, when Dusan Keber earned thousands of euros for a marriage that is nowhere to be found, and today, on Ljubljana streets, he screams about how this government is destroying health care. Well, that's for anals. Now, the Long-Terms Act has also been exposed. I wish this one would be as soon as possible. It is funny, however, that some people are reading, colleague Möderndorfer I think he was also talking about it in the previous debate, that he is still not there. I wonder what you've been doing for years and years that he's gone. But I do know that the law is ready to be, in fact, just a matter of time before we can deal with it. [[…]] I'm not talking about this law anymore. I think I've said a lot before and even on the parental committee. I'm just going to say one thing again, and I'm not going to talk about how this law brings certain solutions in the area where I'm elected, because that's another thing for me. First of all, it seems important to me that the law makes progress in the field of health for the whole of Slovenia. And citizens and citizens of this Slovenia have not only the right, but health as well as not only one of the constitutional categories, but one of the highest constitutional categories. In fact, it's almost the highest. And it's high time we started to take that into account and move things around. When money has been said, and what with the budget and so on, the country's indicative budgets are actually known and there are always derogations. However, you know that the budget always reflects the priority of individual governments or coalitions. What a priority an individual coalition has, then it is up to them and we believe that all coalitions in the future will be more favourable to the health care sector and that we will actually be able to make these things happen. And just one more thing, I don't think I have to apologize to the minister, because he's not with us today, but we hear that a lot. Now, it is not necessary to have a minister with us, but he is always with us at all the meetings of the Committee and also at the meetings of the State Assembly, a representative of the Ministry of Health. Today, the Secretary of State is with us, who was finally more than successful, and please allow me just two sentences about you. More than successful in the area of rehabilitation. Their Soč Institute has shown not only good results, but it represents the concept of European quality and good business. With good business and their own share, they have actually made a lot of investments themselves, even though they have been warning since 2018 that they need the necessary additional investment funds. But as they say, they've done a lot on their own. And if anyone, then surely today is the Secretary of State who is with us, the right person to tell us about, I will tell you the investments that we need in health for the next ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u31	Mr Joseph Lenart, next debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to the guests from the Ministry and, of course, to the other guests present. So we have on the table and we are discussing the amendment to Article 2 of the amended Law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care between 2021 and 2031. With the amendment, it is proposed that between 2021 and 2031 the primary health rate should be increased from €50 million to €200 million. So what is the debate today? We are talking about a very important matter, we are talking about a very important law for Slovenian public health, a law for the provision of funds for investment in Slovenian health, which is currently being tabled by the Government under the direction of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is a covered amount of €2 billion over the next 10 years. But it is also an urgent solution to the poor financial situation and the stagnation of investments in Slovenian health care, so, if we say somehow, the state of so-called zero investment, which lasted almost two decades. Below, it must be said that we are probably all in here united on the fact that buildings, medical devices, or other resources needed for the good functioning of our health care, are obsolete, some are also dangerous for employees, even for our patients, i.e. users who are admitted to health care or hospital care. Statistics also say something, and these statistics actually say that in Slovenia we have only 10 beds per 100,000 inhabitants of hospitals, and from this follows or takes us somehow among the members of the European Union 17th place, which is not envying. And of course, the epidemic has shown that somehow we were almost barefoot here, even though we have now somehow taken away. Such an opinion as the current Minister has, of course, was also the opinion of the two former Health Ministers, who have actually led the Ministry of Health since this mandate, this call of this National Assembly somehow. And, of course, we have to say that now that this government has taken over its mandate and, of course, the Minister of Poklukar has acted, it has somehow come to realize that we are, otherwise it will not work, as it has to invest heavily in Slovenian health. If I recall one of the oral questions that I was asking Minister Fakin about two years ago, about the emergency centre in Ptuj, he told me then, look, we know that you urgently need a modern emergency centre, but you also need a lot of equipment, a lot of things that, or without which the work of doctors and staff is, of course, almost impossible to do. And he assured us that, somewhere else, as we have now, I will say, somehow argued by the Ministry, those images on the Health Committee probably put us on the real ground a little bit, as they say at home. So in the previous government, I have to say that there was not enough corruption to move things, and that there is sufficient knowledge and awareness in this government that without extensive investment, the situation in Slovenian health care cannot be changed. So I am pleased that the Ministry and the Minister of Hearing for the wishes and needs of local communities and the management of hospitals and Members, which, of course, we present these wishes to him in some way. By stating the law, we will commit ourselves to providing comprehensive funds for the modernisation and progress of UKC Maribor and UKC Ljubljana. It is also stated and we will undertake by law to regulate and modernise the operation block and intensive therapy department at the General Hospital of Ptuj and, of course, elsewhere, what is needed, throughout the country. Somehow around this General Hospital Ptuj I would like to remind you that it is essential for good health care for all Lower Ptuj and wider. By agreeing in the Slovenian Democratic Party and also in the coalition parties to add 100 million to the planned investment in primary health care, the proposal, at the initiative of the municipalities of Slovenia as well as the associations of health institutions, has fallen today, and then this amendment from the opposition, to devote an additional 200 million to primary health or to EUR 200 million to primary health, together in 2021-2031, two billion and 93 million euros in Slovenian health. That is why, of course, I support this good plan for the recovery of Slovenian health care, because where will is also the way, this government does not rest, work and, of course, build Slovenian health and build Slovenia. On this occasion, I just add that today is actually somehow or we are in September, the golden month of September, in which we are also aware of children's cancer, so I want all the good and good luck to all the sick children, and I also call for responsible action and respect for measures against covid-19 and respected citizens, vaccination, Slovenian health is worthy of our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish has the next word, Mr Jožef Horvat is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. On the subject of public health, its financing and its investment, which is currently under discussion under this specific law, I have prepared a debate which could be divided into three parts. The first part is the diagnosis of what a general picture is in our public health system or how it is nourished. The second set is the question of how this investment health law, which the government has passed on the table, responds to these needs in which we can take it seriously and in which no third part of the debate is still a staff compliment of iron and concrete, which does not go into updating our public health system. So if we start with basic diagnostics, we will very quickly find that the Slovenian public health system in a set of political priorities is a terrible cap for all the developed countries that we so strongly want to compare with. 2018, 5.8% of GDP was the share of public funds allocated to the functioning of the healthcare system. We are comparing ourselves with the average of developed countries in the European Union. There is a share of public funds, public investment in the health system, i.e. what comes from the state budget is 7.2%. For example, if I translate you into absolute numbers, after these trends, Slovenia has spent very long on public money between EUR 500 and 600 million a year not enough for the full functioning of the health system, before we can even make investments, we can see how very low health care and its public funding is placed on the priorities of every single government, not just the current third government of Janez Janša, including all its predecessors. For 500 to 600 million euros a year, we are only short for health activities. And someone will say, yes, these are the numbers by which we compare ourselves with more developed countries, which are also richer than the Republic of Slovenia. Yes, but this number that I gave, so 500 to 600 million euros a year, is underdeveloped by a percentage of gross social product. This is not to say that we would not have enough money in Slovenia to implement a better quality health system and to give it more public funding. It is only because of how many of these public funds each time the political set is actually ready to be allocated. So it is not that we cannot afford this extra half billion euros a year. Every time the government said we didn't want them. The result is, of course, an increasing waiting period and an ever-increasing supply of people and people of Slovenia who benefit from our public health system. There's also a quiet privatisation agenda in the back. Public health in our country, among the people, still ranks as a value. People do not want to go to a doctor with a bank card, but they do well to come to a doctor with a medical card and be medically insured on a solidarity basis. And because the political establishment in its privatisation intentions does not want to face this public sentiment, it does. How? By gradually starving public health care, it rewards privacy, which increasingly and more assumes the role of drawing on public funds and the care of the population. I'm sorry. Let us see what has happened in the last year and a half under the rule of John Janša. Those calls to shorten waiting periods, which were really just a tool, a mechanism, a channel, define this as you wish, to drain the money of all citizens and citizens, public money, into private pockets. Which brings me forward to investments that are not in any better condition than other financing of healthcare. What I will tell you below is a quick review, as well as a sense of the situation in Slovenian hospitals. We prepared this review in Levica last year at the beginning of the year, when we convened a meeting or, indeed, EUR 780 million is needed for the purchase of new armoured personnel or we would rather divert these funds to the health system. The question was already then, and remains rhetorical today – this money needs to be devoted not to foreign military-industrial complexes, but to the needs of citizens and citizens in the country; their health needs are certainly first. Well. Petra State Hospital – a complete mess. The operating rooms were closed a few years ago, and there was no ventilation system in them. They have windows that don't tighten, very old are hospital beds. The walls are broken, the beds are for write-off, and the bathrooms are useless. There are parts of a hospital where there are no sanitation at all. Now some money is in the investment plan, but too little and too late. In the Šempeter-Nova Gorica hospital, almost all medical equipment is worn out. Lack of specialists and other healthcare professionals, especially nurses. The departures are huge. By the way, the situation has worsened significantly over the last year. At the same time, in 2019 30 people were fired, which they explained as substitutes. There are more waiting patients every day, the longest waiting time for first examinations can be 280, and these are data before the Coronavirus epidemic. They have devices that fail all the time. The Golnik Clinic, which was one of the first defensive lines of the Corona virus in the first wave of the epidemic, is 100 years old and fully prolonged. The earthquake is not safe at all, but architecture does not allow for modern treatment of patients. Maribor General Hospital is still waiting for a new infectious department. Let me remind you, this was written in the context of the first wave of the epidemic. The current department, i.e. this already mentioned time gauge, is so useless that they were not able to treat patients at the time of the epidemic. Patients were treated in other areas. The current infectious clinic is the oldest building in the house with narrow corridors and doors that do not even allow the hospital bed to be turned. The expansion due to the age of the building is not possible because it could collapse. At the General Hospital Celje they are preparing for the renovation and expansion of the premises, which will continue until 2024. Even in Celje, the rooms are long. The oldest building in which they carry out medical activities is even from 1887. Two centuries ago, ladies and gentlemen, this building dates back to the 19th century. Even in all rooms there is no water, we also have rooms where there are 6 to 7 patients, a year ago or a good year ago for TV Slovenia was told by the professional director of the General Hospital Celje. It's a hospital in the fall. At the end of 2019, they renovated the physical and rehabilitation facilities, which were very long-term. What is the state's attitude in this case also strongly disreputable is the fact that they had to cover this investment with the help of donors. We're moving on to the Ptuj hospital. It's been a long time since human resources malnutrition, and lately it's been getting more and more spatial. They have one problem that has replaced one problem. In the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec we have a surgical gynaecological block, which is permanent, non-functional, residential and sanitaryly inadequate, and earthquake-threatening, built between 1959 and 1964. What have we heard in this National Assembly over the last year and a half on the subject of long-term infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen? How do we have soldiers who are 30 years old but who are 40 years old? And here we have hospitals that have been operating in rooms since the 19th century. The situation in other health institutions is nothing more sweet than what I just said. All of this testifies to how seriously the health investment situation is under way and how little the government has so far given to investing in hospitals as a priority for the health care of citizens and citizens. But then the government of Janez Janša, who introduced a law into the procedure, claimed to solve all these accumulated problems and all the investment backlogs in one year, said that it would pour almost EUR 2 billion into the needed new facilities and into new equipment. Sounds very nice. I wish that were true. Don't get me wrong. In Levi, we will support this law, not because we believe the intention of the proposer, but because, unlike the proposer, we actually believe that large-scale investments in the public health system are necessary and I stress once again as a political priority and not as some kind of framework legislative action just before the elections. This vote, for this law, is not a voice of confidence in the government, but it has sent a voice to the next government to take this document, unlike the government of Janez Janša, seriously, to repair it where it needs to be repaired and to continue to follow it at a rate of 150 to 200 million euros in investment in public health infrastructure every year. I think that any government that is called a serious anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - The fact that investment is placed on the list of its priorities would indicate that we are willing to cut across the existing policy, as usual and actually establish a government that will work for people, not for different lobbyes and for capital. Why I say that the Government is not serious about this law, but it is not only that we have dealt with the law that provided the means of arms a year ago, but we have been waiting for the health law for months to come. That is what I am saying and I can also say because of the situation in which this law came into the national assembly. For starters, this law is an account without a tavern and is entirely dependent on the political will of each government. Why? Due to the fact that no specific dedicated source is attached to a list of investments where these investments will be financed. And this Health Investment Act is not the only case. Similar Government Hits [[?]] With the Long-Term Care Act, which beats the chest to resolve the situation for 20 years, it also lacks a key point, as with the Health Investment Act, that is financial coverage. In particular, the government which is investing in the Health Investment Act cannot take seriously if we know that, at the same time, when it comes to the budget, and not to the financial resources, it hangs up future funding, the stalemate by reducing income on high incomes, it talks about the introduction of a social cap, it reduces public income on the highest wages and so on. In short, the sawfish know the countries in which we all sit together, including our public health system. And as long as they're all Shirtzev [[?]] tax burdens on the richest are actually accepted, then in the budget poof will run out of money for the quality investments that people in this country need. Yes, among these investments that will run out, we can also count on investments in the public health system, and it is not clear in this law how much funding will go to individual items in a given year. So, let's be clear, we know how much funding will go for both UKCs. We also know how much funding will be allocated in 2022. However, the law does not explain how much funding will be earmarked for both UKCs in 2022. It's just an example. With this key, we can address all other items that lack such information. And a third example of why we cannot take this law of the government of Janez Janša seriously for its purpose by the proposer, and we take it seriously in Levika, unlike the government it has proposed. However, it is the fact that financial resources and their consumption are not confined exclusively to public infrastructure for public benefit, but are intended for public institutions and nursing hospitals and nursing homes under the long-term care system, which means, as is the case, that financial resources are also provided for other legal persons or private providers of long-term care. We have tabled an amendment on this subject in Levica, and we have tabled an amendment in the democratic opposition with a committee hearing, and the Government has, of course, rejected it. Why – you can imagine, ladies and gentlemen, why. The motive of Janez Janša's power over the past year and a half, as we can monitor at virtually every step, is to flow public funds into private pockets. [[Incomprehensible]] And while he waves through this law for extensive public investment in hospitals, of course, he deliberately gardens holes where he can additionally privatize these public funds. That is why I say that I support the basic dimensions of the law in the sense that over the next decade, €2 billion is in short supply to public investment in public health infrastructure. At the same time, I say that the next Government will have to sew in this law the privatisation holes that the current Government deliberately drilled in. And to conclude, let us not forget that hospitals are not just equipment and concrete walls, black as I have tried to present to you in my debate, the length of this equipment and these spaces is a major problem. But they only live if they're filled with trained, motivated, satisfied health workers. And these are chronically lacking. Let's just think about the terrible situation in which the nurses got into. And we have a situation in the field of medical staff, including in the field of doctors, where it is necessary to point your finger directly at the medical insurance lobby, in particular at the Medical Chamber, which until recently held scissors and canvas calls for specializations. And of course, since the doctor's lobby has settled into medical organizations and turned them into a service for only part of the most privileged part of the medical profession, we have had very few specialties signed for a long time, and we also have an incentive. And what happened, a year later, two years later, a decade later, two decades later, we find out how badly all possible doctors are missing from all possible areas. This was artificially created mannequin in order to ensure a strong position of existing Mandarin work within the medical profession, which usurped positions especially within public hospitals and from this position can now blackmail patients, force the public health system and force the state for ever-increasing more privileges and more privatised public money. At the same time as investments, however, it is also necessary to consider addressing the human resources deficit and the human resources deficit, and also to roll up sleeves in this area. To conclude, just to conclude, let me stress once again that the government of Janez Janša will not do so. They are just pretending to work and under the cover of public investment they want to cement their own power as much as possible and feed the networks they have around them. From this point of view, I believe that this own Health Investment Act is also being considered and laughed at. And I think that the next government must, in spite of this practice, cut off and do what the Government of Janez Janša does not want to do, it is that the Law on Investing in Health, unlike its proposers, actually takes it seriously and implements it better than the current government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Word [[…]] A replica? Here you go, Anja Bah Žibert, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman. Otherwise, I did not intend to replicate to my colleague Kordiš, who made me laugh in this debate in particular, but there are some things that I have to say because of citizens and citizens. First of all, to be clear, this government does not just give money to the Slovenian Army or to the Slovenian soldier who is in the service of the country, who, like such a Slovenian army, is in some crazy pain. We also put money on all other areas, the police, many infrastructure projects, education, school renewal and so on, and yes, we also give money to health. Now, I really don't know what purpose you think we have, it's a little funny, but the fact is that such a proposal of law when you were a super-coal client wasn't, if you were, would definitely support it, and probably even some covid hospital situation would probably be easier to do in this account. We also devote a great deal of money to European funds, so I think there is no fear for this law. But it is true that I strongly or strictly oppose anyone trying to convert this positive law simply because he has problems with himself. Because he knows that such a law cannot be supported, but of course it seems terrible to support anything that does not come from their kind, which is very bad because it indicates the unconstructive functioning of this party. And one more thing. It was already clear on the parental board that it was not going and that money would not go into any private pocket, but into the public health system. This has been said many times, and it is also stated in the law. And it really doesn't have to be written in every other line, the public system, the public system, because it was written, it was written and it was presented. So you're not scared, and the money will go to public health and to our patients. But I'm sorry, I just... [[sign for the end of the debate]] When you were in the coalition, you didn't make such a law yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u37	Thank you very much. A representative of the Magi government has the floor. Robert Chugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I would like to reiterate the purpose of this law. The purpose of this law is to provide financial resources for the implementation of the most important investments in Slovenian health care. Now, the legislator has gone even further and in the second article he has quite precisely distributed the funds that are defined for each area. These funds did not come from today until tomorrow; those who were able to participate and participate on the Health Committee saw under what criteria these funds were allocated to individual chapters or hospitals. So we haven't been able to determine these assets. However, it is a fact that these funds are set very precisely for individual departments, for individual hospitals and so on. Now, as far as the personnel are concerned. We are aware that the personnel in Slovenian health care are an extremely big problem. However, according to surveys conducted, where is the biggest problem with Slovenian personnel? I guess you all know, these are working conditions. First of all, there were working conditions. In the second place, the organisation of work and only in third place pays. So another indication of why this marriage is necessary and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u39	Thank you very much. If you turn off the microphone, please. Procedurally Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Now, the legislator has not yet laid down much in this law, because the law is still pending. What is stated is what the proposer, that is, the government, wrote in it. Among other things, the Secretary of State said at first reading that a study had been carried out at the Ministry on the construction of regional hospitals, but that the same study had been obsolete. Now, on the basis of this recognition by the applicant of an outdated study, we are adopting legislation that is supposed to remedy the situation. Nothing says more eloquently how much the government of John Janša does not take this law seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I would like to remind you that this was not a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal may refer to the course of the meeting and the management, and I call on you not to use the rules of procedure. The text was also wanted by a government representative, Mag. Robert Chugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u42	Now, Mr Kordish, I don't know if you were on the Health Committee, I don't think so, because you might know exactly that the criteria I presented are not just from this study. And this study is obsolete in one part, and by no means available to patients. So it doesn't make sense that we're arguing now that the study isn't right or that it's okay. Various criteria were presented to identify and identify the need for Slovenian health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The next is Joseph Horvat, to prepare Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Regardless of the level of debate, I am pleased and expect this law to be adopted today as on the committee, my assessment, with a large majority, perhaps without even a vote against. I do not think that the health of our people, the health of Slovenia and the Slovenians should be a field of political disagreements or political disputes. Today, it is not the subject of assessing the effectiveness of these or previous governments. I agree with my forerunner, who is now leaving the hall, when he said how little the governments have invested in health care. That's about what he said. All I can do is sign under it. The evaluation of efficiency, which will not be given in this Chamber, nor the efficiency of this government, as it was said, nor of the previous governments, will be discussed by voters. And what is most encouraging to me is this moment, practically the only thing we have, what this coalition can directly communicate with people, are government field visits. Today, one of these takes place and will be visited by the end of the year on average on 2 visits per month. There I meet key decision makers of a particular region who all talk about the effectiveness of this government, our governments, Slovenian governments and want us to continue at least another mandate. They put it this way: “How much work is being done now, as much as is being invested, has been gone for a long time.” And this is what those who are monitoring investments in infrastructure, I think, transport infrastructure, those who are finally getting some money after more than 10 years to update the R & D infrastructure, those who have been following for a long time and are critical to the poor funding of local communities and so on and so on. But now we have on the table the Law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care from 2021 to 2031 and we are talking about the amendment table. This amendment will support Nova Slovenija, despite the fact that I have not actually seen any zealous advocacy and insistence on supporting this amendment by the proposer. Although I would never use the word shamefully in my explanation, I will not use the word shamefully now, seeing that this cake is EUR 2 000 93 million, that you have divided this cake into 2 decimals over the years, into 2 decimals. The hat's off. But it will probably be, hopefully, the Legal and Legal Service - I hope they listen to me - before the law goes to the publication on the Official Journal, repairs and numbers will be rounded to at least integers. At about 200 million a year to talk about the precision of two decimals, yeah, wait what's already said, because we're going to have cows laughing at us. But I know that someone just multiplied it with some factor and that number got it, but a little bit of common sense too. And if, on the one hand, you realize that there are no criteria for how this money will now be distributed, on the other hand, you divide it into two decimals over the years. But okay, it happens to the best. Slovenians value their health immensely. It's immeasurable. We appreciate it so much that we place it on the highest scale of values. Nevertheless, we do not pay enough attention to health. For example, every fifth Slovenian declares that he has not been on any preventive inspection in the last three years. The amount invested or better not invested in Slovenian health care in the last few years, however, my predecessors have spoken and I thank them that I do not need to repeat. When I look at health as the highest value through the optics of our political agenda, where we place the dignity of man as the highest value from which human rights have actually evolved, we really look at it through the dignity of man. Man’s dignity is attributed to value and right to respect because he is human. People are born free and equal. I don't know why some people find this marriage a surprise. We have been thinking about this since we designed and signed a coalition treaty. And in Chapter III. Health is practically indicated in the first two points. Even before we have been working on the budget or amending the budget for 2021 and the budget for 2022, allow me to give some numbers. The budget, our budget for 2021 for the Ministry of Health, amounted to about EUR 582 million. The realisation in 2019 was a good EUR 183 million. The index is 288 or the difference between the implementation of 2019 and the budget adopted by us for 2021 is 345 million – index 288. Next, budget 2022 – 294 million, compared to the 2019 implementation index 160, the difference of EUR 110 million. It's virile. Of course, we must be responsible for asking where to take it. Where to take it so we can give. It's our assessment, and the answer is in it. If we can make a good business environment, then we are not afraid of good, high revenues in the state budget. Today, tax revenues are higher than before the crisis, i.e. the health crisis. If we know that we will leave it simple for the economy to work so that we do not burden them with bureaucratic obstacles, with taxes, as well as with people, citizens, so that we do not strain them and choke them with taxes, then I am sure that we will also find these sources. Of course, this law - perfectly normal for a decade - is an undertaking for this government and for all subsequent governments. How do we now exactly divide between, I don't know, for example, because there was a speech between UKC Ljubljana, which last year marked its 45th birthday, in some way we can call it a factory health, and how do we now divide it into what ratio to divide 763 million between UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor? Of course, I will try to make this division fair. Fair enough. Eastern Slovenia also needs a health factory and has excellent people, as well as UKC Ljubljana. I don't think there's any point in detailing the source, I'm not going to go into detail, I just remember that we also have the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. [[…]] It was obviously good if the European Commission accepted it and because it is an important focus on human health concerns. Everyone can read this for themselves. This is not the subject of this agenda item. It is true, however, that in New Slovenia, we are not alone, I can also list a number of professional associations, for years and years we have been alerting the lack of investment in health care, precisely because we must respect human dignity. Data show us that poor investment in the Slovenian health system has actually resulted in catastrophic, worrying data. If in 2021 we had two-thirds of the equipment write-off in Slovenian hospitals, about 67%, then this share is around 85% this year. Once again, about 85% of equipment in health institutions has been cancelled, but we know how fast technology is developing, modern medicine. Of course, modern treatment is expensive, but, of course, human health is worth the most and we must not convert every euro here, but we will give it to health or not. In fact, if there is a legitimate investment, we must also make it happen. Therefore, in New Slovenia and, of course, in the coalition as a whole, we welcome this system regime, which provides additional financial resources for investments into the health system, since, as has been said, the latter have been largely underfunded and overlooked in the past by the regulator. As we have heard on the Committee, by the Secretary of State, we have on average invested EUR 38 million on an annual basis since 2009. Now this is an average of about 200 million euros. And why support this amendment. Also, again through the optics of our political agenda, our views, through the principle of subsidiarity. People also live in border regions, villages, so on. We all know that the primary level of health is the responsibility of the municipality, and we all know that in the last few years, municipalities have been financially exhausted or lacked the resources for their operation, to build, again, kindergartens, primary schools and health homes, for example, because we are at this point. And this is, in a way, this law or rather, this amendment, which raises funds for the primary level, specifically for the health care homes established by the municipalities, is, in some ways, the financial burden of the municipalities or the more I want to stress, this is our relationship with the very people in our country. As for New Slovenia, I repeat, we will support this amendment, but the debate on the amendment is now under way and we will be pleased to support the whole law in today's vote. In fact, it is a similar concept as it was, yes, including investing in kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. It is necessary to have a crust, and it is necessary to make a simple decision. The story doesn't go anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Cigler, to prepare Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Miha Kordish made it quite clear that in Levica we are absolutely aware of the very serious health, segment or subsystem of this society that provides us with life and health. And if there is no life and no health, there are very high costs. But the state in which this system is today certainly requires that its share of resources to exist and function significantly increases against the current state. And I'm sure the Law on Investing in Health Infrastructure, I'd say public health infrastructure, is an important segment here. But not as a pre-election candy that is promised, but then be saved by future coalitions and governments, but this law must be taken seriously and made concrete, enforceable. It should be followed by a clear financial picture. And just as when pensioners who have very low pensions in Slovenia, when they run out of pension money, and are financed up to the necessary amount through the budget, we need to make a budgetary, budgetary protector if we are serious about our words in favour of the public health system, including in the field of health. In short, the budget must be the one that, even from general taxes, when contributions are under-contributed in times of crisis, the budget must provide so much money that the necessary health system can be implemented as a treatment and that this law will have real financial foundations. That must be the first priority. And for the last time, I'm at the second board meeting, when we talked about it, it's not our first priority, it's money to kill, it's for weapons, 780 million, no. The first priority in this country to be represented by the National Assembly is the life and health of the people living in this country. And that's why we provide the funds. Look, if we've been talking about how strong over a hundred thousand people don't have a personal doctor, we don't have an abnormal discharge, we don't have a lot of space, you just can't get to a doctor today. Hello? Are you listening to me, people? It's not a small one, it's not a small problem with our health system. That's when you have to sit down and say it, and that's it. And I agree with Dr. Will who said, look when he wrote down an article that I quote all the time from work, he said: “The diagnosis is such, this condition, let’s set up a health course, the course of treatment.” And I'm sure it's the first thing that needs to be done to ensure health, to provide enough money. And in this sense, I would say what Miha said before me, a fellow member of my parliamentary group, Left will stand firmly in the coalition or the opposition and demand that these things, which are found to be in fact necessary, even though it is only possible on paper without more concrete analysis and analytical data, this matter must be taken seriously and carried out. Since 2017, I will quote Dr Velimir Bolet of the Institute of Economic Analysis from the Faculty of Law that he has found that the health system is chronically subsidised and that systemic changes are absolutely necessary, because this system simply does not have enough money to ensure that what is provided by the Constitution and by law to citizens and citizens in the field of health is done. It's basic, that one, health, treatment. And since there is little money, analyses around the world have been made, especially in the area of Greece, when public funds have also been reduced for the health sector, when health care has become very inaccessible, especially for vulnerable and poorer parts of the population, so that the excess of death begins to increase strongly. Health has deteriorated and if health declines, if diseases are more frequent and physically occurring, see these are costs. [[Incomprehensible]] And not least, the economy that Joseph Horvat in New Slovenia is so ringing the bell, which I agree with, but also the economy simply loses its workers and has to cover these high costs of treatment. These are the consequences, and these are the things that need to be addressed. And I agree that investment is extremely important, but as Dr. Night said, it must be in the first place of a healthcare professional. Here is a big cancer wound that we will be able to solve, any government, present or future, I think the present god in this area will be more god, but still he said exactly how many beds in different departments that provide health services are very important for the diseases currently present in Slovenia and has very many beds empty because there can be no treatment because there are no personnel, no nurses and doctors. Look, and this thing would say it's before you invest in health care. And in this sense, even in Levica, we talk all the time, and money has to be provided, but not by the fact that those of the poorest layers in this country, which are not so few, besides the pensioners, the poor, the employees, that I am not talking about young people at all, then every month we demand that they pay for supplementary health insurance, and we will not have a meeting about this today, but unfortunately not enough hearing to arrange this. This is particularly why I am saying this because, compared to the OECD and also the European Community, health-care funds have been falling for activity and investment since 2010, including the share of gross social product. It's our relationship to health, to the lives of people in this country, but those who can't afford it by themselves. Because part of public funds for health in Slovenia also falls. Look, and the fact is that we're always out of line in Levica, and I have to say that for the last time, the Secretary of State at the second meeting of the Health Committee that discussed this, he said, I don't know how many times, yes, it's the public sector. We stress that these are funds intended to strengthen the public sector, public space in the field of health and work, including in the field of education, special or protection institutions, long-term care related to the implementation by public operators. Since we warn and also say, see, the Long-Term Care Act, which is currently under consideration, Article 57 clearly states that the long-term care is also provided by private individuals. This is not at all wrong, but they should, in order to be able to carry out their activities, ensure conditions by their means. We provide funds for the public sector. And very much, Mr State Secretary, look at a few debaters from Members and Members of Parliament who said that this law is therefore problematic because there is no clear financial cover or analytical basis. Last time you pointed out which investments should be, as Joseph Horvat said up to two decimals, exactly how far it would go, but at the same time you said at the first reading that there was no analysis and assessment of needs, that one of the prescribed long-term strategies for this programme was not needed, as my colleague Kordiš said in particular. And there's no clear financial cover. See, what was said earlier, the main thing that will work our economic system, okay, that the production of goods and services will be great, that we will collect a lot of taxes, not that much revenue will be generated, that taxes will be reduced, then we will have enough money for the health system, in all respects, and for services and for investments. Otherwise, I don't know how much money we'll have if it's taxed if we collect less taxes. In fact, I think that they will need to be collected more or redistributed for this purpose. Not as I said from the means to not put in the means to kill, but for the health and life of people in this country. [[…]] And we must surely be aware, after this debate today, that the first priority that we need for public finances after this state is established and everyone agrees that it is catastrophic, is to ensure that we invest in or provide enough money in the health system to ensure that both the activity and the conditions for its implementation are at a level such as health needs in that country. [[…]] And the government that can't do that is operationally incompetent to me. Especially if he writes a very beautiful law, for which we see that he has neither analytic nor financial grounds. But, of course, I want to do my best. I don't mean it in a bad way. And once again, I would say, look, it's good that at least here we came together by coalition and opposition, to point out that we are aware of the importance and especially the primary part of our health care, this is health homes. While those in charge are the founders of local communities, the municipalities, but are responsible for ensuring the conditions for health care to run and function, it is the State and it is the Ministry. And I agree, Mr Secretary of State, with your statements, as you said, that, in fact, 80% of all health needs also provide the primary part of health care. [[Incomprehensible]] And also by its activity, if it has the conditions for it to function, it is also quite burdensome, adequately relieves the secondary and the tertiary. That is why I am fine, positive that funds to invest in the primary part of health care in this new reform would also be found in the law. I say, too, you absolutely can't resist such a law. However, the fact is that we demand that there be real financial grounds behind it, especially after I conclude with this, according to the figures that the man who knows the things because he runs the Committee on Finance has previously pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, prepare to be Mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u48	Thank you and a nice hello to you all. Today we are talking about the financial most difficult law of the health sector in the last few decades. And not just today, we've already run out of laps. And the apparent absence of a minister is totally unjustifiable. Someone who runs this facility didn't even show up when we're talking about two billion euros in ten years. Therefore, the issue of trust or credibility in creation, especially in the implementation of this law, is totally intermediate and justified. Why trust, I don't know, but let's just look at the last few months at the functioning of this ruling structure. In the field of investment in health care, close ten-day renewal of cod departments at UKC. I mean, we've all just forgotten that. Then a flashy ZVD renewal at the UKC. Then purchase or non-acquisition vaccines when necessary. Then targeted acquisition of quick tests that were less reliable than coin-throwing. The same results, or even worse, have been shown. Then, even today, unexplained purchase of protective and medical equipment, useless masks with rubber masks, dispensers are still in storage, additional equipment that would allow at least partial use of this apparatus in patient covid was purchased at the end of October. Setting up and breaking up a military hospital costs something. Was it simply because of pear effects or because of actual needs? And looking for trucks, and I don't know what else. And today we are talking about the synthesis of all of this together and the bill. How can we believe you? You're saying this law tells us where the funds are going, and we keep asking you where you're going. But not from some high-flying, I don't know, crown reconstruction funds, future economic growth, development of economic space, that's not going to happen in a year or two. And that's why we get to the paradox. When a coalition MP, therefore, who supports your government, says that he cannot confirm this law because it is unrealistic, it has no real basis, but the opposition Member, who is against the government, says he cannot vote against this law, because at least he has a message – and that is the only thing he has, a message. But we all agree on this message together. Do you need investment in health care? Blood, very necessary, too late. Unfortunately, this law is just a list of wishes and a huge anchor behind the door to all future governments. Because not to forget, today this government, we have heard that it gives to everyone, not just to health. He's giving the army, giving it to the police. Yeah, yeah, but he's got an unlimited bag. Neither the past government nor the future government will have this. As of today, the re-implementation of the fiscal rule, the limitation of deficits, is being discussed. A colleague who really knows his finances is here I give him, the whole parliament gives him a hat down, predicts seven billion euros in deficit. Seven thousand million euros, because seven billion sounds small. Seven thousand euro deficits. In a few years' time, we'll be paying 3 billion euros a year for interest, 3,000 million euros a year for interest. Why? It's the generosity. And you're going to say, because it went to people, because it didn't work out where, I don't know, banks, but I don't know what, NGOs, but it's starting to get a lot of stories for kindergarten. It's not working. There's something about reality that determines the fiscal environment that we come from, where we are and where we're going, but there are stories and desires, and what we're going to do with this money. Plus, there's something else to say. We are forgetting again; this suit, which now heads the country, has brought a constitutional indictment or constitutional assessment of the government's fiscal documents that planned the surplus. This was possible, but now that there are unlimited deficits, it is okay and everything is in line with the Constitution, laws, expectations and ultimately it is about people. You're saying that money goes into the public health system, you've made four explicit assurances, and I believe you. I believe you, that's not the problem. Do you know what the problem is? Who's going to make these investments, who's going to choose the contractors. What about those who play golf on Mauritius or those who run on the Adriatic in yachts? As investments will be carried out by private individuals - design, construction, installations and equipment. Again, we come to the first question – trust and credibility. That's why we tabled an amendment. Because, you know, there's something I really believe in because I come from a local environment. Investments by municipalities, even smaller ones, are not carried out roughly as they are at the national level. Every mayor damn sure turns every euro he has at his disposal, along with the municipal council, and every euro is known exactly where he went. Because it's not that big a deal, it's very hard to hide something. And now I am really going to express great gratitude, in my notes, to my opposition colleagues, for accepting such a voluntary and generous increase in the primary health level. Do you know how much the original item was, the original proposal was government? 50 million euros for 10 years at the primary health level. Then we listened to the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, one representative association that requested, give a little more, come on, we need this money bloody. We said, okay, we'll try. We've made a proposal for 200 million. You voted against and adopted your 150 last time on the committee, and today, voluntarily, yes, I am grateful to you, this is an increase of €50 million for the 2 billion you have planned and for which you do not know where you will take them from, but that is not important. It's an important story. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Simonovich, can you please scrutinize because you can't talk? And all the time, they're always the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u49	Please respect the speaker and do not disturb him in his speech. Here you go, Mr. Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u50	Thank you very much. It is difficult for him to reach you because very quietly and subtly these sounds are coming down on the right side of Parliament. I know, we've heard that today, it's hard to look at crowded hallways that are either way inappropriate, patients, poorly spent equipment, staff that can barely handle it, but you know what's even harder, and it's even harder to see doctors who get 30,000 Euros of coronary supplements, while nurses who got one coffee with milk. That's the hardest part. And here things need to be changed first, not under the conditions of work, but with respect for those doing this work, whether in medicine or in health care or in technical personnel. That's the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has a government representative, mag. Robert Chugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u52	Yes, thank you very much. Now, Mr Pavšič, I don't know if you've been anything in the UKC in the last period, because you mentioned, of course, that investment that was made really quickly. If there was no investment today, half of Covid's patients would be in UKC. So just a replica of this actually thinking about it. Now you know, we've been listening in health care for 30 years, there's no money, there's no money, where you'll get the money, and so on. If the money's not in health care and it's been gone for 30 years, that's why we have the system we have now. And I strongly hope that we can gather courage here sometime, and say, we'll get the money. I have already said that EUR 408 million is already available, so we need more than a billion and a half. And if the state of Slovenia is unable to give it at an annual level of 150 million for health care in the next 10 years, then I really don't know where this health care will go. You've accepted a lot of good things here, and I believe you're able to accept it, too, because health care can't watch us go back in infrastructure for another 30 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Pashovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u54	You know what, Mr. Secretary? I'd believe you, but it's two different things here. How much does Slovenia cost us as a country and as taxpayers of the health system per year? Four billion and a half. 100 million of them are available to the Ministry of Health, which is 4.6 million in non-Covidal times. And don't tell me that out of these 4.6 million euros, or 4.6 billion euros a year, there is no money for investment. I claim that the original sin is elsewhere. The original sin is only in these intertwined networks and an inefficient system that has been dragging for 30 years. That's the problem. It's not that there's no money. Money's never gonna be enough anyway. It's never gonna be enough. But with a little rationalization, you said yourself that the system has a lot more reserves. But all together, hang on to the state budget with such unrealistic expectations, but here you have not yet tried to answer with a single word about the financial coverage of this law. It is therefore unrealistic to say that this will save the budget. If we say, we're going to find the reserves in the system ourselves, find the biggest anomalies, cut 100% and more of the percentage margin, then maybe I'll believe you. But with everything I've previously counted, not personally, we're talking to you as a representative of this system, but unfortunately I can't. And that's why I can't confirm this marriage. I can't confirm it. Because then I would agree with you that this could be done. If it's a hat down, I'm gonna spill my ashes, I'm gonna get my knees round the UKC. But I won't. Believe me, I won't. Since it's impossible, there's no money, and that's what we're telling you. If I were, I'd be happy to give it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u56	Presidents, thank you very much, dear fellow Members, the distinguished Secretary of State with the team and all those who are following us, of course. Now I'm gonna get to the point. Now this second article, the opposition amendment. I have also estimated that this is some way of correcting values, which, of course, also refer to the primary level. I agree, of course, that the primary level is that foundation, that pillar of Slovenian health, which is somehow crucial to the health, health and functioning sector. We all have our first contact, of course, when we are sick, with this primary sector. As an interesting, no, I was now looking for a personal doctor, I don't know, for three months, then I found him at the health station Tezno, which is part of Maribor's health center. Look, that medical station, I've been a Mariborian for 47 years now, and now I have a doctor in the house who really needs more than reconstruction because it's actually in the editing house. That's where the locals call it the barracks. I agree, the primacy in this work is indeed, calls out, yells for renewal, and I also agree that more resources are needed for healthcare homes. Now, we on the Health Committee have adopted a 150 million-euro supplement, coalition MPs. Now you're proposing 200 million euros. We will see what the vote will show, but I say that, of course, this primate needs additional resources. Now, I am pleased that my colleagues mentioned, of course, both university clinical centres, both Ljubljana and Maribor, where 763 million are foreseen. Now we Styria Members hope, of course, that these funds will be appropriate, to say adequately allocated between the two, resources, given, of course, the real needs that patients and doctors need there. Now, as far as the Secretary of State has talked about priorities, they have their own priorities, as they have, of course, on the other hand, leadership, and now I will specifically refer to our university clinical centre, including their own priorities. Now, I would like to say intros on the university clinical centre, now I really like this slogan, which was last time, I think I caught in the media, pointed out by the new director, Mr. Ninjac, that now UKC Maribor will be trying to make patients a nicer and more accessible hospital, I think he has told everything in this wing. I have to tell you that my locals are really breathing with this institution, and I think it's also going backwards, that the hospital is working for patients, as well as healthy people are working for the university clinical center. Purely on a plastic case, through blood supply. My father, Bojan Kaloh, has already donated blood 135 times in UKC Maribor, is a knight of blood supply, so here I am here to stress once again, breathing with this institution. Now, I hope that at the Ministry of Health in the sector of investment and public procurement, that you have someone here, I would say a correlation, is said with UKC management, that these priorities will somehow meet. That seems crucial to me. Now, look, a list of these high-priority investments. Mr. Kordish mentioned earlier, I think it's an infectious clinic. This will not be possible on the basis of this law, since the very capable minister of this government, Mr Zvonko Černač, the cohesion minister is already in the context of the EU response funds already the first investment has actually been approved at the amount of three million 600 000, this is about moving the lung back to the UKC home unit, this has been actually approved and also up to the care hospital will also be made of EU funds, as well as of course the construction of the EU infectious clinic. What are investment projects? Let me give you a little insight, because they're not that few, but they're all very important to our establishment. Since the expansion of the Oncology Department, it is clear that the upgrading of this section is essential, the Department of Cardiosurgery Intensive Therapy, the Department of Pedopsychiatry, the Department of Pathology, the second and third stages of the construction of the emergency centre, the expansion of intensive therapy within the clinic for internal medicine, the renewal of the surgical block, the central kitchen, which is also not to say in collapse, who was, I have already seen this kitchen as a Member, also God help, orthopaedic clinic and some of these investments, which are absolutely necessary on this priority list to address exactly this law at a total of more than two billion euros. Now, of course, as a Member, I will clearly support this law, because our UKC Maribor is actually one of these key regional centres with excellent specialist doctors, so that, of course, we as Members, not just Styrians, I also generally believe that we will support this law today. As for the current situation with the covid-19 epidemic, I will also somehow seize this opportunity to appeal to all those who have not yet been vaccinated, do so, protect yourself and your loved ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The first one has the word, Mr. Boris Doblekar, to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members. It is, of course, very important to us, at least for me a very important law, a law that will somehow systematically provide funds for investments in Slovenian health care, in a way similar to that of the Slovenian army, and I believe that this law will also be passed, because in all these years, decades, when we are practically in Slovenian health, as far as investment is concerned, nothing is significant, so this time it is a big tectonic shift that I hear from the debates that many very, very afraid of. I don't know why you're so afraid, why you're afraid that some more resources have been invested in Slovenian public health, which is absolutely necessary. I don't see any fear here. Now, if I've listened to a couple of debaters, especially with the opposition types how difficult it is in health care, how bad the situation is, how health care is humanely fed and so on, then you mix with those imaginary affairs that you have somehow helped with certain media to process and then, of course, when they were finely mixed these things that are not holding at all, involved back into the debates, into the National Assembly, thereby taking time, precious time, both to the Government and to us in Parliament, so that we can actually deal more intensively and effectively with health problems, especially now that we are living in difficult times, especially in terms of health, mainly because of Covid-19. And really, I'm a little worried or sick, but when I hear from some of the parties that you've just been a government party, even before the year and a half, and you haven't actually done anything for health care, and we're listening now, because what's not done, what's needed to be done, then even an amendment is prepared, given that the government has prepared a great law, a great law that will provide funds, so, two billion in ten years. We have also heard the distinguished Secretary of State, who some of you here are talking to him, as if you were not aware of what kind of experts you are, but all-knowing. I think that people like the Secretary of State, who, from the Soč University Rehabilitation Institute, took such a role that he should be respected and helped, and that he also needs to be trusted and I think that this is how we talk here, and we argue about what is going to happen, what is not, why is not, because you don't know anything, and you don't know anything, but I mean, this is a disaster. [[…]] [[…]] Not that I would be his lawyer, but I'm a Member, like everyone else, and I can't say that I'm some top health expert, like him, and he also said that 408 million euros is practically already available, but like sitting on our ears, like we're doing the same shit; because this money is not going to be done anywhere, because it's not going to be done. All of a sudden, one and the same. Now, you probably have in each of your local environments, as well as well as well-known problems in both university clinical centres, and hospitals, you know your cases, you know, that the founders of the community health homes, that the municipalities have to take care of the infrastructure, the building, the infirmary, the equipment and simply do not want this necessary money to be provided, prepare and that it goes against the municipalities, that these health homes will be in, that is, at the primary level, for which the initial amendment of the coalition parties was also introduced, and the funds of 150 million euros have been provided, we now have on the table even an amendment of 200 million euros, which would somehow be sufficient, according to the needs, expressed needs, on the ground and, I can say from my knowledge and behaviour, what the health home looks like for 21,22,000 people, in the Lithia and Šmartno meeting, where the needs are constantly faced with various problems need to help. Let's help. Let us provide these funds and, above all, when citizens and citizens earn rapid intervention, i.e. in emergency medical interventions, things are not as they might be, and a project is prepared for a two-million-euro precipitation project with a night outpatient, with the planned helicopter landing that is urgently needed. Today's response time is still absolutely necessary. And if you don't see the need to help here, then I really don't know. Or we wait a little while longer, and we will continue to spend money on various studies and various NGOs, of which there is virtually nothing, but I don't know what it is to fill the bank holes that your tycoons have made. Are we gonna spend our money on this? I think it is high time, at last, that we finally sever the species, that both Members and Members go against the proposed government proposal and that this law be confirmed together with the amendment. But not to listen here first, to make an amendment for more funding for primary health care, but then to listen to how we would not even support the law on financing. Which I find extremely unrealistic, and I think we should sometimes listen a little bit and look in the mirror so that we may hear ourselves speak at all. Let me put it this way: There are always some mouthfuls of public health. Yeah, we're talking about public health. The concessionaires or private individuals themselves invest their money for infrastructure, devices, instruments and so on. And, of course, it is necessary to ensure that the infrastructure is regulated, that there is sufficient personnel. We keep listening, there's no nurses, they're leaving, there's no that, there's no that, there's no third. Now that things are moving, when things are ready again, yes they wouldn't, but they wouldn't. You don't know what you want anymore. That is why I think it is right for us to take up these good things and finally confirm these good things for Slovenian health care. And I believe that we will also do so and that these funds, which will be provided for 10 years, will also come regularly. Even from taxes when you were talking about where we're going to get the money. Yes, it is necessary to create conditions for the economy to operate, to collect taxes and to fill the budget. And, of course, once again, it is necessary for all those who pay taxes, either from the natural persons of citizens and citizens, businesses, economists, in short, to be grateful to all and to help them to get as much taxes as possible and to be able to invest as easily in health care as possible. Even this is clear to everyone, and here I think that all politics is completely in vain. So that I really hope that some of you who doubt this proposed law will be courageous and finally acknowledge that this government is excellent, that it is doing well, that the law has been well prepared, like many others, and that we are all going together against this proposal and that we confirm it. And I believe that it will be better for all of us, especially for all of us citizens and citizens, who finally deserve better health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, get Jože Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Just because we are in the last quarter of our term doesn't mean we can give up. Introductory. No government gives. There's no such government in the world to give anything. Someone doesn't sell, I don't know, a clinic in Australia or their car or anything. Governments are proposing redistribution of money, proposing or increasing or reducing funds, and this is being debated in Parliament, whether or not by parliaments, proposing budgetary amendments. By the way, government representatives do not replicate with Members and Members. Replicas are intended for debate between Members and Members following the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Government, already referred to in Article 110 of the Constitution, shall answer to the National Assembly. The time of managed budgets is more or less. The time we live now, however, is that the government, ours or others, owe themselves in our name. This is happening in our country without any serious debate, both in Parliament and in the professional public, as well as debates on the prudence or recklessness of this debt. Now, this government is very boastful because it's comparing two quarters. One quarter when we were in the “lockdown” this year was quartering how GDP went madly up, but at the same time forget that the country's debt at that time went even higher, which probably raises questions as to how well these debts were considered. Now, of course we need funds for the infrastructure of Slovenian public health. That's not a dilemma. But the problem is how we did it or did it. We've had some experience with emergency centers. At that time some of the money was from Europe, and some of the money, I will say, people are giving through the tax and related burdens of domestic origin. And what happened at the time — something came up — and in the middle of half, and in the third quarter, there was a quick fight about where else the center was not, which I am already asking the current minister, who somehow tells me that there are no actual protocols, that there is no staff and so on. And now we have some condition we have. Nor does it claim that nothing has been built in the thirties. But one of my flashes was, but you know, I was lucky to be in the past mandate or privilege or whatever, essentially the responsibility in the mandate of the Sharchev Government was presided over by a demanding Health Committee and I visited several hospitals. Of course both the UKCs. I'm sorry I'm not more. Somehow they didn't just take me there when something new opened up and so on. After some hospitals, I was also taken for example, and I will not mention any specific hospitals where they had an internal pharmacy in such a state that they would have known for three years that they should have closed it. And I've actually begun to think that in the way we finance it, we are irresponsibly spending money. One is if my colleague Vojko Starić, who listens to me and I bought something in the countryside, an old byte that would be a challenge to us, would begin to renew it. Secondly, if they do so in the infrastructure of Slovenian public health. But, you know, we have, half of this is for "beak kick in" or to divert attention from someone. We should, but you know, we have the background of a collection of what is necessary, and what is absolutely necessary for me to give Members the budget amendments and they have always been rejected because Duck suggested them because they were proposed by the new Left. By 2014, 2015, 2016, if you went to watch, this half-emergency would already be in construction or built, and you would probably still have problems with personnel, with education, with the acquisition of equipment, with the thought of amortisation. You don't have to write the novel for analysis – I agree with my colleague Doblekar. But after all, we should also ask ourselves what the network is like, especially the second, what we're going to have. Just as this law is written, it sounds a little like that — if I do a little caricature; every hospital will remember what will happen. We have a problem that we do not have a place for infrastructure development of public health policy in Slovenia. We have a problem with having an overly weak ministry in this area, and we have a problem with the fact that the health department has somehow cooled down. We should really talk if you want to talk about urbanism. I was talking about Maribor where the Maribor UKC is going to spread. Half the Duck has some ideas, and I'm not running for mayor, unlike Kaloh. From whom, however, is our mayor, there would be “park and drive” there because some of the most logical expansions of the hospital would be. Anyone with a small brain, who walks a little around the world, knows that it would probably make sense if a quiet voice about the NEK2 talks about talking about the new Ljubljana UKC. Because this one, I'm sorry, it's a waste of money for me. [[Incomprehensible]] Not having a regional hospital, not a Ljubljana hospital, not a mountain hospital. You know, at one point, you have to cut and somehow think about it. The same way we're going to have to cut down the story at one point. But it won't be so easy to find 5,000 jobs, as Gardener talks on the radio today. And this is where I see the problem of this marriage scribbling. For people who listen, this is not a law that has at least one 30, 40 articles, which would be at least a little more serious about everything that colleagues, including their colleague, have warned about. But, you know, if we're going to watch the story of the dirty cuckold, the last time I was wrong for a long time, I said, "Premurski," and my fellow sophomore from Prlecia fixed me. When the UKC were working at the time, the team chose to go around the world and see if she had studied literature and so on. Like it was written, I'm afraid it's the wet dreams of the building mafia, if I say a little ugly. I'm sorry. If we want to talk about this seriously, we should really talk about what is so "out" that we cannot go there for the 21st century because I have said many times, the beautiful monumental protected, what is already Fabiani's building from the early 20s within UKC Ljubljana, it is for the museum of medical development, not for the gastro. Some Maribor stories or some other hospital that I don't even talk about. And, of course, Members and Members of Parliament, we are often too fond of the Patriots, in fact in the medium, long-term, to our detriment to ourselves, to our regions, even though we may be elected to the next elections for this reason. We've been throwing so much money into these highways, and we're going to be doing a third axis this way. If I say, let's talk about what will happen in Celje then we will all go from Slovenia to Celje and what will happen in Slovenj Gradec or elsewhere. Yeah, accessibility is very important. There's also a medical emergency. I know people who wanted to take it seriously, but they often had doors closed to the Ministry, but you know. Because we're gonna build this, then it's gonna happen to us, huh? We're going to have an orthopaedic hospital again without one of our orthopaedics, or we're going to have one hospital with three doctors in one department. One will escape to Austria because the other or the other will burn, the third will retire, and we will have a theatre. And we have just too many stories like that. Modern health, modern medicine, modern care for the 21st century goes into some perplexity time that do something together. And we'd need that thought, and then we'd just go and tell them where it's gonna be. And we do the opposite. That's about as much as I'd say, 'cause I'm not sure what, let's get some pennies, I'll buy Lamborghini. Okay, great, fine. I don't even know how to drive it. I don't know how to keep it. And because of the way it goes, I'm basically against this law. Because it is not a reflection, because in the way it is, it is essentially irresponsible of Members. Now, if I touch the primary level for a moment. Personally, I believe that what we provide in the territory of the whole of Slovenia, coming from the Constitution, education, health care, part of culture and so on, should be put off the shoulders of the municipalities. And essentially coming from the state, as we would like to say, whether to finance it at national level. Because because of such and different historical circumstances, the aggregates of municipalities, debts, even ever corruption, we have too many differences as to the availability of primary health care in our country. Not only personal physicians, including gynecology, including pediatrics, but also in dental care, there's a story that I don't speak at all. Now and comparatively looking at these certain walls that are necessary, here I agree with my colleague Kaloho, because that is really more of a barracks than anything else, and even in a similar environment, we need essentially a diagnostic empowerment of the primary level. You know, if you're going to a doctor or a pediatrician in nearby Austria, you're a good part of what you have to jump like a fool in our house, they do there on the spot. Not to say that we do not all live in Maribor and Ljubljana. And I could also personally change some of my father's, who was also a blood donor for a few shares in these actions for years, but from my birthplace, White Krajina, you're a bereaved man of 70 plus, what you're going to do, four times a year go to Ljubljana, twice a year, three times a year to Novo Mesto, and I've probably been asking questions to all three governments in place to make a diagnostic unit that you bring in and look at. Probably if it happened in cars that way, that one time, you'd go to the alpsup on the other end, the second, the third, the fifth, the sixth, you'd all go crazy. Fuck, health care can do that. But you know, these are some things. Then it's just this guy who's building up, but we still have so much bad experience here. Salmonella’s error, and a man like New Gorica died when something went wrong and so on. And this is some kind of seriousness, this is an urgent exercise in opinion, this is the basis of politics as a public use of mind and sectoral and beyond sectoral, which needs to be reconsidered, then you can only go into some such investment. What are we gonna do, we're gonna build first, and then we're gonna think? Holy Mother, we've been doing this for 30 years. This law is an ideal typical example of how politics should not work. And that's basically the problem. Of course, in view of the need to watch, as we said in the second indent, how from a European perspective, how to do it, how to do it differently and so on. I am very afraid that, as it is, but if accepted, it will probably be accepted, why I am against, I have said, we will have the same as Jankovic had there before in Ljubljana, and partly has a bunch of open building pits, and then we will cry and cry, and the teams in the ministries will change, and with a finger will appear to us Members. That's not serious. But, you know, I'd like an answer first, and I'd like to ask almost a question, and it's probably a crossover between some departmental ministries, where all the backs have to be torn, or what to do again, or maybe a change of destination, maybe even sell to someone, and we get pennies, that I don't know, we just build chopsticks, that someone will do Magno 3 there, and at the other end, we'll make a hospital. This is essentially an opinion of infrastructure development, which, in fact, I don't see in this story, but I didn't have any illusions to see. I just don't think he was in the previous two governments. Before that, I'm not gonna talk. I wasn't part of that story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has a government representative, mag. Robert Chugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Now, Dr. Trček, in fact, all you've mentioned is covered by this law. Now I don't know if you've managed to listen to my opening speech, but I would just like to say again what I said in this opening speech, because it's very important what you said. In Slovenia, analyses have shown that we need strong regional hospitals, whose size depends, of course, on the needs of the region. Some are accessibility, patient flow and, of course, patient flow. And we need a few smaller hospitals just for accessibility that can specialize. And for the last time on the board, I showed it very vividly. So I don't know why I'd be against the law, because you're actually stressing what I've also stressed and very clearly said on the Health Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr. Trcek's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u64	Yeah, although we're basically not supposed to replicate ourselves, because we haven't gone through this yet and we haven't come to an agreement on what kind of specialization will be, which, of course, will be difficult. You already know that story, when someone awkwardly three small hospitals wanted some hierarchy, two words changed, and we even had a hall noise, and I'm pretty much on that board. [[Incomprehensible]] But we need this political maturity and to come up with these answers and then build up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. I am pleased that you have found that this is also not a replica, but fine, I think the area that we are discussing today is so important that it also shows what to overlook. Jože Lenart has the word to prepare Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u66	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Dear government representatives, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Now, of course, we have on the table this proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for health investments in the years 2021-2031. Now I think the address is missing as a financier. We are constantly talking about doubting the financial resources that we do not see here, and we are certainly not questioning the need for investment in these two billion. If you ask me, I'd land immediately for three billion if we could talk like this. But without a specific business plan for investments, which would then include a chapter of resources that would provide this. Now we know what we're talking about. This law is even controversial to me from a legal point of view. Legally, if we hire one good office, we'd say it's going down. Because I am missing, I am missing a bill providing financial resources for health investments. The means to me are equipment, infrastructure, in principle also digitisation, also a good name, with this information support so we know that the cross and around this my opinion so well, that we should first of course have a strategic plan on internal reserves, in greater efficiency in health and all those internal reserves first spend, which you yourself agree to be, also know them because you come from practice and also with this whitening your head, and here is my basic conclusion which bothers me because everything revolves around this and now the title is already missing resources. However, if we look at the material and the resources I see only, look at the financial framework of Europe, this is what we call European resources to provide for investment. The term "sources" is used here, and the rest of the funds, and I don't have the money. Money is a resource. And once again, to make it clear to people that even the List of Marjan Sarcas is not against investment in health care, they are in damn need. And as I said, I would support three billion, of course if there was a finance minister here, and I would say the budget documents that will be at the table at the end of October provide this and we can see it and we can support it. We know what important documents these are, and this is where I find it rather unserious. And I believe you want all the investments that are listed here. I believe so. But the document is flawed, and as such, of course, as a financial one, I can't support it, because I know what's behind it, because it's kind of the time bomb that she's going to be told about, and I'm going to do something else. See, 80% of the write-off of equipment, infrastructure, little different then probably criteria for hospitals, that's the very sign that already from this health care can collapse, that it can eventually come to patient complaints when there are problems, what and how, we know these things. See, it is necessary to set up a network for all healthcare activities, i.e. by all types of disease. And that's what you did on the board. This means a lot to me, it was nice to see where areas in Slovenia where hospitals do not have certain activities covered, that then patients have to go far away to waste time and so on. It's a bunch of problems. And of course they immediately appear to me here in these white leaves and in these presentations they gave. Today, we are running short of staff for this network we have, let alone if we were able to build a national network everywhere. Where are your shots? Although you also have a busy education of some things, but in education, we know, for a doctor you have to plan for him to come, then you use him for a medium frame, of course, for 5 years. Now, see, otherwise much of the solutions I see in this better organization, internal reserves, in the network itself that we could build and, of course, even waiting types could reduce, the information support itself, digitisation, but not the kind that it is today. Yesterday we heard very well at 24 hours of Dr. Breclja, how clearly he said what was going on in our institutions. Systems that, in fact, people, doctors and those working with these information systems are practically disheartening because these providers do not give them this option. There's probably a lot more going on around here. And I also miss activities in the first place where it doesn't take so much money to even save, not hundreds of millions to invest. I will now draw attention to these remedial measures as one such practice of the UKC Court of Auditors in 2015, which has found with good purpose what hospitals must do, UKC and all other hospitals in order to achieve greater efficiency where there is no need for much work. And now I ask again, I have not received this answer yet, how is it possible for the Ministry to launch these activities, which are of course good, and then all of a sudden it stops. I wonder how much ten million has been invested in that information system to put this thing in place, but it's not. I don't care what government she was in. Now, Mrs Forte, the Secretary of State, has already been somehow responsible to me in this National Assembly, that she is aware of this and that she is practically in pain for it. Now, you say, you set the criteria, you have a strategy. In a sense, I'd say yes, after such cuts. But you don't have a common strategy. This has already led me to do so because we have come with this amendment to increase primary health care and you know very well that if primary health care is well placed to relieve the activity in the secondary and tertiary areas. I should have listened to you here. You could have said more. And of course you had 50 million in this strategy, and the last minute you come up with three times the increase, 150 million. And here it tells me you don't have the right strategy. How can we do that? I don't know. Where you're going to change the strategy now, but you didn't have it before. The strategy takes place in this area for six months, a year or more, every government, and then some give up and I don't know what else. Not to mention information systems that are fragmented and ineffective and practical, sometimes more personnel are needed than at the end of the impact. And once again, I'm going to say a little picro that in a few months we don't know how to count some equipment - fans. Now once again, these open questions that point to a cruel reality. Financial coverage, I don't see it in this marriage. Not because we're talking about resources, not resources. Of course, this is such an increase in the size of what we really need, this investment, which is what we damn well need this investment, which this law provides for 2 billion in ten years. Encouraged on paper, and in practice we will only see at the end of October when the finance minister places all the budget documents on the table. Now, the budget, see, in the Republic of Slovenia for the first time in the history of Slovenia has exceeded this balance, of course also with the necessary surplus under the fiscal rule in 2019. Now we know what happened to us. What a deficit in these two years we have achieved, 2020, 2021 and also for next year. How debt increases, how cruel this reality is. And now we come to many areas in the military, in long-term care, the biggest issue now here in investment. I can't imagine how we can do this with this budget. I'll tell you later. The way the government accepts this through the law of investment in the military, health care and long-term care, including education, is simply an account without the innkeeper, if I finish it again. See, now we are asking you all the time how the government will provide these financial resources, but if we know that in Slovenia we create only EUR 2 000 per capita or less than 8%, it depends on how this GDP grows. In Germany and Austria, once again, 4 000 euros, or 10%, or even 11% of GDP. And, of course, it does, because GDP itself is basically so much higher. Now, these are our questions, which, of course, we are also reminding some of the coalition Members themselves, because today, see, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance himself. Of course he couldn't go through his profession and he had to tell you that this thing just didn't work out that way. Or if you show us clearly where these sources are, where you'll take them. And of course these Members are also aware of the problem, but I have also seen in the newspapers that your coalition party NSI has already pointed out that in the next government it will be very bad. Today, however, we are accepting the growing need for investment, which of course they are. On the other hand, we are even lowering taxes, and here I do not understand my colleague, Joseph Horvath, when he spoke about how to relieve the economy first and, on the other hand, he says and how to get more of these taxes so that we can do all of this. I mean, it doesn't work together. Someone who speaks so well in mind and in this way, it's a little bit unserious. Once again, the Minister of Finance is not here. I've already forgotten what it looks like. How many months we haven't seen him here. However, such laws are taking place with such needs that we have not seen in the history of Slovenia. And only when they're on the table, once again, budget documents 2022, 2023, will I be able to decide whether or not to support such matters. I can't say otherwise. And if people don't understand me, then I can't help it. As a Member, I must be as serious and budgetary documents as I should respect the whole, and all that ZIPRS, the Legal and Legislative Service, has warned me through ZIPRS and other things, is clear to me. Now I'm asking if it's that we're going to make so much more revenue from the economy that we're going to reach 3,000 euros per capita, then I'm going to sign, thank God. But I think that's impossible. It won't grow like that. It is only now that we arrive at about the same level as 2019. We do know, however, that public finances are not currently going to provide an increase in pensions, in the area of municipalities. This is also legally guaranteed that social transfers and everything else should be increased. But I don't see it for investments. But as a financier, I point out that this is not in this law. Look, what we have heard in this Chamber already around these financial resources, but what I have already pointed out on the committee is that someone here has stated that we will provide the funds, but we will take it away from NGOs. I'm sorry, that's true, I mean, if someone is so unserious that they can say it out loud, but I'll say it, but then we'll take firefighters, athletes, mountaineers, pensioners, disabled people, culturers and many other charities or societies that work in these areas. That's really a question, and you don't have to answer that, because I know it's impossible. Or perhaps even here you will cut, because even in this year's society, NGOs have already received less in this last year, this is also evident in the field. Look, once again, how am I going to ask again how we're going to secure these financial resources? What's the projection? What will the Minister of Finance and the Government do when it comes to presenting all the resources, what will he present? Where are you going to cut it? Today we know that with the growth of the economy, even if you still have a desire, the government, as such, the finance minister and others, to lower taxes, then we need to talk seriously, well, and I would really like to see a little more serious about these questions, many when we ask everyone here to answer more specifically. [[…]] I'm gonna end up here so I don't repeat myself. And you've also heard three or five times these things that I've already warned about, but it will probably be necessary more than once, and even when the budget documents are on the table, we'll have a clear discussion on this. I understand, however, that once again, as a ministry, the Secretary of State, you want these investments to be made, but you must also press on those responsible in the government, on the Finance Minister to say clearly, and you must go along and make sure that this is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has Janja Sluga, ready to be prepared by Jura Ferjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u68	Yes, thank you very much. First of all, we need to be very frank about the credibility of the statement as to the purpose of this law. For it was said. The purpose of this law is to provide financial resources. Of course it doesn't. Financial resources will not be secured by this law. The financial resources shall be provided in the budget. And the budget is that document that is yet to be adopted and just prepared and which must also be confirmed, which will actually provide this money. That is why we do not really talk today about the fact that the government of Janez Janša gives two billion to invest in health care. Of course it doesn't. The government of Janez Janša will pay as much for investments in health as the budget for this year will be in the balance sheet and for next year. And if so, this number will be as envisaged here in this draft or bill, which is likely to be approved today. This is according to the coalition option 122 million in this year and 185 in the following year. Provided it's in the budget. Why? Because I don't want to talk about how Janez Janša's government put two billion into health care because that's not true. Because she hasn't given anything yet. Nor is it true that today the coalition Members point out that for 20 years nothing has been invested in health care. Of course it doesn't. I recall the beginning of the previous mandate when we panicked to close investments in emergency centres because it threatened to return European money. At that time, we really did have to close and open the emergency centres for a second, I can say, so that the investments were over and that everything with the money spent was just as it needed to be. It must be said that another very large investment was made in the meantime, an investment in a new building at Celje General Hospital. And because I know that I have actively participated in this new construction, it has been happening and that it is also continuing and I hope that it will continue and that it will continue to appeal to the representatives of the ministry in this place, because I know what the situation is in this new building, I know how much money there is to be provided and I am saying that even if we support this law today, this does not mean that we will actually come to this investment. Because I see what's going on in the field. Because I can see that things that have been done in half or in three quarters are still being done, we are still wondering whether all the documents will be made available for their completion, or whether any money will be available for their completion. My colleague Brickler and I went to look at the investment, and they presented it to us in detail, and we both know how much further it is to get there, that the success actually comes to an end, that it is realized, that it is equipped, and that it is available to people, to patients who really need it. And also the bill that we have today on the table I take as something we have to do for people, for patients. And that is why I would like to point out that there is still a big step and a lot of work in between, when we can say yes, but this law was the first step towards securing this money first, and the second step to doing something about that money, because it doesn't mean anything yet. We are also talking today about how many meetings we have had and how many discussions we have had about the Cultural Euro Act. Today, when we ask the Ministry of Culture how far is law enforcement, how many projects have been made out of that law, how many cultural euros have been invested, there is no answer. One more time. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support this law, but I would like to point out that we will no longer be speaking in advance, we have provided two billion, we have invested two billion, but nothing has been done before, it is not. It has already been pointed out today how much more difficult it is to provide resources for this money, that in fact two billion for the next ten years means around 200 million a year, and suddenly we are in some slightly more real numbers that no longer sound so high-flying, but that 200 million a year still needs to be provided in the budget of the Ministry of Health. This means having them first, which means that they must also be properly distributed, of course not neglecting all other needs, and this also means that it will, of course, depend on each single minister. So although I'm sorry, I'd like to be able to adopt a law today that actually would provide ten years in advance, no matter what you might say. But it's not like that. It has already been said of course the frame, so it will not only invest in the walls, although this is more than necessary, if you go to look at the state of our building in Slovenia, you sometimes wonder how this is possible, but we talk about the frame all the time. Of course, we all know that we have to invest in the frame, we know how long it takes to educate doctors, specialists, not least nurses, but I hope that these numbers that are in here in this table under the Ministry of Education are really those that reflect the exact calculations and strategies that have been said to exist, that with this money, which is here not so much a resource in fact up to this frame, I hope we will arrive. I am also somewhat disturbed by this claim of some accurate calculations and strategies. By the way, we have 90 Members in this Chamber and there are no 90 Members of the Health Committee, so that 90 Members did not hear what the Secretary of State said to the Health Committee despite reading the report. And I'm sorry if it's hard for you to repeat some things, but I think it's necessary. So I'm talking about that the accuracy of the calculations and the strategy has been confirmed, and then, overnightly, the increased funding in the coalition amendment, and also now, apparently, the support for the opposition amendment, which has just followed the debate on the committee, where several stakeholders have been exposed to a lack of funding at the primary level. And this is what the opposition has now proposed further in its amendment. I support this amendment, of course. We also signed it. As a matter of fact, I'm not going to bother you in advance. I just want us to look into each other's eyes and say that today's adoption of this law means nothing, it doesn't mean anything. We don't know where we're gonna get this money, we don't know if we can get it. When we do, I'll be happy to confirm it, too, don't worry. But you'll write to these famous jumbo posters in the first place on the highway, how you guaranteed 2 billion for health care, but it'll be a lie [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u69	Sir, I'm sorry. [[…]] Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u70	It's okay. I know your colleagues are upset when they hear the truth. So once again, the resources are not secure, it is difficult to argue that investments are more than necessary. We will support this marriage, just as we have previously. And I really hope that we will then get all the following documents on the table, which will follow the goals of what is written here, and then after all the Calvary, which was also around the new construction at Celje General Hospital, I hope that these funds will then also reach their goals on the ground, reach people, reach patients, and reach employees who are also working under the conditions that we describe here every day, and that many of them for some 8 hours or 12 hours a worker can't really imagine.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has a government representative, mag. Robert Chugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Yes, because we are very well aware that the funds in the budget for this year 2021 and 2022 must already be in the budget. Of course, without these amendments, which you are likely to accept today. Now, Mrs Slug, that is why we are trying to enforce the law precisely because you are saying that there will be funds for certain hospitals. I've been in healthcare for several years now, and it's really hard to monitor the investments that are pulling and pulling because there are no funds, and they're stopping and stopping construction because there is no funding. And that's not right. The matter must be brought to an end. And that's exactly what the law allows us to do, so that we can always have planned what we're going to do in the next 10 years. And that we will not have DTS in Ljubljana, but perhaps another hospital that we have been building for years and years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Replica, Janja Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u74	Yeah, I just want to point out once again what I've actually said before that we're not going to get along the wrong way. I support all efforts to invest in health care, but it is necessary to be honest and say that this law does not guarantee these funds. They are guaranteed by further and other budgetary documents, which need to be further endorsed. [[Incomprehensible]] However, if there is a possibility that there will be more of these funds, this is welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u76	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear guests, honourable Members, and all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! Even in today's case, on the basis of today's debate on this law, which we are dealing with, which brings $2 billion to health care in the next ten years, we can well see that it is a matter of priority in politics. It's not about words, it's about actions, it's about results that are visible in practice. And the priorities of the current government, led by the Slovenian Democratic Party led by Janez Janša, are very clear. We spend money on people, the population, health care. While those who criticize today what this government is doing, money was spent on banks, elites, NGOs. In the ten years 2009-2019, more than €700 million was allocated to NGOs. This government also directs money to health care through this law. Respected and respected, this law does not only solve or respond to the situation of the covid-19 crisis, or the situation caused by this virus, but also responds to the longstanding problems of the Slovenian health system, i.e. the lack of space, equipment, and personnel. And this is the law we urgently need. Today, we have been able to hear many times during the debate what should be done, what is not right. And when you were, respected and respected, in power, you did nothing. You didn't do anything. When there was a moment when it was necessary to act, you were concerned about your responsibility. Even now that you are in opposition, you are unable to sign cooperation agreements, but you are already talking about how you will soon rule and how you will soon solve all problems. But this government is working and will continue to work. Now let me go, however, specifically what this law brings. Because I believe that we have all read this law, but I think that it is necessary to stress substantively for all who accompany this meeting. And today, we've heard where the money's going, and we don't know where the money's going. It's very clear where the money's going. The money goes to the Slovenian health system. 763 million go to UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor, 557 million are general and nursing hospitals, care homes. 214 million are special hospitals, 50 million are psychiatric hospitals, 26 million are maternity hospitals. And as was the power to understand from the debate, not 50, but 200 million euros will be a primary health activity. Here, of course, more than 30 million will also be earmarked for the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, as well as for the NIJZ and the Institute of Transfusion Medicine of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, 200 million or 250 million will be allocated to programmes that educate the staff, which will in the future care of those who need or need help. And this is a law that we can see on the one hand, but it has very broad support in this National Assembly, and I am sure that it will also be in the vote in a few hours. But I cannot go beyond that, my respects and respects, on the one hand you say we support the law, and in the same breath you say how this government does everything and everything is wrong. Somehow it doesn't work together. Let's decide what now, the government is doing well or the law isn't right. You support the law, but the government doesn't do well. The law will be very good in the future and so on, but when you are in power you will be able to implement it. Like I said, look, you threw a rifle into the corn, you weren't able to take responsibility, you can't even sign an agreement in the opposition. You don't have any contents. Your only content is the defamation of the current government, but not only the content, if this is the content, it is also your only common point. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me another intervention. A few ten minutes ago, we heard from a member of the Marjan Sarca List, a party that was the largest government party before the government, about how it went in the past or how the system somehow went under the Sharča government. In a way, he said, it's not a literal quote, but a member of the Marjan Sarca List said that the strategy is being prepared for six months, maybe a year, and then some give up or give up. And that's exactly how it was, respected and respected. When the crisis came, when the epidemic came, you gave up. You didn't take responsibility. You threw a rifle into the corn. But you know, with respect and respect, I think you're still looking for this rifle and you'll only find yours, because the current government is working and will continue to work. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say this. We're in a difficult situation. Regrettably, the Coronavirus infection is on the rise from day to day, so I will conclude my debate for a few seconds, however, in order to encourage respectable citizens and citizens of our country to take into account measures, preventive behaviour – distance, mask, disinfection, PCT condition – and, of course, the call for vaccination. Let's trust science, trust our doctors. Let us trust that with our share, with our responsible conduct and vaccination, we can contribute to curbing this epidemic, this crisis until the final victory over the virus and, of course, the return to normalisation. I am convinced that each one of us who acts or acts responsibly can be proud of ourselves over the years, decades, and decades later, that we have contributed our share. And I think vaccination is the right way, and I'm sure we can. Thank you very much and I am pleased that this law will be adopted today and that we will take an important step towards greater resilience of the health system and that those who need medical care will receive it as soon as possible or in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Let me begin immediately by saying that we are not opposed to the law that provides for investing in health care for 10 years of 2 billion good 2 billion to invest in the health system. However, we cannot go beyond making critical and clear comments on what is wrong with this law, as we have already put on the committee and in the first debate. This law is about because it will bring problems, however you want, to be in debt, creating some financial obligations for future governments that do not have a clear basis. Under our legal and system-wide funding regime, resources are regulated – when we are talking about the state budget – by the Law on Public Finance, which is then more detailed in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. We don't have that in budget 2021 or 2021. It follows from this arrangement that a direct user may assume obligations under contracts requiring payment in the coming years, provided that funds are already planned for this purpose. So something's wrong, I'm sure there'll be trouble. And these were our comments from the beginning and they are now. There will be problems and such a law, we will not object simply because health care needs to be invested. And when I hear from the parties, members of the coalition, how the opposition's parties did nothing, in the last 20 years, but when the share of investment in terms of GDP actually declines, that is, according to the social product, when they decrease, they had coalition parties for 10 years, and they led the government for half of the years, while the opposition 7 years. Now I don't understand who he is, and pointing his finger turns out to be completely inappropriate and inappropriate. That's another thing. It seems to me that when they so boast, once again for the public to make it clear. The fact that we're investing in health care is the result, thank God, I welcome this, is the result of a bump by Brussels. There they accepted and gave clear instructions for a recovery plan, for resistance and recovery. From the beginning, the first plan we sent there was minimal investment in health care, but it was only investment in a commune and roads. Then we fixed it. Thank God it came. And as the Secretary of State said, from this title, here's the source, over 400 million will come. And that should be done and done. But why not make a law that drinks water and is in line with the system? Because, as non-systemic as we approach things, this always brings up problems, even if we are talking about a period of 10 years. And what the Secretary of State wants is that you have clearly planned finances, that you can plan because an investment doesn't happen in one year. Before you get the frame, what, third, it's years, it's gone. Preparations, documents, construction, completion and so on are years and it's nice to have a clear framework on this matter where you can move. That's why I say I'm not a problem in substance, but if it's not in line with the system as we have it, it's going to cause problems. That's another thing. Everyone warned little, including Polnar and colleague Polnar, and Möderndorfer, Pavšč, to this ease of indebtedness. We've been completely disposing of public finances. Slovenian public debt is now breaking records, although indicators are better and budget revenues are higher than last year, our debt is higher. I mean, this, I've been, I've been leading my whole life, I've been a CEO, I've been a leader, and you can't afford a lot of money in the money economy because it's destroying you. Then you can. [[Incomprehensible]] We are, for example, indebtedness when we entered Europe when the unknown financial resources opened up, Slovenia as a whole Slovenia and the state and economy and financial institutions have committed themselves. Before that, 17 billion were in debt, and then we came up with 43 billion. And when the crisis came to us this decade, we did, it brought us stagnation. I'm afraid that too much, too easy indebtedness will come back to stagnation. We've already paid 700 million interest this year. We have reduced our debt in the previous government, but we have previously paid a billion dollars a year for interest. So, the money that went out in previous years as a result of uncontrolled indebtedness cost us, the two-year interest is for the entire investment in health, which we are talking about today. So, no, don't mess with it, and if it's in the opposition we stress, yes, the government works, but works, increases the debt. Above, above, above, and above all. So let us guard against this and we must work well with these finances, the public. If you are once in charge, others will tell you what you will do and what you will not do. And we must fight these dangers as a country like Slovenia, as sovereignty, so we must not fall under foreign influence and others will dictate again what we must sell, what we must do, what we must not do, and so on. Let us remain independent, so these concerns that have been expressed today regarding this increase in debt, as the fiscal world now warns. We have already achieved this in eight months' debt, projected to be negative. 2.4 billion. These are extremely serious things, and the position must understand that if the opposition does not see it, if the opposition warns itself, then it is accused that we are unrealistic, that we do not want to do anything, and that the government is working, yes, making a hole, an ever-increasing hole, I am afraid. [[Incomprehensible]] In such a way, too, we need to look at it. But I'm saying it again. We in the SAB will not oppose the law because, despite our strong awareness that this is an area that is very important for a country and we have neglected and underestimated people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Today we have before us the Law on Investments in Slovenian Health, which devotes two billion to Slovenian health care. I am extremely happy because it is all over Slovenia, it is all levels, both a secondary tertiary level and a primary level, and I am particularly happy because Ljubljana will also get a share of this, we hope of course a nursing home or hospital that does not have Ljubljana. All those of us who ever had a relative in the hospital who was so hurt that he could not be in the hospital were put in Séžana. You had to go to Séžana, far away, I could have gone, my father was hard. And I would like to be able to be close to those we love and who are leaving us and, among other things, this will now be possible. I am truly grateful to this government for all those who are still waiting or waiting for us in the future. So two billion are guaranteed by law. There's two of them. We could put together projects and draw hospitals, health homes, arrange spatial plans and do this for about ten years, put together financial plans, and there would be nothing for ten years. You all know how long-term procedures are. However, if and of course this would be necessary to place these projects in development programmes, in the Slovenian budget and, of course, also adopt the Law on the implementation of the budget. The way is now turned around, first of all it is assured that this will happen. Because the first way doesn't guarantee it. It could be, but it might not be, but certainly very long. The law now allows, gives the framework and each subsequent government will have to comply with this law, adjust the budget and adapt the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. And that's the advantage of this marriage, so we're doing it now. Now, that's certainly not the only thing this government has done. Remember, too, that it has allowed for an increase in admission to medical school, we also need well-educated health workers, both nurses and doctors. The thoughts we have heard here somehow do not drink water, they are not logical, we have heard from the Left that they will support the law of the government, which they do not believe, because they believe in the law and they will support it, as proposed by the government, which they do not believe. So I really don't see anything but a little bit of a nagging, but a few logical contradictions. It also makes no sense to me that LMŠ says, of course, that money will not be and this is a meaningless law, but that they would have 100 million more. So what's nothing like what? I don't know what to think about this logic, that I won't be very insulting. These are more political flowers. Now we've also heard that the money is not provided. Of course it's not guaranteed. Who knows if the next year is going to be the way it is? Nothing's certain, except we're gonna die. And I hope that we will not be too early, because we will not have medical facilities and, therefore, buildings in which we can organise health care. I believe that GDP will continue to grow, of course. Despite Covid, this government has achieved growth in gross domestic production, and the lowest employment is following the 2009 crisis, the financial crisis. So we can believe that this will be realized. They are obviously not justified on the part of those who today received a slap from the European Court of Human Rights for expropriating investors when they were patching up a bank hole with the Prime Minister, Mrs Bratusek. So let's stay, so let's stay optimistic. I believe we all know that Slovenia needs this law, but it also needs a government that can enforce it. And the governments led by the Slovenian Democratic Party did not rule as my predecessor said. They ruled for only a few years, that is from 2004 to 2008, from 2012, 2013 and now for a half-second year. So this is the sum of the governments led by the Slovenian Democratic Party. And that is why I believe that whenever the Slovenian Democratic Party led the government, it took the country to a better level, even though it was very difficult at a time, as it is now difficult. So Slovenia needs this law. I believe that we will all support him, such an amendment that adds money to this sum that is foreseen. And I believe that the next government led by the Slovenian Democratic Party will also implement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Replica, Miha Kordish, please. [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, Miha Kordish, he probably had a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u82	I was directly challenged by the fact that Mrs SDS characterised our intervention in today's debate as bridging and logical opposition by the Left. Let me explain this because she obviously did not understand my previous debate. So the same law is made extremely lame, as is practically everything that comes under the hands of the government of Janez Janša. Among other things, there is no analysis and assessment of needs that could serve as a basis for the meaningful structure of investments in the health system over the next 10 years. And it is clear that the government of Janez Janša does not take this law seriously; it merely wants to intercede with him before the next national elections. But you know what? This basic purpose, which is enshrined in the law and which is not taken seriously by the government itself for its own law, is adopted and taken literally in Levica, so that in the next 10 years 2 billion euros are spent on investments in public health infrastructure. It's so simple. It is true, however, that the next government will have to correct this law, which I have also consistently pointed out in my deliberations. With the support of this law, however, we would like to commit to health care and investment in public health as political priorities a political environment which we hope will replace the Government of Janez Janša in the next elections, not that we are already hearing about savings. If we as a politician decide that investing in hospitals is a priority, then money will also be found in the state budget. After all, we can always tax the rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Now, if the amendment is adopted, it'll be a good 2 billion, not a bad 2. The word is Marjan Pojbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr Vice President. So it is simply a waste of time to waste words on this final debate or on the replica of Mr Kordiš. You can see that the extreme party, the extreme Left talking nonsense, is talking about nothing that doesn't exist. He wants to bring the matter to some place in the past that has nothing to do with what we're talking about today. Now, let's go first. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today at least what I would expect from the beginning and even now that all those who are sitting in the National Assembly also because of problems will not now talk about the party, about the Levica, about any individual, about the problem of the health system, I would now expect to conclude this debate today in an hour. Why? Because, according to my personal assessment, everyone, regardless of who comes from any party, is aware that intervention with financial resources in investments and in people is crucial. We're just ahead of facts, facing a problem we just can't close our eyes to. And it's amazing that I'm listening to this debate. And now we have a government that has decided to really cut through the past, and I'm going to tell a story, no matter who's been anywhere, and I'm going to tell a bobbean. And with this law, this government, this coalition is doing exactly that – it will help and help patients, health personnel and all that it takes to make the health system function normally, and it will ensure what they expect and we are waiting for, whether we are such or potential patients or not. And our primary task of every policy, every individual sitting here in Parliament, must be clear. We are here to help find solutions and to find the basis for those who work, doctors, nurses and so on, to provide appropriate, quality, adequate infrastructure so that they can carry out within their system their primary task, for which they are professionalised. And for 25 years, my dear colleagues and colleagues, we have pushed this matter aside. There was no hero in this national assembly, nor in the national assembly, but in the executive branch of power that would have made the decision that that government had taken. And this decision is for the people. From people to people. And I ask you kindly not to politicize today, we are working in the interest of our patients and doctors who are asking us, nurses who are asking us, create conditions for us to carry out our activities in accordance with all the rules that they are, and that we can ensure that they will not have 2, 3, 4, 5 years of waiting. And we are here today saying that it is now important how we guarantee this money. We have to secure it. It's not a question of how. It's not a question. If we can assure you, Alenka Bratušek, at the time when the financial story was exposed, for banks that have nothing to do with it because individuals have stolen it, look, then I can't believe it, I just can't believe it. And as much discussion as I'm hearing here today, it's really not appropriate for the National Assembly in the situation we're in. And those who come from the periphery at all, look at the situation, how difficult it is to get a family doctor, what conditions they have. Not to speak and now I will also focus a little more on the Maribor Clinical Center, Maribor University Clinical Center. When the government visited Maribor in a clinical centre, the University Clinical Centre Maribor, I was also present as a member of that broader environment at this meeting with the Minister. And all I heard was what the Director General of the Prof. Doc Clinical Center was there. Dr. Anton Black introduced to the minister, because I'm not from this system, it's medical, I couldn't believe it. [[Incomprehensible]] What a lack, amazing, simple and we here with some ease discuss each in our own way. In the end, we don't even know the point. And when this has been presented, I must say that and I must greatly commend Minister Poklukar, who has shown the breadth and the key power to see the whole of Slovenia. He can't see just one piece or Pacelotove Slovenia. And with this law, my dear colleagues and colleagues, let us not forget a single piece. It is said, not for infrastructure for the whole of Slovenia, in every area where this is absolutely necessary and investing in people. [[…]] These are the two key moments we need to pursue. So it means doctors, nurses and everything. And on the other hand, as I was talking about infrastructure. And if any of you sitting here can contradict me in this part, then there is something wrong with us or with those. And so I ask coalition or opposition, please don't attack those we create, we work from people to people. Don't do this. This will not happen to you people, in this way people will not reward you. You haven't done anything for the health system in 25 years. Today a colleague here said that it was that at the annual level 4 to 5 billion went to health care. But then look at the results, where the money is, where that money goes, I ask you. It's just, my dear colleagues, it's not normal. And I am more than proud because I come from the Styrian end, that next to everyone – not to be misunderstood or misinterpreted, I support all investments in all of Slovenia as much as possible, and I will, of course, support this law and this amendment. But I am particularly proud that when the Minister visited Maribor and the Director-General of the Clinical Centre, they found agreement and found that there was an urgent need to make major investments in the end of Styrian. And here I have one record where these investments are defined, and in this law, we create the basis, I stress and repeat, for then we will be able to invest these investments. Of course, budgets will have to provide funds, logically, because that is logical. Only if you don't have a legal and formal basis for how you're going to provide funds. Tell me who you have been in Parliament for a long time or just “buzz” and you are harassing a poor nation. “Fornication” is enough for the nation. For 25 years he has listened to “blowing” and has “blowing” enough. He wants solutions, solutions to their problems, and these are waiting types 3, 4, 5 years and so on. It's madness from madness, it has to cut. This Government is doing this and this coalition is doing this, so I ask you, regardless of the different opinions, to focus around supporting this law and supporting it. And just briefly, the following investments are urgently needed in the Maribor University Clinical Centre; the relocation of the Pulmonary Diseases Department to the location of UKC Maribor. There are 4 million Euros provided here, which is already in the stage because things are already going on. Then what I consider to be extremely important and most important in these circumstances is the expansion of oncological activities in the UKC Maribor, which requires EUR 67 million. You can imagine that you have to “ecological” a patient, ecological, sorry, oncological patient, so that someone doesn't turn it in the wrong direction again. Drive the cancer patient from, say, Murska Sobota to Ljubljana. Do you know how to imagine that? Did you know that you have this parent, child, anyone? What a pain it is and what it means for the health system. What's in the back before you transport someone with such diseases from Murska Sobota to UKC Ljubljana. And we need to stop this, we need to find a solution to this problem solving for that part of Styria, Prekmurje and so on, is the whole part covered by UKC Maribor there. We have these options, this will must be, Slovenia is ours, not from one, not from the other, but it is ours, our shared responsibility. And I'm sure we can do that if we want to. And this law is one of the great proposals for me. One of the top proposals, and the responsibility that this government, when taking over the leadership of this country, has also highlighted. Work by people for people. You know that from the words no, there is no solution, there is no way to solve patients' problems. Here you need technology and on the other side of knowledge. And with this law, we create a basis to make it possible. And thank God that I am one of the coalition Members who will be happy to support this marriage, and thank the Government of Janez Janša and all those who are now ministers of this government, that they have decided and are doing what is necessary and necessary for people, from people, once again, for people. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, the entire parliamentary group will be pleased to support this law that we have before us. Especially for what I pointed out earlier. Thank God this minister sees Slovenia as a whole and he understands and understands that it is necessary to invest in all of Slovenia, including UKC Maribor. That's why I'm proud of him and proud of the Professor Professor Anton Crnjac, who is now the Director General of the Maribor Clinical Centre who has a vision, knows what he wants, and leads the Maribor Clinical Center in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's Micah Kordish's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. So since there is obviously some misunderstanding about how we define ourselves in Levica to this health investment law, let me repeat the following. The government of Janez Janša has drawn up a law that at first sight looks very attractive. Over the next 10 years, we will spend €2 billion in health infrastructure, in particular in public health infrastructure. But it gets stuck as soon as we get the details. We quickly find out that this law is made quickly, that it is made lame, and, ladies and gentlemen, this is simply not how two billion civil money works. Even if there's an election around the corner. But it's not a lonely case. The same practice of legal negligence can already be monitored throughout this mandate. If you remember what the first act in the National Assembly was when John Janša ascended to power. The SDS Party has virtually withdrawn all its legislative proposals, which it had previously tabled in the procedure. Suddenly, when the government changed, the laws they had tabled as the opposition were suddenly not good enough to be accepted as a coalition, even though they had votes. The same humility is reflected in this Health Infrastructure Investment Act, which should be based on analysis and needs assessment, but is not. In the first reading, the Secretary of State said, for example, that at the Ministry they had made a study on the construction of regional hospitals, but added in the same breath that the same study had been obsolete and updated and that it would be updated by the end of September. What are we talking about? We're adopting the law in mid-September. How is that possible? That we have a law that says, and this hospital is going to go through so much and so much money, and at the same time we don't have a study and an analysis of what needs to be done at all. Here it is clear that the government of John Janša has no idea what needs are and where things should go. However, why, despite all these technical inconsistencies, we will support this law. The reason is as follows. We can fix this mess. If not sooner, in the next term with the next government. Above all, what we would like to achieve in Levica with the support of this law is that the next governments take seriously what the current government is proposing in this law on investment in health infrastructure. So every year, it will go to a poor 200 million euros in Slovenian hospitals or basic health infrastructure, as it has already been, because it has been terribly initiated, as it was not a political priority for any of the previous governments. If we adopt this law, I see it as a very strong political commitment, in which we will also insist in the next mandate in Levica that the next governments actually invest in equipment and new premises that are so bloody needed in our public health system. Without a legal basis, it's hard to imagine how that would happen. He could be. I would certainly like the next government to invest heavily in public health infrastructure, but what we are listening to all day from a political environment, yes, will have to be saved, and there will be no money, up, down, certainly the government, the SDS, as the proponent, hoping to place the next government in a tight spot, in a situation where the state's money will be uprooted and that the planned investments will have to be cut and the big promises made by the previous government will have to be devoured. But, ladies and gentlemen, the country is not s.p. with inflexible revenues. The country fills its budget with taxes, people pay these taxes so that we can all have something together, as a community. They certainly don't pay them to be bought by any government for this same money. These two billion euros for the next ten years, if we put them in perspective, there is actually not a lot of 200 million euros per year. Only the last two governments cut taxes to the rich in the amount of €300 million of budget revenue each year. If we are afraid that money will be gone, all we have to do is abolish tax exemptions for rich people from the previous two governments, and not only will the money be enough to invest in public health infrastructure, but 100 million euros a year will remain. Let us add to this the savings in the state budget that we receive if we cancel for €780 million the heavy waste of money on weapons. We are not faced with some concrete fact that the state will have no money. The country can have money, the only question is if it decides to do so and tax the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I'm going to touch the numbers first. Because the fact is, numbers can't be manipulated that much. The figures point to certain facts, and these facts are that in the last 11 years, investments in health have been made for about half a billion euros precisely if I say 493 thousand 202, 710 euros. So, given the law that is now four times less before us or with this law, four times more will be invested in health care in the next decade than it has been in the past 11 years. This is a poor two billion, or with the adoption of an amendment of just over two billion euros, and see, this is more in UKC, both UKC Ljubljana and Maribor, more than the government has invested in health care in the last 11 years at all levels, primary, secondary and tertiary. So only in both UKCs will more invest than you have so far invested in the entire healthcare sector in the country. Now, because before us is still an article 2 with an amendment in the field of primary level in health care. Now I still have to touch here on the debate by my colleague Pavšić, who said he is surprised that we have originally earmarked only EUR 50 million for primary health. Look, your governments have been in the 11 years of primary health care for 10 million projects implemented. Well, let's move on. Of course, there were also amendments to the coalition, now the opposition with which we listened to this appeal from the Slovenian municipalities' associations and we were able to listen to and support the coalition. Of course, because we are aware of the situation in this area, especially at the primary level, after all, health homes are the first in line to be met by our patients and we will also support this amendment. So, 200 million euros for investment in primary health care. Now, this is where I'd get to the state of Slovenian hospitals. Now, that didn't come from today to tomorrow. We know which political parties you have been in government for the past ten years and which had scissors and canvas in hand to do better in this area. What is the situation in hospitals, health care homes, and health infrastructure in general, is likely to be known by anyone who has visited or visited any of these hospitals in a short time. But to do a little bit of scrubbing, what the health care community says. In fact, this has been an appeal since 2011, that the length of equipment in Slovenian hospitals is 67 per cent and that in 2020 it was already 80 per cent of the duration. So what governments have done in the last ten, eleven years in this area. Yeah, I think, given the numbers I just introduced, they're either struggling a little bit or almost nothing. And now I must say that I have listened to all these opposition Members who have been sitting here for many years in Parliament, who have, after all, also been part of the coalition and the government, and nothing has been done or less, for our patients and, of course, today, an introductory address, I will say, my colleague Möderndorfer, about the consequences of the decisions. Now, I'm curious, isn't it, what will be the consequences of your previous decisions or decisions, especially what responsibility will be taken for this, because there was almost no investment because, today, it would certainly not be the situation we have and probably a much easier and more friendly action for our citizens in Covid's time if we had a better health condition? On the one hand, it is in infrastructure and, on the other hand, also in personnel. If I'm saying there was almost no investment, you've had a lot of affairs, just to remind me of the overpaid operating table and the gold rods they found, after all, the ventricles, right? Here, in the previous composition of Parliament you had or had an investigative commission. Of course, this investigative commission was led by a colleague, former Member of Parliament, Jelka Godec, by the SDS, but certain irregularities or specific payments were found to health care and now what the then government did, and also later the government under Marjan Šarc. Nothing, right? Nothing has been done in the area of justice to sanction all these findings and even less in the field of public procurement in order to amend legislation that would basically prevent such violations from occurring. You're wondering where we'll find the money. Look, all I'm going to tell you is that in the eleven or twelve years of your government led by your opposition colleagues, 2.5 times as much budget was allocated to the public media as to hospitals. 2.5 more budgetary resources than for hospitals. So now you can see where the priorities of the previous governments were. So, apparently, public media is a priority in front of hospitals. So, look, I basically say that the law is good, and more importantly, it is absolutely necessary in the light of the situation we have. And it's obvious that the opposition somehow admits that. After all, when we had the board meeting, there was no vote against it. But it must also be said that this law is no matter what, I will say, for now all the empty phrases that I have heard in previous discussions is the first, first and decisive step towards better and more effective, faster accessible health care for our citizens and citizens. Because, you know, so far, our citizens have mostly listened to a lot about your so-called public health care. Now I say that there has never been this public health care, because if there were, in public health, there should be a patient at the forefront, but in view of the increasingly long-term waiting periods, the more sophisticated equipment, the lack of staff of course there were, as I have already said, a number of corruption affairs that have not yet been experienced by a judicial epilogue. An interesting reaction from the opposition was, however, when the coalition MPs tabled this law, which would prevent further overpayments in health care, that is, considerable excitement on your part. So it will also be very interesting to monitor your decisions and reactions when considering this law at the next meeting of the National Assembly. This is certainly another important area where we could certainly get money for our patients and patients, for investments in health care, but not that it is happening as it is now, overpaid that the same medical material one hospital pays more than 80% more than in another hospital. Look, these are reserves. But as I say, so far, on your part, the governments so far in all these years, there has been no hearing about this area being settled, there has been no listening. So this government has a few months before the end of its term of office. And I assure you that until then, unlike all the governments so far, this government will continue to work for the good of the people in all areas. There's been a lot of good done at this time. If we look at it this way, from the area of infrastructure where projects are being implemented, because only during my term did I listen to how everything cannot be done, but today these same projects under this government are already being implemented. And if we look at the area of investment in education, you haven't spent any money in 10 years, now it's 10, I'm sorry, 100 million for investment in education. We have fixed pensions, a full-time pension, a correction of the injustices to those who have occurred by amending legislation. As the opposition, we asked you then for your obedience, and we didn't get it. And we fixed it and saved it when we have our own government. So look, I assure you that the government will continue to do good, for the benefit of all our citizens and citizens. It is true, however, that the opposition, especially the empty phrases that we have heard many times so far, even when this law is being considered, is on the committee and today at the plenary session. Now the fact is, dear fellows, you can't even get any consensus or consensus that your cooperation as opposition parties would be able to sign no, but you see yourself in the government. But I am sure that it is not to work for the welfare of citizens and citizens, because the way you work, after all, they also show the numbers and the situations we have today in the field of health. And certainly, both I and the Slovenian Democratic Party will be happy to support this law today, because this law is absolutely necessary and is also the first law in 30 years of our country that makes such investments in health care. And it will, I believe, save a lot of things both in the field of infrastructure and personnel, that patients, our citizens and citizens, when they are sick, will also reach the doctor in due course and those health services that we also need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Today we are discussing investments in health care for four hours and in the debate there was a talk about how this government has prepared an excellent law. It should be pointed out that this excellent law is contained in the eight articles. And we've also heard the praises of how long this government has been working for. And yes, today, this four-hour debate would not be necessary if, on Friday, an expensive coalition confirmed the opposition's amendment. But it seems necessary to somehow sleep through things, and, yes, you have overlooked the need to listen to the congregations, to the association of the congregations that sent us, and I will say this letter, from which it follows that only 47 municipalities that have joined the submission of their proposals are worth more than 170 million investments at the primary level. So, in the opposition, we had already tabled an amendment Friday, which, unfortunately, the coalition was unable to support at that time. And yes, thank God, today you've missed, today you're saying a little differently that you've listened to them. And I hope this amendment gets more support as well. There have been several times, but I will begin by absolutely agreeing that strategic investments in the health system are urgently needed, as long-term sustainability and operationality and efficiency are urgently needed. But allow me to touch the malnutrition of the health system. According to the OECD, Slovenia has 3.2 doctors per 1,000 inhabitants. Our neighbouring Austria 5.2, Germany slightly less, 4.3. And the Council of the European Union has also made a recommendation to Slovenia to ensure an adequate, sustainable health system, as well as adequate care for the population, which is welcome for any longer-lived individual in certain disadvantaged demographic situations which are unfavourable for the country. So on the one hand, we have a critical shortage of doctors, on the other hand, of other health personnel, and cancer is the wound of our health system. And respected colleagues, at the previous point, of the Foreigners Act, we also discussed this issue of students, foreign students coming to the Republic of Slovenia for study, but this law was not supported. Foreigners Act severely restricts foreign students to study in our country. But if we look at the adoption of this law on foreigners, these students in this area, the area of health that we are talking about today, could be extremely helpful. Why do I think so? Because when a student comes to Slovenia, he would have learned a language, and in fact, these language barriers would have been reduced, and entry into the labour market would have been significantly easier. But not as we now face importing — otherwise, it sounds bad — doctors from abroad, with which there is usually a translator and help them. So I'm extremely, extremely disappointed here that we haven't actually heard of these students being kept in our health system, which we just know is that our health system and our education are extremely successful. The school system is demanding and I believe that we would train extremely highly qualified doctors in our health system. And in the material you refer to "the critical shortage of doctors and other health personnel, and for the long-term sustainability and effectiveness of the healthcare system, it is essential to increase the number of admissions to one master's degree in medicine, dental medicine, pharmacy and other health education programmes, thus strengthening the long-term health system and bringing it closer to the European average in measurable indicators". This is very nice to hear and very nice to write down, but as we talked today that waiting times are increasing, these waiting times will be even longer with all these measures now being taken. And absolute accessibility to a doctor is greatly, greatly reduced and here we have problems, really big problems. And this is where I get the question, just when do we see a doctor? I personally visit a doctor when I assess that my medical condition is so I will say bad or I estimate that I may get worse. That's when I visit him. I'm not going to the doctor to look at him, but I'm talking to him about the weather. Absolutely not. So there will be problems here and waiting species will be extended so that the question of what period will they be able to resolve them at all. And speaking of this law today; of course, the law, I am pleased that the Secretary of State has said that already EUR 408 million has been provided or is available for health care. Great, fine, I hope that this will also hold and that this will also be reflected in budget documents 2021 and 2022. Although there has been a talk today about these sources, where they will be provided and these sources – it was said from the debate that if the assessment, if we know how to make a good economic environment, we can have these resources so that we can provide these necessary investments in health care. So here, we say we have a law that we don't know today whether it will be possible to provide these funds in these ten years or not. We have also heard that this law allows for a first step towards more accessible public health. Yeah, great. I sincerely hope and God forbid that this will be so, because all investments will take place in ten years, but in the current situation I fear that accessibility to public health will be very, very limited for a lot of people. But I think the Secretary of State knows too well what I'm talking about, and everyone else who's following me. I also absolutely agree with the fact that, in the past, in this National Assembly, there have already been investigative commissions where money is running out. We have also made some criminal proposals, suspicions of the crime. The investigative authorities must now do their part. At this point, I'm wondering where the money went now at this worst time of crisis co-vid, from the acquisition of medical equipment, ventilators, protective medical equipment, some of which is also useless. But that's just the way it is, and in the past, you've told us that we've spent too little money on health care. And look at the fraction, in 2018 the SDS filed a constitutional action on the basis of the budget plans of the then coalition, in which we were Social Democrats. Because we're supposed to spend too much at the time. At the time, the government even assessed the surplus. In the future, we are absolutely waiting for a fiscal rule to come into force again, which means that public money will need to be extremely, extremely careful. And if you actually allow me, I would touch even more in detail this amendment, which has already been given a lot of talk today. Of course, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia addressed a letter to us. We examined it thoroughly before the parent's working body meeting, because at the time it seemed to them the resources of the proposed law, because at the time the coalition proposed or the government, I apologize, the government proposed only 50 million investments at the primary level. With the amendment, it increased them to 150 million. We already proposed 200 million on Friday, because from all this document we got on the table, it was essentially that 150 million was still too small. We believe that even the 200 million will be very difficult if all more than 200 municipalities join the call for proposals that will be needed in the future. But we're missing a lot. We're running out of analysis, we're missing a public network, and actually the network doesn't count as it did in the past, because we have an old network. And we have absolutely one problem. I believe that long-term rescue is essential, and let us also hope that patients who really need public health will also receive this public health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We've reached the last reported in this circle. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to all present. So, as we have heard, we are considering a proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care for the period 2021 to 2031. Now in the discussions of previous Members, including coalitions, we have heard that no one in this Chamber is against investment in Slovenian health care. We are all aware that they are urgent, but, of course, the opposition is once again troubled by the way that there are no criteria and so has been heard by Members. It is true, however, that at the meeting of the committee itself, as the Secretary of State has already said, we have also been very carefully presented with an analysis of the needs, the analysis that has been done in the health sector, and thus the criteria by which individual investments in health will work, that is to say, are being implemented. In fact, I cannot forget today the frightening data on the disease of the people of eastern Slovenia with regard to diabetes and the increased pressure, clots and therefore these coronary diseases. Here it is true, the data was frightening, and these specialists will certainly have to be brought closer to this part of Slovenia. Now, I can say that, after all, we are following our health care professionalism and innovation, we are certainly following time and development, but of course it is different with regard to investment. Here some challenge us, and I can actually agree with them that we were there in the 1980s. Now, each of us knows some kind of hospital. I can say that I have also looked at the investments, and I am very happy that a number of funds are also allocated to our general hospital in Ptuj, because it is really necessary, the equipment is very outdated in many departments, so there is a provision for the operation block and intensive therapy department in the general hospital of Ptuj and the renovation of the hospital departments, the pharmacy, the medical laboratory. Of course, beyond that, the government has recently completed a financial plan for the construction of an emergency centre on Ptuj, so this is not the subject of this law. Now, also, for both emergency centres, both Ljubljana and Maribor, numerous investments are envisaged. The Maribor investment was already presented by colleague Kaloh, an MEP from Maribor. You stayed with the others, so I won't count. So, a good two billion funds are spent in these 11 years for Slovenian health care. Now, by the opposition, we have also heard the controversy whether these funds have been secured or not. Of course, it is then necessary to provide these funds with budgets every year, but this law provides the basis, because when the budget is being prepared all the legal obligations must be respected and if the law is adopted, then these funds must be provided in all these years. And if we divide two billion, a good two billion by eleven, it's about 190 million on average a year. I think that this can still be ensured and that it is necessary. If so many years, 30 almost didn't invest much, something has certainly been invested in the emergency centres, there has also been a high share of European funds, but it will be necessary, as said, we can also read, for the last time you said at the meeting, over 80% of spending, so the write-off of equipment is in health. In such a way that it is certainly necessary, the funds are more than necessary, and it will certainly be necessary to provide them every year in the budgets, including on the basis of the adoption of this law. Now we have listened to or will be heard by the municipalities, we have already increased the funds for primary level on Friday at the Committee, although there was also a speech in the general debate that the primary level, namely, health homes belong more to the municipalities, but we have also listened to the municipalities, increased these funds on Friday at the Health Committee, but we will also support today this amendment prepared by the opposition, so we know not only to listen, but also to hear, and I am surprised that there are quite a few MPs who are signed under the amendment, and they say that the law will not be supported or voted against. Now I don't know, then I'm wondering about the seriousness or meaning of the amendment, if they don't support the law themselves, because then it won't be adopted again. This has been announced by quite a few opposition Members. As alone or SMC, we will support the law because it is necessary, because it is necessary, it is real, but it needs to be fulfilled, in these 11 years it is necessary to provide health resources. I think we're still very well aware of what health means, although we usually realize when we get sick, not much when we start going around to see a doctor. So, as I say, I will support the law, including this amendment, and I want all of us to realize it as it is set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so I am opening the application procedure. Please sign up. The word is Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. Look, I'll read what it says about the proposal first. “Effective health system is one of the foundations for the successful functioning of a modern state, as it must be able to meet the needs of the population, which is particularly important in the event of the emergency that we are witnessing when the new coronavirus epidemic is declared.” Next. I read it because I'll refer to it later. But first. Dear colleagues, all present. Surprisingly, in 2018, I approved a proposal for financing health care for 35 million. All Members of the Slovenian National Party. But can you tell me where that money went? Who here in this temple of democracy has ever seen data for these 35 million where it was intended? They were just talking about health. We're in here throwing money over the windows, but we can't see the data. Come in. The table shows that 2030 is going to be 96 million, 2031 100 million, and now I'm wondering if everyone in here, when you're a little more professional, I'm going to say, in finance, let's say you're an expert. What will this amount mean then this year? If I go to, I don't know, some construction company, if I compare, today costs Styrofoam, I'll say, about 3 euros, then Styrofoam will cost 30 euros. Now you, who can calculate, will know what I'm saying, that 100 million in 10 years will be worth as much as 10 million today, maybe 20 million and nothing more. So many things are going to come off whether it's going to be for investment or if it's going to be for, I don't know, a support, I don't know, I don't know where it's going to be. And for such an amount, if we confirm it here, certainly I will, it would be necessary to receive reports, even when those Members will be behind us, because we are taking the money 2 billion for 10 years to get or get at least once an annual report, where it was intended, who received everything, also, respected by the Ministry of Health, could have it on this committee, set up and at least 2 MPs from the National Assembly, when the Commission meets to be donkeys from the opposition and coalition to at least be present. Certainly this will be a large amount, and indeed, no one will tell me that it is not true that those Members who will then be in the coalition and those congregations will receive the bulk of the money. Those congregations in need of such money may not receive it because they will not have a member in the wider circle to recommend and then recommend what needs to be done. If I go any further, tell me how it is possible, but this is what I read in this marriage from the beginning, maybe you can tell or not, how it is possible that one day I know that the Covida certificate is valid for 6 months, then I check, they tell me 8 months, today I hear the information that it is back 6 months. Look, that's what you do. All citizens think that we are Members of Parliament. That's not true. When they're accepted, they make fools of these citizens. If he is not vaccinated, he does not need to be tested, he cannot go to a doctor. Yes, my people, I do not represent you. I'm 33 years old, I'm paying for this health care, and now someone's gonna tell me, no, and now you're not going to see a doctor. There's an aunt in, I'll say, over the Radhićs at home, no transportation, she needs to see a doctor. She can't leave because she hasn't been tested, she can't be vaccinated because of health conditions. That's what you have to do at the Ministry, and for the government, and with everything, even that committee, when they talk, yeah, that's not what we recommended, that's what others recommended. And if I touch NIJ, but here I really, really mind that, NIJ gives us some guidance, on which we are all dependent, Members of Parliament have been vaccinated, determined on NIZ, respected colleagues, this NIJ should be an example and should be the first [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u95	Comrade Shisko, colleague of Shisko, we are talking about investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u96	Yeah, well, that's part of it, so I read [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u97	That's not part of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u98	That's why I've been waiting for you for a while. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u99	That's not part of it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u100	No, no, I'll tell you all the way. Look, NIJS should be an example and should be 100 percent intercepted. We can't talk any different because I'm not in the government, up there behind that 20 or so chairs. And it's only right that people know. And you need to appeal to that. [[sign for the end of the debate]] That I'm NOT the first and the only one. And then there'll be more grafts. And finally, I'm just gonna give you one more piece of information because I got it a little earlier. There are 160 people employed in the Omora Psychiatric Hospital and only 30 in the patients. That's the data from June. That's weird, isn't it? Can't those who are already in there go somewhere else where there's a shortage, or I don't know what they're doing. However, we will certainly support the amendment on increasing funds in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yes, almost 30 years later, I can say that the National Assembly will accept systemic funding for health care for the next 10 years. And of course, the value of funds that will consciously go to health is good 2 billion - after the last committee that was, of course, a little more than 2 billion - in order to strengthen primary health care. This is certainly intended for solidarity, fair and universal health care, which will provide all patients with safe and quality treatment, for sure. And I can say that this is a good plan, which will eventually be implemented by future governments. It will be built in Slovenia, it will be renewed, but the most important thing is for whom – for people. This time it's two billion people. And it seems to me that we may differ from some past governments in this particular area. What I think is important is to stress in this law that investments for each year will be determined by an annual plan to be adopted by the government and that the government will report annually to the National Assembly on the implementation of this law, and, of course, by the end of May at the latest for the last year. It is said that the National Assembly will be informed of the investments, of the financial situation, so that control will be carried out. This is what I hope to say that there will be no TEŠ-6 what we know about how investments were made there. After years we have a divided coster that will actually help strengthen the competences of healthcare staff to ensure quality care, digital transformation of health care, access to the health system, effective treatment of communicable diseases. And in addition to all investments in UKC Ljubljana, Maribor, General Hospital, Gorenje Regional Hospital, General Hospital Izola, Slovenj Gradec, Brežice, Ptuj, Murska Sobota, Novo mesto, Nova Gorica, I can also list Oncology Institute, URIS Soča, in short, if I did not mention one just now, it does not mean that there will be, also Golnik, Center for the Treatment of Infectious Diseases of Children Šentvid near Stična, in short, Valdoltra, Seženska Hospital. In short, money will also go to the periphery, including the countryside, which means strengthening health care, also accessibility for people who do not live in a strict urban environment, and, of course, for this purpose, I think that this is one true, for me personally one of the historical laws that will and will bring about some predictable health funding, the stability of the health system in Slovenia in the next 10 years. I've been listening to your discussions today, and I'm going to say that I'm worried about where the money's going to come from. Of course, some money will come from European funds, and some money will also provide the budget of Slovenia, which is planned somewhere in the course of ten years. I must say, however, that given that one Slovenian portal today writes that Slovenia has received a slap, I understand the opposition's concern that it will be necessary and, of course, we have received a slap from the European Court of Human Rights in the case of subordinated bonds. [[…]] This certainly wasn't the plan of the government this time, and I'm afraid not of any futures. Because we have received, I will say, or that former Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek has received such a slap that it will be necessary to provide a few million euros as soon as possible, which would probably be possible if there was sobriety at the time and if we listened to the Bank of Slovenia, we could devote even more to Slovenian health care or Slovenian pensioners. But it's really a question of where we're going to be for this part, when someone hasn't done it well, and of course today I've said what I've read, that he knew it was going to happen, I think it's an extremely irresponsible act. I can say that such past decisions or self-inflicted decisions, or as I would say, by the then President of the Government of Alenka Bratušek, were irresponsible. Instead of investing in a social state, investing in public education, investing in publicly accessible health care, we will correct the sins, the sin that has consciously committed, just as we have been able to finance the Taiwanese takeover of some banks and, of course, when we have to finance and recapitalise banks. That's a big billion. If we didn't have to do that at the time, I think our health care would be in good shape. And that in such a good condition is Slovenian health, we have seen in the last year that it is at the expense of people, doctors, health personnel, whom I thank and, of course, I am – seeing in the future also with these eyes that we will also provide these people with decent income, because their work is actually being spent on all those who come to these health institutions. Once again, it is very important that the use of these funds is also monitored by the National Assembly and will be informed of this every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u103	Thank you very much. [[adverts from benches]] procedurally. Procedurally, Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u104	Yes, thank you very much for your word, Chairman. Please warn the Member that he does not talk about things that are unrelated and that he does not know much about. Don't get involved in this debate when it has nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I've been following the session this whole time. Nobody talks much about the amendment, except for two or three exceptions. The Vice-President, who opened the meeting and also colleague Branko Simonovic, left a broad debate and this moment there is no other debate than two or three hours ago. You've all been talking about everything. Mag. Andrei Reich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'd give the procedure, too. So I call on you if someone does not discuss the darkness and deceives you to warn and stop it. And the debt is due because you've been drinking and eating and now it's happening the same way. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u107	Procedural. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u108	We're gonna have a headache for a long time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u109	Comrade Reich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u110	I've also given you a procedural proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u111	I understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u112	And he asked you to warn and stop the non-debates in time, and once again I would stress that our heads would not hurt if you did not eat and drink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'll answer that one more time. Given how the debate has been set up over the past four and a half hours, these debates, which are currently under way, which I am conducting, are completely substantively nothing different and do not depart from anything. If we followed the Rules of Procedure consistently, the meeting would have been closed four hours ago. And that's how things go, you debate, you talk about everything. All those who spoke here, for solidarity with my two predecessors, I didn't warn anyone and, I say, things don't run, I'd say, according to the Rules of Procedure, all the time, from the beginning. Colleague Iva Dimic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. I ask that you, too, tell my colleagues that I have only discussed the provision of funds for investment in Slovenian health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u115	They heard, didn't they? You also replied about any possible sources that might be available if the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights were not to be implemented. I propose that we proceed with the debate. Soniboy Prince has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u116	Thank you, Chairman. I will be brief because I only have a good minute of my debate. First of all, congratulations to the coalition for making a great list of desires, needs, our health care. It is also a good thing, but unfortunately, again, as is the custom of all governments of John Janša to leave behind an open issue of funding. Great, you're good, but who's going to fund this resource, and you didn't cover it. How much did you owe this country in a good year? All policies in the last 30 years, as far as health care is concerned, have not provided the right answers. I'm sure of that. 90% of the infrastructure we have in health care has been built in the previous totalitarian system that you like to charge. From health homes, just contributions and all the infrastructure. There's no mention of the staff. Great, today, when it was the word, the concrete mob. It's a concrete mafia law with no funding resources. So, please, stop bragging about what you've done for people all afternoon. Great list of wishes and unfortunately, as usual, you do not have funding resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u118	Thank you, President. By this law, when you came here, you recognized the importance of public health. 2 billion money will not be from the sky, but from the state budget. Please no longer lower your income, there will be a need to increase any more taxes so that we can finance this. I don't see what the professional basis is, where something will work in Slovenia, the ministry has been asked, and I got here on 279th pages - this is what a typical hospital should look like, not where oncology will be, where gynecology will be, and so on, so obviously, everything is still going to be going on everywhere, but in the coming years we just have to change it. Next thing. Please, if we invest this properly, let's raise our salaries to the nurses immediately. Good thing the collective agreement's open. The Minister himself wrote on my question that we are on average 10% behind the OECD, given the country's average. This needs to be done now, or it'll just be paper. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Which we can throw in a basket and what I want to say is I will not now talk about some doubts, but, public health, if it gets two billion, it urgently needs good guidance. In the drawers, the government, you have Pahor's law to regulate the management of public institutions, how to change that director to be the director, but not everything else, just not the man with the authority. So, we need money, we need staff, especially nurses, and the system needs to be run. [[sign for the end of the debate]] rational. There's a marriage waiting for you in the drawer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Simonovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Given the timing, I'll be extremely brief. I expected that today, on the proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care from 2021 to 2031, Members of the debate will unite, overcome the populism-like party interests, because we need health care for all, regardless of customer affiliation. But from the debate between Members and Members, we can see that this is not the case. Some support the law, others seek such and different reasons to vote against. At least that's what they predicted. I will support both the amendments and the marriage. Every government, regardless of what it will be in the future, as well as a coalition in the National Assembly, will have a legal basis in the preparation of budgets over the period [[sign for the end of the debate]] which are available for this law. That is why I have no doubt that these resources will not be provided in the budget. I also believe that MEPs and Members will be supervisors in the coming mandates with their parliamentary questions. When they ask, of course, how it comes true [[sign for the end of the debate]] the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u121	Thank you very much. There's more magic in the word. Andrei Reich. Now I expect you to show your colleagues how the Rules of Procedure work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u122	When a very nice greeting first of all. [[…]] Strong public health is, of course, in the public interest of all of us, and in the SAB of this civilizational achievement, we will by no means give up. However, we must be aware that what this government is doing is something we have seen in the past. He's spending money he doesn't have. If the budget per year has 10 billion revenue and 14 billion expenditure, then four billion is missing. And people who betray or cash or try to cash checks without covering, sooner or later, eventually find themselves behind bars and also experience, experience from the past reminds us somehow and lets us know that history and history repeats itself. And remember only Zvon 1, Zvon 2, Vegrad, these are all companies close, close, ideologically close to New Slovenia, and we are paying their debts today. As far as investment is concerned, order and supervision must be made in the healthcare system first. We have seen what happens when unlimited amounts of money are put into the healthcare system. Health care, therefore, has not been reduced. What's more, they've been extended. And between people, between users and even workers, employees, it's uncontested [[?]] a lot of mistrust. And many now rightly wonder why they would pay in this system if it were not their turn. And if the government promises to put unlimited amounts of money into the system without ensuring quality control, then a number of questions and well-meaning questions are raised, i.e. legitimate questions. The fact is, I see, we have demoralized hospitals, we have morticated equipment, and in health care there is definitely no control, and we don't even know what the waiting periods are today, even though we have a ministry without a license. [[Incomprehensible]] [[?]] for digitisation and yet unable, and yet unable to do so, I will say, to arrange in a uniformly clear manner the waiting types, so that the customer can be attributed, so that the handbill issued is credited to the patient and to the doctor. This is a very simple matter, but the debate is on de-barcation in construction, in the issue of identity cards, wherever there are no major problems. If we want to make order, then we must have the basic conditions known, so that we have clearly defined needs and also capabilities. Certainly in the SAB, we do not oppose investments in health care that are urgently needed, but we note that the government has not prepared any financial structure to provide these funds over the next ten years. So if someone claims that everything is resolved by the fact that the law says that someone will pay for it, and you know today that there are no funds, then in a criminal sense it is a very serious question whether someone issues a check or a guarantee that knows that at the moment that it is issued without coverage. I'm not going to say the words that people are doing right now, but I think that's a clear word and a description of a man like that. In any case, we must do everything we can to strengthen public health, to make it accessible and to ensure that the infrastructure we need is built up as soon as possible, and, of course, we must also ensure that we have enough qualified personnel available for health care and that we know that the staff are fleeing abroad, because the cost of living has only increased significantly in the last two years, i.e. by 15%, and health workers are practically unable to afford rent or a loan for housing, and it is logical, in fact, to go there with the belly for bread where they can afford it, to have one comprehensive measure in order to have enough staff available at hospitals and health homes, which we urgently need. From government representatives to all these important questions, how these questions will be addressed we have not received any answers. That's why I'm going to say very mixed feelings about all these intentions and promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because nobody wants to talk anymore, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 8 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7.43 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 19.59.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-14-SDZ8-Izredna-81.ana.u124	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will first vote on the 2nd and then on the 3rd item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. [[…]] Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. And as we say, we continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda – second reading of the proposal of the Law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021 to 2031. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 14 September. We therefore decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Non-Related Members to the second article. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 Members and Members voted against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded the decision on the amendment, and I am thus also concluding the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting on the basis of Article 137(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I propose that it adopt the following decision. The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 3rd item of the agenda – a mandate for electoral matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a candidate committee member to elect suitable candidates for a deputy or vice-president of the Commission to prevent corruption. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Does the President of the Commission, Mr Hršak want a word explaining the proposal? No, no, no. Then I ask the representatives of the groups of Members if they want a word. Not at all. We're done with the presentation then. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? Not at all. Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing a Mag as a member of the Candidate Commission for the selection of suitable candidates for a Deputy or Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Ingrid Coat Smoker. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 Members and Members voting against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 81st meeting of the assembly. Good evening.
