ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 75th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Lidija Dijak Mirnik, mag. Dušan Verbič and Nataša Sukič until the vote. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 19. Agenda item – Proposal for an outline of the advisory referendum on the adoption of the bill on the national demographic composition. The proposal for an advisory referendum was submitted by a group of 39 Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the text to the representative of the proposer, Luke Mesca, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! In Levica, together with the entire opposition, we propose to organise a consultative referendum on the Law establishing the Demographic Fund. This is a simple reason: this is probably the most important law we are considering in this mandate; this law will most importantly determine how it will manage and deal with 8.4 billion state assets, how it will be staffed in state-owned enterprises and what we will do in the long term with the profits of state-owned enterprises. I repeat, we are talking about 8.4 billion, practically all the state property that this country still has in the form of capital investments. Therefore, we must not leave up to one political option, one political party, but we must ask people what they think about this issue. People need to define through a broad public debate how they want this property to be managed in the future. I stress this particularly because I think we have enough legitimate arguments for thesis that this is not about setting up a fund that is supposed to help patch a hole in the pension box, but rather about setting up a fund that will in particular allow a policy to exercise greater control over state property or, in the extreme case, kidnapping state property by one policy option. And I will briefly describe why this is so after reading this law. When we talk about the demographic fund, we need to look elsewhere across Europe, at the situation and at the material possibilities of setting something up with us. As it is said, Slovenia has 8.4 billion euros in state assets. If we share this with two million, we will find that 4000 300 euros of state property is coming to the people. The most successful or most famous example of the capital financing of the pension fund is the Norwegian funds, pension funds and oil funds, which control every one thousand billion assets, have investments of 9 thousand companies worldwide, and if we share their assets with the number of Norwegians, we will find that 400 000 euros of state property will come to the population only in these two funds. Which means that there are 100 times more assets in these funds, and therefore, of course, they can capitalize on the pensions and well-being of the population. There are no material conditions for this in our case, nor is there any realistic proposal. All the proposals of the demographic funds in our country were designed in a way that we cannot expect to do anything similar in Slovenia in 20 years or 50 years. And that's a fact that needs to be kept in front of your eyes. Of course, other countries, not only Slovenia, would like to imitate what happened in Norway, but Norway is specific because it has huge oil assets to fill these funds with. But those countries that do it do it the other way the government does it. This government says, we set up a demographic fund, and then from this fund we are just currently funding pensions and family policies and building homes for the elderly. Accumulation is expected to be 40% of the profits of state-owned enterprises, as 170 million is foreseen for this year, and 40% of these 170 million are expected to be stored and fertilised in some way. They have a reverse principle in Ireland and France. In Ireland, in fact, they finance the demographic fund from the budget in order to accumulate this deposit and to have in 10, 15, 20 years some real capital value from which it will be possible to patch up the pension fund. This way, as you've done with us, it won't be possible. This has also been demonstrated by the research carried out by the Institute of Economic Research. They say, they estimate that the hole in the pension cash register in 2040 will double approximately according to what we have today. It is said that it will amount to €2.4 billion and their assessment of what this fund could achieve is that there will be 4 and 8% of this hole will benefit from the demographic fund or the profits of state-owned enterprises, after a very optimistic percentage. Nor is the euro to be found in this demographic fund new. Nor is the euro coming from the demographic fund new to the budget. All that will come through the demographic fund is the profits of existing state-owned enterprises, which have already merged into the state budget. In short, it's just a diversion through some other government pocket to the budget and nothing else. There's not even a euro of new value in here. So then we have to ask why this fund is actually being set up. He won't save pensions, not family politics. Remember, if I'm not mistaken, it's already 600 million a year or building a home for the elderly. The minister of this government says we would need 300 million a year if we were to take long-term care training seriously. None of this money running through the demographic fund can be addressed to some extent relevant. The answer to why this fund is being set up is elsewhere. To determine why the fund is being set up, however, we need to look at other things that are changing. The first thing we can figure out is that all state assets will be collected by this fund. The second thing, state property will be acquired by a single supervisory committee and a single administration that will be installed by the ruling policy. Of the 11 members of the Supervisory Board, which will then install 4 members will be appointed by the Government, 5 members of the party, you know that in Slovenian Parliamentarianism means coalition parties and 2 will propose to civil society, young people and pensioners, but these will also have to be confirmed by the parties in Parliament, which means that in extreme cases the government or the government coalition can have 100% representation of its representatives in the Supervisory Council. What this will mean for transparency of governance, what this will mean for threats, for the risk of corruption, you can explain for yourself. But if you want a couple of clues, I can also say that the security guards that now exist with regard to business gifts are about the competences needed to become a supervisor or manager in a state-owned company with regard to the prescribed experience that such personnel need to be reduced by this law. I think we can figure out why they're going down here. Because this government has ambitions in state-owned enterprises to put its people in key places. And perhaps most importantly, wherever such things have been remodeled, as is now the case in the demographic fund, very rarely so radically, there has been some principle of institutional continuity. That is, when, for example, you are transforming the Slovenian State Holding Strategy and its business strategy with state investments into a demographic fund until the adoption of the new strategy, this old strategy applies. In this case, which is ahead of us not. The Administration will have, if I am not mistaken for a year to prepare a new strategy, and in the meantime, the apparent state property will be an open hunting ground for functions, for staffing, for privatisation, etc. In short, the suspicion we have in the opposition is that this government is primarily trying to buy one year before the elections, to do whatever it wants with state property in the meantime. That is why we say that this is not about demography, but it is about trying to kidnap state property by one political option, subjugating state property to serve the benefit of representatives of one political option. Therefore, I repeat, this law must go to a referendum, if not to a consultation, but it will go to a legislative referendum if you accept it and I remind you at this point that you do not want a referendum, in any case it will. If you do not want to consult the people, if you are afraid of the people, as you have shown on Friday with fences all over the centre of Ljubljana, if you are afraid of the opinion of the people so much that you do not hope or ask what they think about your proposals, then you will have to face the opinion of the people at the rejection of the legislative referendum when the law at least so appears to be adopted in autumn, and I will stop here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a consultative referendum was addressed as the parent working body by the Committee on Finance. I give the floor to President Robert Polnar to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 34th meeting, on 6 May this year, the Finance Committee considered a proposal for a consultative referendum on the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Mesec pointed out that the Group of Members and Members, with a proposal for an advisory referendum, wished to ensure that such an important decision was made by the people at the referendum. With regard to the National Demographic Fund Act, he said that all state assets would be managed in a uniform manner, increasing corruption risks. The criteria on the strategic importance of investment will also change. At the same time, he mentioned that control over the management of the fund would be exercised by the ruling coalition on a case-by-case basis. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that, pursuant to Article 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the service had examined the proposal for a legislative or advisory referendum and that the proposal was tabled in accordance with the law, while noting that the referendum issue was unclear in both parts of the question. In the first part, it would be necessary to raise the referendum question more substantively in order for voters to speak on the content rather than on the legal act on their own. The second part of the question is unclear and misleading and, as such, cannot be the subject of a call for an advisory referendum. The representative of the Ministry of Finance presented the Government's written opinion and said that it was necessary to reject the proposal to call for an advisory referendum because of the vague and misleading referendum issue and its explanation. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed the view that a consultation referendum was needed to inform the public of the solutions in the draft law in a certain way. The fact that the fund would not constitute an increase in pensions was highlighted and concern was expressed about possible political corruption, as the fund was represented by the Government. It is also disputed that current spending will be partly financed from the Fund or from the Fund. On the contrary, some members felt that the referendum issue was very vague and misleading, and therefore the referendum was not appropriate. They drew attention to demographic issues and related pension issues that would not be fully resolved by the Fund, as only co-financing of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute is envisaged. As regards the governance authorities, they considered that the power relationship between the Government and the National Assembly was properly regulated, since the National Assembly would also decide, through the Supervisory Board, who would be the member of the administration. They also warned that the Fund would be supervised by the Court of Auditors every business year. Following the conclusion of the discussion under Article 184(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the following proposal for an opinion: the Committee on Finance considers that the proposal for an advisory referendum on the adoption of the draft law on national demographics is appropriate. Eight members voted in favour of the proposed opinion and 11 members voted against. The Committee did not adopt its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u6	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has carefully examined the proposals for a consultation referendum on the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund and has given a reasoned opinion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Proposals to the introduction to the Government state that the procedure for the adoption of the draft Law on the National Demographic Fund has expired without in-depth public debate and that it has not been in line with the social partners. The Government rejects this observation because there are legal bases and public debates for the adoption of the Demographic Fund Act since 2014. At that time, three proposals have already been tabled for the Demographic Fund Act. The draft law on the National Demographic Fund was presented to members of the Economic and Social Council twice and discussed at five meetings of its negotiating group. He was also represented, discussed and supported at two meetings of the Council of State and at the 37th meeting of the Council of State. The applicants base their comments on the proposal of the law on the basis of which the Government has ignored a number of important comments and comments. For example, on a proposal from the Commission to prevent corruption and the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia with the amendments adopted in the second reading, the government rejects this objective, for example, by providing the Commission with a proposal to prevent corruption and the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia with amendments to the second reading of the adopted substantive supplement to strengthen the integrity of the Fund. The core of the proposals is the claim that the National Demographic Fund is a new lever for the privatisation of state property. In this respect, the Government highlights the fact that capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia in 45 companies were sold in the period of government from 2013 to the end of 2020. Not to mention also the sale of investments owned by the Slovenian State Holding and Capital Company, which allowed Gorenje to take over in 2018. On the basis of the decision of the National Assembly on the privatisation of 15 companies and the management strategy, investments by the State in NLB, NKBM, A Bank, Gorenja banka, Heilos, Fotona, Aerodrome Ljubljana, Zito, Elan, Adria Airways Techniky, Adria Airways, Paloma, Cimos and others were sold at that time. In this context, it is also misleading to point out that the government of Janez Janša has turned on the green light of privatisation of 49% of the share of Slovenian Railway freight. The path to this privatisation was opened by adopting a capital investment management strategy in the country in 2015 and thereby amending the Slovenian Railway Company Act 2016. All these solutions and decisions have been taken during some other governments and it is therefore incorrect to state that the government of Janez Janša is giving a green light to the privatisation of the freight company of the Slovenian Railways. Furthermore, the applicants also mention the initiative to conclude an agreement between Slovenia and Hungary on the construction and management of the second railway line of Divača-Koper, while the Government explains that 2TKK is not the subject of a proposal for a national demographic fund law, since it is exempt and does not go into ownership and management of the national demographic fund. The candidates shall also base the call for an advisory referendum on the exclusion of representatives of workers from the Fund's Supervisory Board. Although the same regime also provides for the Slovenian State Holding Act and although the initiative to assess the constitutionality of the exclusion of workers and the SDH Supervisory Board has been rejected by the Constitutional Court since 2018 as unfounded. The motions for a referendum also state the abolition of the privilege of half of the members of the Blue Insurance Supervisory Board of the insurance companies or representatives of the unions. In 2016, the Insurance Supervisory Agency pointed out that such arrangements derogate from the Company and Insurance Act. In the opinion of the UN, such an arrangement restricts the Republic of Slovenia in carrying out this investment and raises the question of the actual power and thus the responsibility of the holder. In addition, the Blue Insurance Company is not the owner of the pension fund of public servants, but is only its manager. To conclude, on the referendum issue itself, it is important to note that they do not meet [[?]] The basic standard of the principle of clarity, which is in force in the Slovenian legal order, is attached to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. For this reason, the Government considers it necessary to reject the proposal to call for an advisory referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. The position will be presented by Andre Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u8	Dear President, Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The current Government is trying to centralise ownership and management of EUR 8.6 billion of state property through the adoption of a proposal for a National Demographic Fund Act in a non-transparent way, without in-depth public debate and through social dialogue. This is problematic, both in terms of governance and in terms of the sense and appropriateness of transferring certain capital investments to the demographic fund, at least so you claim, you are establishing to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. Such a demographic fund, as envisioned by the government of Janez Janša, cannot solve the problem of financial undernutrition of public pension funds. He just can't. His contribution to the pension fund is negligible, and the government wants to finance long-term care and family policy from the fund, you say. The bill provides for the immediate start of current payments to the pension fund, without any accumulation, of at least 40% of the dividends and purchases received, from the sale of domestic capital investments of the fund, 10% of the old-age policy dividends and 10% of the dividends for the financing of family policy. Under the assumption of the country's two percent average annual return on capital investments, the fund could thus, in 2040, invest some EUR 200 million in pension bills, which is only 8% of the expected pension deficit. And if we know that each year's budget covers a mannequin in a pension box and now a year about a billion, and is calculated to contribute 2.4 billion already in 2040, it is clear and obvious that the bill will not achieve its purpose, which is, in fact, the only long-term sustainability of the pension system. Furthermore, according to the LMŠ, co-financing of the construction of dedicated property for the elderly and the financing of family policy is not an expenditure which would be the responsibility of the demographic fund. This is the task of the State and it is the responsibility of the State to find it in the State budget. Nor does the bill provide for any new resources to increase the fund's assets in addition to capital investments and their dividends. In view of all the shortcomings of the law, the objectives of the Government are in fact completely different from those of you trying to show, and these objectives are, to combine everything under one roof and to subordinate yourself, to control and control and thus to obtain new leverages to interfere with the control committees of Slovenian companies, and to privatise state property. The government has deliberately written the law in such a way that everything can be mentioned above and, therefore, puts all the controls and controls of the Fund into the hands of political parties and in its own government hands. In fact, the Assembly, as the main body, is fully aligned with the Government and employees are deliberately excluded. Excluded, that is, for the safe age whose fund is actually intended. I am surprised at the ease with which you repeal the many laws that have regulated the management and control of state-owned companies so far, and by the agreement you are granting new powers to intervene in institutions where they do not have anything to do. The government of Janez Janša insists that the law was in line with the social partners. We all know that's not true. The unions have exposed you to social dialogue, at least not creative and aimed at an agreement, but there was no one. This government just doesn't understand it, ignores it, just as it ignores the social partners, well, employers a little less. Therefore, the Government did not take into account the criticisms, comments and alternative proposals of the trade union centres. Nor did it take into account the strong comments and proposals made by representatives of the public concerned, such as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Institute of Health Insurance, the Youth Council of Slovenia, the National Council of Disabled Organizations, the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia and many others. No one was invited to the Committee on Finance, where the second hearing was held, except for the Ministry of Finance. The four opposition parties' proposal to call for a public presentation of the opinions was rejected by members of the government coalition without discussion. In order to allow for an in-depth public debate before further decisions on the draft law, four opposition parties also tabled a motion to withdraw the point from the Committee on Finance, but here too the coalition Members rejected this proposal without arguments, as they also rejected all important and numerous amendments. Against, against, against – that is the outcome of every vote. So much for your constant calls for cooperation. You repeat them in order to create a public image of yourself of a constructive and cooperative coalition, and unfortunately, you are none of this. In LMŠ we are advocates of a comprehensive pension reform that is intended to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. Part of this reform may also be the pension demographic fund as a partial response to demographic trends, but such a fund can actually and exclusively contribute to reducing the gap in the pension treasury. The fund must be portfolio, based on fundamental principles such as profitability, security, liquidity, economy, flexibility, transparency and independence. But the pension demographic fund alone will not solve this problem in itself, so we need a radical change in the pension system, as well as a possibly more active second and third pillar, changes in the labour market, early youth employment and also a high added value to the economy and thus the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The government's proposal ignores all of this. We're flying a particle of mosaic, it's partial and it's substantively flawed, and it's bad and harmful for the future. For all of this we are firmly opposed to the adoption of the bill in the LMŠ. Since we have exhausted all options, we have only the will of the people. That is why we support the consultation referendum, because we want so important decisions to be made with so many burdensome consequences by the people to whom the Fund is actually intended. It is not just the money of people who, through their income, pay, pay into cash registers, but it is primarily about people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker, all hailed! Your Honor! Today we are not really talking about the demographic fund; today we are talking about another cowardly egg currently ruling. Allow me to explain on behalf of the Group of Members. The establishment of a demographic fund that would additionally fill the pension fund with profits from the operations of state-owned enterprises and assets and thus provide an additional source of stability for it is a historical debt and an unfulfilled promise to citizens and citizens. Since 1996, and in particular since the decision to reduce the contribution of employers to the pension fund, the establishment of the fund has been one of the key conditions for replacing the gap resulting from this in the pension system. A hole that we need to cover every year with more than a billion transfers from the state budget. A hole that we know will increase in the future due to the ageing of the population. So all the professional facts tell us that we need to increase the resources of the pension fund and accumulate the reserve for a critical period, otherwise, in 20 years, the system of intergenerational solidarity will be compromised, including the pensions of everyone we hope to receive at that time. All previous attempts to establish a demographic reserve fund have failed. They have failed because they have forgotten that the purpose of the demographic fund is to provide an additional resource to the pension system, not the management of state-owned enterprises and not the recruitment of supervisory councils and administrations. In order to ensure the security and profitability of its investments, the Fund should focus in particular on global dispersed investment. That the real fund is not and can be a tool to encourage or use domestic investment for domestic acquisitions and defences against them, because its funds are intended for future pensions and not for market speculations, nor for state recapitalisations. Your Honor! How to manage state-owned companies is one science. How to manage resources for a safe long-term return. In no other attempt to legislate the demographic fund, the proposer has so clearly ignored it. In no other attempt has the proposer shown so clearly that he sees the country and its property as a prey to be captured and distributed. In no other attempt has the applicant so clearly ignored the fact that the Republic of Slovenia, in the form of a capital company, has already established a demographic fund for more than two decades and is not entirely independent of its decisions. Second, there are no additional resources allocated and, thirdly, there is no short-sighted consumption for current consumption, rather than accumulation for a third source of the pension system during a critical demographic period. This is all that needs to be regulated for the demographic fund in order to start carrying out its task of demographic reserves. Even though they know all this, the rulings have decided to kidnap all the spoils with one swing. The management of highly diversified investments would therefore be pooled under one roof according to government plans. While the profits of such management would be dispersed for very different purposes, instead of being used for their original purpose. This is co-financing pensions in the future. All state-owned enterprises, regardless of the purpose and method of operation and regardless of the role they play in the economic infrastructure service ecosystem, would be transferred to the ownership of the Slovenian State holding company. This should, pay attention, with reduced criteria for management positions, take care of the management and staffing of all these companies. Profits would also be used to co-finance current pension spending, as well as a vaguely defined demographic and family policy. Only 40% of the profits would be accumulated for the insurance of home pensions, and it is justified to fear that the revenues from the new privatisation sales of state-owned enterprises and their infrastructure are also exempt from the planned profits. In the last year, the debate on the concept of the demographic fund clearly shows a difference in the way the rulings and the opposition work. On the basis of past experience and professional backgrounds, we have drawn up and transparently presented a proposal to complete the work together and settle the debt to the future generation. It was almost uncontroversially considered inappropriate by the rulers. No debate. Instead, the government has drawn up a law without public debate, without cooperation in the Economic and Social Council, so an agreement has been reached. And without any answer to the essential question of how to secure pensions after 2040. In the opposition, we responded to the proposal by means of constructive amendments, calls for dialogue and proposals to involve the professional and interested public in the process of addressing the proposal. The rulers responded with ridicule and stubborn insistence that their proposal needs no change, no complement, no dialogue and no consensus of the people. That is why today we have a proposal for a consultative referendum on which people would decide whether or not to agree with the concept offered by the Government. The consequences of its final adoption could be fatal for several transitional decades and for the pension security of several generations. No one has the right to turn the steering wheel so far from the previous course, without therefore being given the mandate of the people. Since this is a decision that will significantly exceed the term of office of this Government or of this National Assembly, in view of our democratic regime, it is only appropriate for people to decide on it at the referendum. The question is whether the pension system of the future will be based on solidarity or based on selfishness. In all generations, including those who may have had minor direct benefits from the establishment of a demographic mastadont set up by the Government. The responsibility lies in the direction of the development of the Slovenian pension system. Therefore, we must also invite other Members and Members of Parliament to support the popular vote, particularly those who have stressed the benefits of pensioners and their commitment to all generations. None of us have been elected and elected to give a mandate to legislate the demographic fund, which so clearly deviates from the previously agreed guidelines, the professional basis and the facts that required its establishment. By impoverishing such a demographic fund, future generations of pensioners would be cheated for the selfish and short-term benefits of the current generation, from which we expect to finance current and future pensions through taxes, contributions and savings. If the so-called demographic fund exhausts the last reserves for current consumption, the current pensioners may receive an allowance or two more. And all future generations will be able to depend only on themselves. We believe that Slovenian pensioners and pensioners do not want to break the promise among generations that they want to leave their offspring a system that will also provide them with at least a minimum threshold of decent pensions. We therefore believe that in the referendum decision, solidarity over selfishness would prevail, that people not only vote for a few promised dozen more in their pocket, but that it is something far more important. That, as a community, we are all involved and accountable, not only for ourselves, but also for those who come after us. That we cannot really accept the belief that future generations will not wait for their pension, but that they can also be assured that their contributions will eventually become worthy pensions if society is properly organised for this purpose. Since the decaying voting machine of the ruling coalition is neither a professional basis nor a social dialogue, nor a political consensus, before the third reading of the law is the last opportunity to ask the people at the referendum whether this is what they expected. The Social Democrats will support the proposal for people to decide on this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. We can read the idea of the demographic fund with two separate emphasis. The first focus is on the first half of this sectage, i.e. as a demographic fund. What does that mean? State-owned management is expected to propose decent surpluses to fill the current hole, which will ensure future sustainability for pension and safe age. The emphasis on the second part of the sectagema, that is to say, implies that this state property is guided by example, is guided by transparency, and that it follows our common benefit. When we take a look at the government's implementation of this idea, which, with the goals I have just outlined, is also selling out, we find that the Janez Janša Demographic Fund is anything but a means to ensure a decent age or a means of rationally operating with the state, that is our common assets, but just a cover that will allow the government of Janez Janša and her friends to access EUR 8 billion of state assets that it will be able to work on its own for one year at the level of the whole country. If I start with why Janez Janša's demographic fund isn't really a demographic fund. The current picture of the pension fund is such that the state of budget resources must finance it with €1.15 billion only in 2021. The second need that can be placed in the Safe Age category is long-term care. Here the government's assessment says we need 300 million euros every year, and only 12 million euros are provided in the budget. Here are the family benefits and parental benefits at the annual level we spend about 600 million euros on them. Under the line already outlined, the social need is that every year we need 2 billion euros to ensure a safe age as we currently do in this state. Let us therefore compare these figures, as stated, under the line of EUR 2 billion per year, with the promises of the demographic fund under the Government of Janez Janša. For 2021, EUR 171 million is foreseen in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. If we divert this to the ZPIZ, as envisaged by the demographic fund of Janez Janša, and pay 40% of this amount, we will come to 68 million euros on stakes, ignoring the unfavourable economic conditions we have faced. 68 million euros, ladies and gentlemen, to grant pensions, some 100,000 Slovenian pensioners with a 2 billion-euro need. The demographic fund of the Government of Janez Janša is a bluff. Why is Janez Janša’s government so much bluffing with this demographic? Let's look at the second focus of the syntagma, that's the fund. The criteria for the holding of leading positions within the demographic fund of the Government of Janez Janša are lower than they currently exist. In doing so, it is envisaged that the 4 Supervisors of the Demographic Fund will be appointed by the Government, 7 Supervisors of the National Assembly, and 2 rather symbolic representatives from the elderly and the youth, the Youth Council and the ZDUS are expected to belong to each representative. This demographic fund would therefore be fully subordinated to the graces of every ruling policy, coalition and its governments. In all of this, we must not forget that all value comes from work. It is the workers who have been released from the implementation of the demographic fund and the current state investment management strategy has been released, the newly created demographic funds with the new set-up would have given them one year's free hands to do what his soul can with this state property, including to privatise it. The Socialists offer a completely different alternative, which should in fact and not only provide rhetorical and propaganda responses on the one hand to the needs of Slovenian pensioners, current pensioners and future pensioners, and ensure transparent and rational management of 8 billion state assets for both current and future generations. The key measure we need to fill the hole in the pension register is not some hand-to-hand transfer of dividends from one pocket of state revenues to another pocket, but an equalisation of the contributions paid by employers to the pension register to the amount paid by workers. The problems with the sustainability of the pension register began only in 1996 when the then authorities cut employers' contributions virtually by half, and from that title we lost EUR 20 billion in the pension register from 1996 to today. Of course, the fact that workers contribute much more than employers do is not fair. And the socialists propose that this be improved so that the contribution rates are equal. This was, after all, a measure agreed with the previous Government, the Government of Marjana Sarca, which would bring half a billion euros each year after a transitional period of four years of gradual lifting of contributions to the pension fund for employers. Well, with this serious income, we can talk about how pension funds have provided additional stability for the next few decades and how we can raise pensions with this additional income; I would like to stress in particular the need to raise the lowest pensions first. The second part of this equation, i.e. the fund itself, the management of state property, we also see the exact opposite of the government of Janez Janša. Employees must have a key role to play in business management. Employees through their representatives, through labour councils, through trade unions are the ones who are most familiar with the internal structure of these companies, are most familiar with production processes and, crucially, they are not some estranged managers who receive a good salary, and then they do not care how the company turns around and how it works. These are people who depend on the good and sustainable operation of these companies for life and therefore have the most organic interest that these companies do not privatise, that they do not work with them as pigs with fur, that they do not serve as political ATMs or anything like that. This work management with 8 billion public property needs to be upgraded with social objectives that need to be agreed by the current and also by any next policy around which we need to unify. In Levica as socialists, we say that these key social objectives are three: the first is development, the second is jobs, and the third is environmental sustainability. When we talk about development, we aim to see that the Slovenian economy needs to be transformed from a commercial subcontracting economy that provides semi-products for German companies, which then realizes the full value of final products into a capacity of concluded production chains, which can compete with final products on the global market and catch pools of values and niches that can make it viable. This profitability, with a higher added value, also brings quality jobs with the creativity of production processes. These are not jobs where people break their backs for eight hours a day; but this has become rare, people today break their backs hard over eight hours a day and sometimes even less than for minimum wage. These are jobs with much higher incomes and those that can offer some satisfaction at work to the employees who do this work. Of course, environmental sustainability. We are all dealing with the Covida-19 epidemic, but the key challenge of the beginning of the 21st century, which is becoming increasingly clear before us and is already here, is the threat of climate damage, followed quickly by the threat of biodiversity, and the economy is the key backbone that burdens the environment, and our task is to restructure it in such a way as to ensure the well-being of all citizens and citizens at the same time and in such a way that the environment does not wear out. Ladies and gentlemen, the referendum on the demographic fund will be, the question is what. Whether, as we have on the table today, the government of Janez Janša will consult the people on how to ensure fair income in the pension fund and finance Slovenian pensions and how to manage state assets, that is, as an ATM of the government of Janez Janša or as a common good, but if the government does not want to hear it, the unions have already announced a subsequent legislative referendum that will be binding. We also support this forecast in Levica; we will join the referendum. EUR 8 billion of state property is something belonging to 2 million people, not one coalition, one government and one government president. It is not only the current need for the Government of Janez Janša to provide these 8 billion euros as a basis for strengthening its power and non-stop "paying" services to various friends, such as in Hungary, the only reason that concerns the construction of the demographic fund that we have on the table. It is very simple, as I have tried to describe earlier through social objectives and what socialists say that it is necessary to do with state property - such a demographic fund, such an economic infrastructure, is a condition for a society of happy people who come to work, who are well paid, who are satisfied with what they do at work, who see the development that their company brings to the local community. But in the company of satisfied people, Janez Janša will never again see power, because satisfied people are immune to the false news and manipulation that originates in the direction of the extreme right. And it is also some ugly, ugly future that we must prevent, all together, if necessary, even at the referendum, given that the needs of the people are not heard by the government of John Janša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, if there were fair purposes, the referendum question would also be proposed in some honest spirit, as suggested: “Are you in favour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopting a bill on the National Demographic Fund, which does not solve the problem of pension financing, but to the government of Janez Janša, it also increases the possibility of recruitment by state companies and privatisation.” If the referendum question were to end this way - whether you are in favour of the adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund, i.e. after some analogy with the legislative referendum, then this proposal would in fact be worth considering. But when the proposalr integrates the forced interpretation of the law into the referendum question, then you understand that it is not about fair purposes. In addition, it is worth recalling that the National Demographic Fund's governance strategy has not yet been adopted by the National Assembly, as there will, in fact, be essential provisions on how the management of the National Demographic Fund will be managed by assets. Today, colleagues and colleagues are more than ever in the history of the Slovenian state near the establishment of a national demographic fund. Why am I saying that? Allow some facts to refresh your memory. More than 8 years ago, in the National Assembly, we adopted the last pension reform of the so-called ZPIZ2. At the time we were part of the coalition, but this is not even so important now, it is important that this pension reform, namely the ZPIZ2, received a lot of support in the National Assembly. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2013 and, inter alia, this Act states that until 2015 it shall enter into force. 1. 2015 set up a demographic reserve fund, i.e. by 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Six years after this provision, we are six years late, 6 years is about 8% of the life expectancy of Slovenia or Slovenia. We've lost six years. Today, I will not analyze why governments have not done so in the last six years, mostly left-wing governments. Whether they were capable or incapable of what was happening to the coalitions this is not important now, it is important that we have lost 6 years and the demographic indicators have gone only down at this time. This has been pointed out by the European Commission not least by Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. And since we have lost six years, in the coalition contract in the second chapter, which has the title of youth, family, pensions, social affairs, we have written down the founder of the Slovenian-demographic pension fund very high. Ladies and gentlemen, demographic change is causing our social and cultural order and changing our coexistence. There are fewer young people, and there are more and more older people. This means a lot of pressure on intergenerational solidarity and a lot of pressure on public finances. Intergenerational solidarity, family support and cooperation between young and old are key tasks, are our key tasks. The life expectancy of the population is increasing, indicating improvements in the standard of living of the population and in the progress of medicine. The needs of people and their families will also change in a long-lived society in the future. We want to create opportunities for the quality life of all generations and decent ageing. This requires a coordinated adaptation of labour market measures, lifelong learning, health and long-term care, social protection, the living environment and other areas. Traditional ties are becoming increasingly difficult to maintain, so we want to encourage this and help to find and develop new ones. People are becoming more mobile and social ties are changing. More and more activities are digital, and for this reason the connection with the country, our sense of community and our values are so important. Slovenia must be accessible for immigration to a highly qualified and required workforce. In addition to the professional qualifications and needs of our economy, the compatibility of the culture of forced persons with our Slovenian culture should be taken more into account in the future. We do not need immigration that overloads and burdens our social assistance systems. We must prevent the exploitation of the tax and social system, which causes discomfort and resistance between Slovenians. Forced persons should therefore receive an adequate fair payment for honest work. The exploitation of the country must be stopped immediately. We want to prevent social tourism. Slovenia is one of the countries where the population is the fastest. The OECD and the European Commission remind us of the threat to long-term fiscal sustainability due to public consumption associated with ageing. The proportion of the elderly is increasing, and so are the costs of pensions and other ageing-related expenditure. The OECD foresees that by 2055 these expenditure will increase more than in most other European countries. It therefore points out that the pension system must be prepared for the ageing of the population. For New Slovenia, it is always a long and long time ago, but also now the first priority was modernisation, modernisation of the pension system. Our pension system isn't sustainable, we all know that for a long time. Our priority was never a demographic fund. But it is true that when you meet with coalition partners when you write a coalition contract, coalition partners want to put their priorities into a coalition contract. And you accept that, and when the contract is signed, the principle of “pacta sunt servanda” applies, the contracts must be respected. Since last summer, we have coordinated the text of the National Demographic Fund Act at an expert level and we estimate that it is good, so we will also support it in the third reading in Novi Slovenija. After many years I can say almost inhumane treatment of the elderly, to the pensioners, we made important moves last year and also this year, not only in the coalition treaty, but also in action. The last home of the elderly was built in 2005 by Nova Slovenije. Today we see that in fact almost most of the homes are for older architecturally unprepared for epidemics such as was and is an epidemic covid-19. Minister Janez Cigler the King issued a very important tender Monday, weighing about 93 million, with which we want and will build, if I may say so, a home infrastructure. As far as pensions are concerned. Last year – to list – regular harmonisation, annual supplement, extraordinary alignment with the December adopted law of 2%, which is about 94 million at the annual level last year, once and this year on 11 January a special solidarity allowance for pensioners. When we put all this together, it is said that the special payments for pensioners in addition to the regular pension amount to about 540 million. And we want to, we want to make amends to the pensioners. There is already law in the parliamentary procedure and we are looking for resources to adopt this law. It is time – and we will do so, this coalition will do so – to correct the injustices of pensioners who have been going on for many years. This consultative referendum is irrelevant. And the New Slovenia Group will not support the proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the National Demographic Fund Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u16	Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! We have before us a proposal to call for a consultation referendum on the adoption of the draft law on the National Demographic Fund. In the Modern Centre Party, it is estimated that the implementation of such a referendum would delay or delay the adoption of this law after unnecessary time. Remember, the establishment of a demographic fund that would help bridge the difference in expenditure over the income of the pension fund has been delayed for many years. The basic purpose of the future national demographic fund, as defined by the law governing pension and disability insurance, will be to co-finance the pension fund on the basis of intergenerational solidarity. Once the legislative process was finally introduced in autumn 2020, the first government legislative proposal is today's proposal to implement the previous consultation referendum only to be understood as a political manoeuvre of the opposition's stallion. Let me add here that the outcome of such a referendum would not be binding at all. However, the proposed referendum issue is even misleading, according to the assessment of the Legislative and Legal Service. But such a hindrance manoeuvre is completely incomprehensible and directed against the interests of Slovenian citizens of all ages, so there is no logical and sound reasoning to justify and justify it. The fact is that we urgently need the demographic fund as soon as possible. This is not only because of the 2013 pension reform commitment, but mainly because of a really bad demographic picture in our country. This shows that more than a quarter of Slovenians are over 65 years of age. However, trends suggest that the pressures on the pension system will only increase in the coming years. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the prepared law fully refers to intergenerational solidarity in a transparent and efficient way. Further reinforcement of this type of solidarity is also a provision on the annual allocation of 10% of the collected dividends for co-financing policies for the care of the elderly and on the allocation of an additional 10% of the dividends per year for family policy and scholarship policies. We estimate that the bill consistently addresses its fundamental objective of ensuring transparent, safe and profitable management of fund-owned investments with the aim of increasing the value of co-financing of compulsory pension insurance, which will be possible on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, in line with the guidelines of good corporate governance practice and in providing measures to enhance governance integrity. The appointment of members of the Supervisory Board will also differ significantly from the current appointment process in the Slovenian State Holding, as the Government will appoint four and the National Assembly 7 from the total 11 members of the Supervisory Board. By comparison, now five members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, on a proposal from the Government, are simply appointed by the National Assembly in a package. Thus, the National Assembly will play a decisive role in the selection of seven of the eleven overseers. It is therefore difficult to join the perceptions that the establishment of the National Demographic Fund is a step backwards or a step towards reducing transparency in the wind of the inadequate structure of the Fund's bodies. It is also possible to reject all indications that the National Demographic Fund Act should be designed as a new lever for the privatisation of state property. The proposal for a law accurately foresees that all criteria and criteria and the direction of handling State property will be enshrined in the Fund's Investment Management Strategy, which will be endorsed by this National Assembly. It is interesting to note that the most loud indications of non-transparency, or because of the covert privatisation that comes from that part of the opposition, which, at the time of the mandates of its governments, acted inconsistently, unstructured and without any long-term strategy solely at the level of some ad hoc interventions, such as a list of 15 privatisation companies. This was indeed confirmed by this National Assembly, but the companies were included on that list without the appropriate criteria and criteria, i.e. more by feeling and thinking. In addition, in 2015, the country's capital investment management strategy, i.e. at the time of the Cerara government, was the first system management document to handle state assets. And since it was also an expert document of a financial nature, there was no broader social debate about it. Therefore, the opposition's calls for a broader debate on the future country's capital investment management strategy are entirely unfounded and inappropriate today. However, since this 2015 strategy or the life expectancy of this strategy is being concluded, a new strategy will in any event need to be adopted, adapted to the new situation, state and condition of state property. And the law you want to stop with this referendum gives such a legal basis for a new strategy. It can be concluded that such strong opposition opposition and all delaying manoeuvres can also pose a major threat to the interruption of certain established, business-policy and human resources links that would result from a new model of state property management and here, according to our assessment, the essence of all opposition to this, the establishment of a national demographic fund. But in the SMC Group, we are also aware that the establishment of the demographic fund is not in itself a solution to all the demographic problems we face. We understand the demographic fund in particular as the basis for further pension reform, which will burden the pension system in the longer term and fill the ever-widening gap between income and pension fund expenditure. Therefore, we will not support the proposal to call for a consultation referendum on the adoption of the proposal for a national demographic fund law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u18	Your Honor! This government can't see or hear people or the professional public. She is convinced that all her decisions are correct and that she has established sufficient discipline to silence all those who would publicly question and vote against her decisions. In doing so, he forgets the power of the people. One of the most important laws affecting the fate of all citizens and citizens has been introduced into a procedure without public treatment or serious discussion, past social and intergenerational dialogue. Not only does this government not know how to establish dialogue, but it does not want to do so. This is supported by the exit of trade unions from the Economic and Social Council. Why is this government afraid of people? Why is he afraid of the ones we should be working for? The government proposal has received numerous comments and yes, the professional public and people are right, such a demographic fund as the Government does will not burden the budget and will not ensure the sustainability of the pension system. The fact is that they will benefit from the government proposal only by ruling. The current and future pensioners will have nothing from such a fund, so all those who really care about pensions and pensioners should vote against this law and the consultation referendum. It is only right that everyone in this room should first answer a few questions. Will we allow again the looting of state-owned companies, which we once knew and which we were convinced can no longer be repeated in Slovenia? Will we allow this government to dismantle the current, current system of government property management that we have been building for the last decade? Are we going to give this and all the next governments free to sell around EUR 9 billion worth of state property? Will we allow this government, with one swing, to replace the entire set of supervisors simply to provide its faithful staff with positions and influence and power? Will we allow the resources of the demographic fund, which should be accumulated for the next generation of pensioners, to be spent for different purposes and not just for pensions? No, no, no. We won't let that happen in the SAB party. In the SAB, we are convinced that the property must remain the property of the country, and the fund should only manage it, that the funds of the fund must be allocated to only and exclusively pensions, that the funds of the fund must be accumulated for at least 20 years, that the fund must have additional faiths – and that is, according to our money from the use of two natural Slovenian valuables, these are water and wood. And this is what we want to ensure in the SAB party, both for current pensioners and for young people who will be retired in 20, 30, 40 years. Stable sources for pensions today and even after 40 years. We are aware that the outcome of the consultation referendum is not binding. We are also aware that this Government will not act differently even if most citizens oppose the law, but we give people the opportunity to express their views. It is right to hear our citizens and citizens, because they are the ones the demographic fund is intended for. The assets of state property are not intended for politics and the demographic fund is not and must not be a sandbox of this government. Even if today's voting machine prevents people from giving their opinion, we believe that the voice of civil society will become so strong that the Government and its demographic politicians will publicly express their distrust by means of a subsequent legislative referendum. Just like he said in the Water Act. We will, of course, vote in favour of the referendum in the SAB, thereby sending a clear signal of what level of democracy our country deserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposal for a National Demographic Fund Act regulates an open case in a way that can meet expectations after a long-term stable co-financing of pension fund expenditure. In particular, the co-financing of why no alternative proposal has yet provided for the full compensation of payments from the State budget to the pension fund through the income of the demographic fund. This would also be totally unrealistic if we knew that these transfers were moving at a level of over a billion euros over the last decade. Not more than EUR 636 million in 2013 and at least EUR 965 million in 2019. Similarly, at the outset, the most perverted demagogic claim that the demographic fund and its future yields are intended to increase pensions must be rejected, why is this not its function? The capital company was established to cover the deficit in the pension and disability insurance system financed under the intergenerational exchange system. According to its content and objectives, it has acted from the very beginning as a demographic fund. Since 2000, the State budget has been obliged by law to ensure that the revenue and expenditure of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance are offset and that it is able to operate in a balanced manner. The obligation of the State to cover the difference between the income and expenditure of the institution remains in the applicable pension law. The obligation to cover the deficit is not linked to the specific rights of the public pension system, but rather to the undetermined and acceptable obligation of the state budget. The Office's seemingly balanced budget therefore poses a latent threat to the balance of the state budget. The fact that the pension system is largely dependent on the state budget also contains an important implication in terms of the idea of the demographic fund. This is largely based on the sub-use of national wealth for the purpose of financing the pension system. On the income side of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, there will be no stable resources in the future, both by content and by height. The revenue side with its own dynamics will not be able to follow the increasing cost needs. Under the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Capital Company should be transformed into an independent, autonomous demographic reserve fund by 31 December 2015. This has not happened until June 2021. The referendum issue focuses on the direct personal link between the current Prime Minister of the Government and the ambitions of meeting the staffing requirements in companies where the country has its share and the ambitions of privatising these companies. It is assumed that the term of office of the current Prime Minister of the Government will last indefinitely and that it is not limited in time. The National Demographic Fund will be an important state organisation and therefore the principles of governance that will have to be followed by managers and executives of its business policies are both fundamental, developmental and opposite. The principle of legality provides for the establishment of a demographic fund by special law. The principle of independence is reflected in legal autonomy and independence, which will be achieved only in the role of the Assembly of Shareholders. The principle of good governance and the principle of professionalism will be established through conditions that will have to be met by members of the management and control bodies. The power relationship between the legislative branch of the authorities and the executive branch of the authorities is most evident from the investment management acts. The Fund’s investment management strategy is the first and most important. Prepare the fund and send it to the Ministry of Finance, which sends it to the government. The Government shall draw up a final proposal for a strategy by way of explanation and send it to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. It shall be adopted by the national assembly by a majority of the votes of the Members present. This means that the most important act of managing the demographic fund cannot be adopted without the consent of the National Assembly. Another important document is the annual investment management plan. On the basis of the strategy adopted, it shall be prepared by the management of the Fund. The annual plan shall be agreed by the Supervisory Board by the end of November at the latest for the following calendar year. The Supervisory Board shall send an annual investment management plan to the government for approval and shall send it to the National Assembly; this is, of course, the composition of the Supervisory Board, a little later. The third important document is the investment management policy. The management must verify it at least once a year and amend it if the changed economic situation so requires. The investment management policy shall be agreed by the Supervisory Board on a proposal from the Fund's administration, by the end of November at the latest for the following financial year. In this respect, a very important document is also the corporate governance code of companies with the Fund's capital investment. It is accepted by the management, but it cannot be accepted unless the supervisory board agrees to do so. It is also possible to increase the Fund's core capital. The Republic of Slovenia may do so on a proposal from the Government, it is said, to increase or increase the core capital of the Fund. But only by the conclusion of the National Assembly can he do so. In summary, the Fund’s investment management strategy, as the most important document and an increase in the Fund’s core capital, should be approved by the National Assembly. Without the consent of the National Assembly, the government can do nothing about it. The annual investment management plan, the investment management policy and the corporate management code of the companies with the capital investment of the fund are subject to the supervisory board's approval. Without the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Fund's management cannot operate under these documents. The proposed referendum issue also implies the government's dominant influence on all business decisions to be taken by the Fund's authorities. So what are these organs of the fund? The first is the congregation. The functions and responsibilities of the congregation are exercised by the Government. The other is the supervisory council. As already mentioned, with very important powers and functions, it has 11 members, of which 7 are appointed by the National Assembly and 4 by the Government, it is said that the composition of the National Assembly prevails in the composition of the Supervisory Board. 5 are appointed by the parliamentary groups, one Association of Pensioners of Slovenia and one Youth Council of Slovenia, and it is important that the Supervisory Board is composed by competence, namely, for 4 business areas – finance, corporate governance, corporate law and liability and property management. And the third important body is the management of the fund. He has a president and two members. He's calling it the control world. However, it is important to establish the law in Article 57, which provides for the possibility that certain types of business may be managed only in agreement with the Supervisory Board. This is, of course, a matter of future relations between the administration and the supervisory council, but it is also worth stressing in this regard that the Supervisory Board has a majority of representatives of the National Assembly. The law also provides for the supervision of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors will carry out, each year, a review of the prudentity and regularity of the operation of the Fund. Imagine that someone who wants to privatize or rob the entire state property would enter into the law the provisions that the supreme state auditors and the state auditors who check his business each year. Ladies and gentlemen, the main reason for the inability to make decisions regarding an important institution such as the demographic fund is the dispersion between privatisation ambitions, between the provision of a social state and the implementation of corporate governance. It is therefore appropriate to repeat a triple lesson in corporate governance, which is not particularly difficult. Corporate practice is Achilles' fifth capitalist system, and this time it is also one of the main causes of all conflicts, for the diversity of views and the inability to create compromises. The reason is simple, all the functioning of the market economy is in fact dependent on decisions by companies and banks, on non-financial and financial decision-makers. Their noticeable deadlines decide on the operation of a market invisible deadline and corporate decisions limit the legal framework of the countries, the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders, as well as, in particular, the ethical responsibility of corporate operators and corporate management. Commitment to legal procedures and ethical conduct is crucial, in particular by respecting the golden rule that administrations and supervisory councils, as well as stakeholders, including owners, are committed to the primary development objective of the capital company, not to their own interests. Those who did not understand this lesson are very many in Slovenia, who do not understand it, to take another look at the extradition of Scottish Enlighteners and the positive corporate practice of the last half century. The main reason for the debate at the Committee on Finance was the opposition to the functions of the National Assembly in the design of bodies and the establishment of demographic fund strategies. This is due to the principle of majority decision-making as one of the bearable principles of parliamentary democracy. The greatest drawback of future decisions will be that they will be taken in accordance with the majority principle, which the applicants think is deeply wrong. We're talking about the characteristics of the method of democracy. The fundamental rules lay down different procedures for the adoption of collective decisions by means of a free debate, which is the basis for either unanimously or most decisions. According to the proposalers' position, it would obviously be necessary to change the concept of democracy from parliamentary to socialist, parliamentary versus socialist democracy. But ambiguity is artificially created and unnecessary. With socialist democracy, we have abundant experience in Slovenia, so we know that there is no difference between parliamentary democracy and socialist democracy. Just like there's no difference between a chair and an electric chair. In all the debates so far on the demographic fund, three key parameters have been highlighted, which cannot be reached by consensus, but will need to take a decision on the basis of a majority principle, namely the size and structure of the core capital, the time of accumulation and the use of future returns. And these economic categories are supposed to be decided by voters and voters in a referendum with simple pros or cons. The ability to rationalise objectively is thus left to populist interpretations and all sorts of lies, so such a thing is completely unrealistic. Members of the Desus Group have individual views on matters relating to the demographic fund and, in accordance with our own individual views, we will also vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, everyone have a good day! Today, on the last day of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which began last week, we decide on the proposal of Levice, LMŠ, SD and SAB that the National Assembly for the Government's Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund should hold a consultative referendum. [[Incomprehensible]] The proposal, which provides that the national demographic fund would be created by reshaping the Slovenian state holding company and taking over the management of almost all state investments, according to the proponents, does not solve the financing of pensions, but allows the government or the current authorities to recruit and manage state-owned assets indefinitely in state-owned enterprises. The legislative procedure for the draft law cannot be initiated by a third examination of the bill until it decides whether or not to call a consultative referendum. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we remind the ruling coalition that this year is not only going to be a year of crisis due to the fight against the epidemic of communicable diseases of COVID-19, mass protests, political crises, but also a year of referendums. As you know, after more than three years since the last referendum on 11 July, I will return to the referendum on the recently adopted Law on Water. The referendum called for some 60,000 voters and voters to draw attention to disputed and under-explained provisions of Article 37 of the Act allowing for interventions on water and coastal land. This time, too, the government and the government coalition are repeating the same mistake, with even worse consequences for their actions. From the breakdown of dialogue to the departure of the establishment of the demographic fund. [[Incomprehensible]] In this case, the government did not wish to engage in broader discussions and negotiations with all key stakeholders, both at the time of preparation before the adoption of the bill in government and not in the context of the hearing in the National Assembly. It is true that this government coalition is the first to formulate a long-awaited bill by setting up a demographic fund that has been the promise of each coalition since 2012 and has also sent it into the legislative process. The current government and the ruling coalition are thus proposing that the national demographic fund created by the transformation of the Slovenian state holding company and the accession would take over the management of almost all state investments and replace the managers so far. In one place, they would also simplify and expect the government to improve the management of state investments, and resources would use the demographic fund in part for the current transfer to the pension fund, partly for the accumulation of funds, including through investments in new investments, and in part for long-term care and family policies. The fund is intended to be independent and autonomous in the management of investments. Its work would be based on the fund's investment management strategy, which would be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, which will replace the State Investment Management Strategy in 2015. Each year we would then adopt an annual investment management plan. The Fund would have a three-member administration, with the appointment of temporary management and 11 member supervisory boards 15 days after the law was enacted. 7 supervisors would be appointed by the National Assembly, 5 on a proposal from the parliamentary groups, 1 on a proposal from the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia and one on a proposal from the Youth Council of Slovenia, and 4 members would be appointed by the Government. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we would point out that we all agree that the expected demographic changes or ageing of the population will have a negative impact on public finances, especially on the pension fund, with indirect and direct impact on the state budget. We have therefore committed ourselves to establishing a specific demographic fund to respond to these public financial challenges of demographic change. Therefore, the government and coalition insistence on ignoring key stakeholders in the social partners seems inappropriate, as this proposal would result in a similar fate to that of previous mandates and its re-admission for several years. The Economic and Social Council, however, took note of the bill. It was also addressed on several occasions by the negotiating group, but the debate remained at the level of conceptual issues, as there was considerable disagreement between the social partners and the government on the proposals of the articles themselves or of individual, in particular disputed solutions, and in the course of in-depth discussions and not negotiations. The Law was presented to the Economic and Social Council twice in October and November last year, and the ESS negotiating group, after the legislative process started and continued in the National Assembly, took the view that they did not want to continue the debate on individual articles, since, after transmission of the draft law to the National Assembly, the ESS is no longer a central place for dialogue with the social partners and Members are not obliged to pursue the negotiating process and are not bound to support negotiated solutions, which has already been done in the past as well as this time. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, although some of our members have supported the proposed solutions, we agree that the adoption of a legal provision or solution does not simply follow the basic purpose of the demographic fund. This is co-financing of compulsory pension and disability insurance. The bill is widely proposed and primarily represents a political compromise between coalition partners. The latter is evident from the solutions that led to the transfer and unification of the management of state assets, both real estate and capital investments managed by the company with the management of bank claims, DSUs and the real estate fund of the PIS and capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, with certain exceptions, which was the express request of the SDS party. The planned co-financing of policy concerns older and family policies on the proposal of NSI. Unpaid transfer of capital investments ZPIS Insurance Company Triglav on a proposal by Desus and modification of the organisation of supervision and management with a stand-by procedure worth SMC. In fact, in the first and last instance, only a political compromise was presented most openly by the representative of the Desus Group in the following words: "In the Desus Group, we understand the bill as a compromise between the previous proposals, which have all experienced the same fate in order, whether they have not come into the legislative process or not. We estimate that prudent political action is precisely in the search for and making compromises, so we will support the draft law on the National Demographic Fund for the most part." (The end of the quote.) As you know, before the previous government, Desus insisted on two fundamental axioms, from which he did not withdraw until December last year. In particular, it requested only the transfer of the Capital Company to the demographic fund and the 20-year accumulation period, with the negotiation of capital capital or the transfer of capital investments to the fund, both from the country and from SDH. In view of all of this, it can be clear to us that present solutions are not most appropriate to ensure a safe age, neither the current generation of pension and disability beneficiaries nor the next generation. We probably all agree that the national demographic fund will not be able to cover the majority of the annual budget transfer to a pension fund of around €1.2 billion. However, it should at least partially cover an additional increase in this burden in the coming years. However, given the diversity of the investment portfolio, by requiring the active co-management of capital investments, it is worth noting that the national demographic fund will also be able to finance or provide funds for the recapitalisation of individual state-owned enterprises. It will also have to finance a number of policies that touch older people and families, which should already be financed by the state budget, such as building homes for older people and could still be listed. In addition, it is worth noting that it is only from the relations provided for by the law that the national demographic fund will provide two thirds of the money for current consumption and only 40% for accumulation or investment in so-called portfolio capital investments, which will provide the only contribution to the financing of the pension fund. Not to mention that SDH still has compensation obligations. Therefore, it is entirely legitimate to ask whether such solutions actually follow the basic purpose of the demographic fund, as set out in Article 8 of the ZPIS-2, which states: “The compulsory insurance is financed by insurers, employers and the Republic of Slovenia. Compulsory insurance shall also be financed from the demographic reserve fund and other resources provided for by this Act.” In the Group of Non-Related Members, we also point out that the proposed solutions are not only dissatisfied with employees' representatives, but also employers who have assessed that because of the strong impact of the policy, the proposed solutions do not follow the estimated long-term needs of the pension fund and will barely respond to the expected increase in burdens due to the coordination of pensions. It is true that the ruling coalition, together with the Minister of Finance, has listened to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia and some other stakeholders, as it has complemented, in its second reading, more than 50 with regard to responsibility and supervision of management, selection procedures and could also be listed. But there have been no changes in fundamental issues. As regards the organisation of the management and management of investments, the provision of additional funding resources, the time spent or the accumulation of funds before their use, the size of the fund's assets, and the purpose and payment of the fund in future periods. It is not surprising, therefore, that many experts also point out that it is pointless, that the government coalition insists stubbornly on meeting the commitment under the coalition agreement, which is only a reflection of old marriages, and that they want better solutions to be made, and that the debate on the fund should move away from who and how it will control this fund, and the question of what the purpose of this fund should be, what assets have and, above all, how to fill it. Even some of us unrelated Members have already warned coalition partners that the National Demographic Fund cannot be a project of this government or a ruling coalition, but it must also attract those stakeholders to whom or to whom the Fund is intended in the future. The proposed solutions must therefore be pursued through appropriate social dialogue. The fact that we have for the first time taken seriously the establishment of a national demographic fund and that it is a good year before the end of our term of office must not be an excuse for rushing or pecking commitments under the coalition treaty. In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members, the ruling coalition is reminded that both employees and trade unions, as employers, have long been lacking in social dialogue, and we urge it to listen to the President of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia Lidija Jerkič, who recently called on the Government to awaken the social dialogue with the following words, quote: "We are ready to return to the negotiating table when there is something going on at the negotiating table. There's nothing on the negotiating table right now. I already said today that the government has taken us to the basement, but no, it's in the government, not only on Minister Brickler King, to bring this chair back and bring legislation that needs to be dealt with in the Economic and Social Council. [[Incomprehensible]] The first duty is to press the button for the early consultation referendum next week in the National Assembly. This will show the willingness to consider the pension fund again.”, end of quote. Otherwise, employees' representatives in the event of the adoption of the law have already announced the initiation of procedures for obtaining the required at least 40,000 signatures of the electorate and electorate to apply for the call for a subsequent legislative referendum, and we are confident that it will succeed as they will also be able to convince a sufficient number of voters and voters to refuse each in the referendum. If the ruling coalition does not listen to all calls, it will have to take responsibility for this mandate, and even if we are ahead of the target line, we will not get the demographic fund. Therefore, we will support the proposal to call for an informal referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u24	Hello! Nice to meet you all in state. The aim of the proposal for a consultation referendum on the adoption of the draft Law on the National Demographic Fund is to bring down the Government and there is no other proposal. The destruction of the government as we have been used to since the very beginning of which some in the opposition have thrown a rifle into the corn and left the leadership of the country, but that phrase will no longer be so wasted I suggest that instead of corn we take the word “runkl”, in Prlekia we call it pork tail, so it will be easier. The goal is to raise political points, own propaganda, malignment of the government, and certainly not concern for Slovenian pensioners as they wish to present. Before they were in power, they were not able to enforce the law on the demographic fund on their own, but now that the real thing is going on, they are picking up political points. The pension fund needs to be unloaded, as it will be said that it will die. Slovenia is the third on the European scale where its population is the fastest to age. According to United Nations projections, Slovenia is ranked among the 10 oldest countries in the world and 1 out of every 5 inhabitants is over 65. In 2030, the proportion of these people will represent as much as 25% of the population, and by 2050 every third person in Slovenia will be over 65. The Slovenian pension system will not be able to ensure long-term sustainability because of the growing active population. Pension security contributions already paid do not provide sufficient funds for the payment of all pensions and the difference must be replaced by the State from its budget. We all agree, left and right, that we must give our oldest relatives a decent life because they deserve it in the final stages. However, since the pension fund is unsustainable in the long term, it needs to be restructured or financed. The transformation of our national silver into a national demographic fund is an excellent solution to achieve this goal, and thus the criticism of this is merely a re-emergence of the Government. Funds will be invested in favour of co-financing of compulsory pension insurance and co-financing of policies for the care of the elderly. In the opposition, they want to present this to their electoral base again as something undemocratic, untransparent and even harmful to the pensioners. It talks about privatisation, about interference with the rule of law, as we are used to doing now, almost every good proposal. Since it is not the object of the opposition's concern for the pensioners, but the re-destruction of all good, we will not support such destructive proposals in the SNS. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u25	Thank you. Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u26	Thank you very much for the president's words. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government and all those who accompany this meeting are warmly greeted! On 2 March 2021, a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec submitted a proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of a draft law on the national demographic fund, in which they read out the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to adopt a proposal for a national demographic fund law in a non-transparent manner without social dialogue and without public discussion centralisation over ownership and management of state property. Of course, all these eyewitnesses don't hold. The fact that the proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the law on the national demographic fund is not admissible and why we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we can also draw on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly at the very beginning. In its opinion, the legislative and legal service has clearly and unequivocally stated that one of the essential requirements for the referendum is a clear and clear referendum question, since the electorate can only express his right to vote so clearly and without question as to why he is actually giving his vote. Voters make a preliminary statement in the consultation referendum on a specific clear question, not a legal act, which the motioners have actually written in the first part of the referendum issue. Even more misleading is the second part of the referendum issue in which proposers speak on the policy of the government of Janez Janša. As also stated by the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed referendum issue in the second part is unclear and misleading, which as such must not be the subject of a call for an advisory referendum. It is urgent to note that the Slovenian policy, through the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Slovenian State Holding Act in 2013 and 2014 has undertaken to regulate the operation and financing of the demographic reserve fund, since it means that the current coalition meets only what the previous governments have been committed to, and that they have no more than apparently been able to realize. The candidates for the call for an advisory referendum in their proposal are very misleading, which unfortunately is becoming a permanent practice of the current opposition in the National Assembly. One of the indications and reasons for the proposed referendum on the law on national demographics is that the law was sent to the National Assembly without in-depth public debate and without coordination in the Economic and Social Council. And the facts are as follows. In the course of the last years, several different laws have been introduced in the National Assembly to regulate the area of individual parliamentary groups, which means that the in-depth debate has been taking place since 2013 when they were adopted already mentioned in the Pension Insurance Act and the Slovenian State Holding Act. Nor does it argue that members of the Economic and Social Council had no opportunity to participate in the drafting of the bill itself. According to the government, the draft law was presented to them for the first time at the 5th meeting. Ten. 2020, and then at several future meetings of the Economic and Social Council and working meetings, whose representatives of trade unions have not attended or left them unilaterally, reflecting their genuine interest in cooperation, for the common good of our country. At the same time, these presentations have only taken place within the various round tables, and the bill has also been supported at a meeting of the State Council. In addition, as much as possible, all the good and meaningful proposals of the various stakeholders were taken into account in the consideration in the National Assembly. The proposal's proponents' claim to call for a consultation referendum that the national demographic fund does not solve the problem of pension financing and will have no positive impact on the income of the pension fund and the very amount of pensions are unrealistic and pronounced without any serious grounds and misleading. The claim that the law will not solve the problem of pension financing poses an assumption which is not legally relevant in this case, since this area is regulated by the law on pension and disability insurance. The National Demographic Fund Act is not the main source of funding for pensions but is an additional source of funding. The White Paper on pensions in 2016 clearly states that the establishment of a reserve demographic fund must not be an excuse for not changing the pension system in the future, but at the same time the purpose of the demographic fund should only be to relieve the pension system. In other words, the amount of pensions has never been subject to the National Demographic Fund Act, but the proposal for a law extends to the area of co-financing of the regular payment of pensions. In addition, in the National Demographic Fund Act, emphasis is also placed on co-financing policies for older and family policies. With regard to the applicant's claim that the Government, by means of the National Demographic Fund Act, is increasing the opportunities for recruitment and privatisation, it is necessary to say the following. The proposal for a national demographic fund law contains the same solutions for reducing the share of state ownership below 50%, as is now the case in the Slovenian State Holding Act. In addition, the National Demographic Fund Act introduces a provision whereby investments in which the State has at least 50 % of ownership may also be classified as strategic investments. It is also important to note that, according to the proposal of the law, the possibility of appointing fund supervisors will have both the Government and the National Assembly, as well as the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Alliance of Retired Persons, which represents a clear progress towards the current regime when all supervisors are submitted by the Government for confirmation of the National Assembly. With regard to the recruitment of state-owned companies, the mirror must be placed primarily by the opposition, since the other Janšev government, when adopting the Slovenian State Holding Act, incorporated into the law a provision whereby the opposition had the right to appoint one supervisory member of the Slovenian State Holding Company. Shortly after the government of Alenka Bratušek, this provision was removed from the law, which means that from the government of Alenka Bratušek further, the Government proposes all members of the supervisory board. On the basis of everything, we can find that the National Demographic Fund Act represents clear progress in the management of state ownership, which will provide transparent, secure and profitable management of assets, while at the same time it will be easier to pursue common business objectives and the revenues from these investments will be directed towards present and future generations of pensioners and the implementation of family policy measures. In their explanation, the proposers of the proposal for a consultation referendum are re-misleading the Slovenian public, while at the same time advocating an extension of the current status, a dispersion of the management of state property, which does not bring about what we could create with this property. We will not support the proposals for the call for an advisory referendum in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as we advocate a more efficient management and an additional source of funding for the pension fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the Proposal for an Advisory Referendum. Before I give my word to the proposer, let me put it in order, according to individual listings. So, according to the proposaler, Violet Tomić, then Marko Bandelli, mag. Diane Jedhan. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u28	Thank you very much and very much. I would like to respond to a few things that we have heard in the positions of the groups of Members. First, it is obvious that the question of referendum is a tendency and that this second part of the referendum question imposes some interpretation. My position is reversed. The introductory interpretation is that this thing that we have on the table is even called the Demographic Fund Act. Actually, it's not a law that regulates, in any way, demographics. This fund, as some representatives of coalition types have said, will have no impact on pensions in Slovenia. Not even the euro will be added to the pension allowance, because mathematics is completely simple. Currently, according to the plan, €170 million will be made this year for the profits of state-owned enterprises in the budget, and from there these funds can be used for things such as pensions, family policy, home building for the elderly. Now that this same money will come into the budget from the demographic fund, in short, the euro will not be added and no pension in this country will be higher for the euro, nor will it be higher for the family policy, because 10% of the 170 million is 17 million, and family policy currently costs the country 600 million and the country has some legal obligations to fund there and so on. In short, nothing will change in this sense how much money we have, how much it is about demographics and so on. On the other hand, I hope that if we adopt this bill, which will have very bad effects on the governance of state-owned enterprises on transparency and transparency, on the competence of the people who perform these functions, we will have problems with demographics on the other hand. According to the latest data I found on the Internet, 126 people move out of Slovenia per week, which means about 15,000 per year. Many of these are Slovenian citizens, many of whom are young because they do not get the chance. Then we have a problem who is currently receiving functions in state-owned companies. Anton Krkovich, we know his history of friendship with the current Prime Minister, was a general, a major and so on. Is there something going on right now? We read he promotes the sun and energy at Gen-I. What competence does it have to answer for yourself? Dimitri Rupel, we also know his long history. He says that he is not interested in books or in publishing books, but he has become director of the Public Book Agency, with what competences do you answer for yourself. Tomaž Kokot, 33 years old, his reference: he has failed to run for mayor of Poljčan twice, and is the third largest owner of the New House, publisher of Nova 24, became the Director General of Post Slovenia, who has, beware, a company that has more employees than Poljčane, where he has unsuccessfully run for mayor of the population. These are practices that will break apart if the Demographic Fund Act, the so-called demographic fund, is adopted. It's a fund, but it's a fund for political recruitment not for demographics. This is a fund where the government will have the opportunity to put four supervisors on its own, five set up by coalition parties, two put coalition parties on a proposal from civil society. These appoint three members of the board of directors and none of them are committed to Laholovnik's law anymore, the real wages will be unlimited, as far as they can lay, but they will have completely free hands to whom they name in state companies, and I believe that the appetite is considerable. This government loses the majority in the National Assembly, fears that elections may be near, talks about a certain bond of confidentiality and so on, and it would be very good to now push a few 100 people into state-owned positions, because power is not only in the government, but also those or, unfortunately, those who control the flow of money in this country have power. So when we talk about the demographic fund we have to follow the money, we have to follow the principle of "fall the money", but this "roll the money" is not "roll the money" from the demographic fund to the pension fund, because there we have a zero-sum game there, what is now pouring out of the budget will be new from the demographic fund. However, money and money flows need to be followed when we talk about who, in whose name and in whose interest state assets will be managed in a new way. That is why we insist that this referendum should be held, because this law that we have before us has been done practically without public debate to remind us that even when we had the Committee on Finance at first reading of this law there was no representative of civil society present, not because we would not want to come, but because we should not have come. Then, in the opposition, we had to call on the Commission to oversee public finances, so that we could even hear what the public, the public concerned about this mass law, and think nothing good, because it has the exact same concerns as those we express in the opposition that the result for pensions will be zero, the result for the innovative political personnel who would like to meet a well-paid place in state-owned companies, and of course very positive.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Before continuing the debate, I would like to ask you to concentrate on the content of the referendum question. As far as recruitment is concerned, it is not every hobby of a salad grower that you can give to the director of any state office, nor any Ahmed that you have granted him the status. Now we continue the debate. First Violeta Tomić, behind her Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. With the opening warning, we can hope for a lot of intervention in our discussions. But I will start in spite of everything with the statement I stand for – evil has metastasized in our country. After what we have seen with the destruction of the media landscape and subordination, we are now witnessing that this existing government, the government of Janez Janša, would like to subordinate the last remnants of state property. Of course, power is where the money is, as my fellow moon said. And we missed a lot of opportunities to stop and prevent too many bad practices, because money is power regardless of the origin of that money. But "roll the money" is really important, and you need to know and see. Not to mention Bell One, Bell Two, job losses, sales and so on. We all know how much our people, working people, have suffered from too many bad measures. The Hand always explains that property is untouchable. Let me remind you that the property of state-owned companies is our common property. And property is untouchable and citizens must therefore decide what to do with their property. You cannot take ownership of someone else and allow yourself to manage it without any control of the owner, because the government is not the master of Slovenia and the owner is the current manager. And here, you see, we're not clear. Let's get one more thing straight and pour ourselves some clean wine. The government of Janez Janša by establishing the demographic fund does not care about pensioners - this is manipulation and lies, dots, and I also stand for this - but it cares only for itself and its capital interests. The question of the demographic fund must not be a political struggle to control state property, as the government will centralise the capital investments of the state to ensure that most state assets are no longer owned by the Republic of Slovenia, but rather owned by the parastatal institution, under its direct control. Because we've also seen what's going on with the media, and let me remind you again and again. The concentration of state property in the hands of the Government of Janez Janša creates serious risks, both for the fulfilment of the strategic interests of the State and for our public finances. As a result of the damaging decisions of this Government, Janez Janša will thus become one of the most expensive infrastructure projects in the country hostage to the political and capital interests of Hungarian Prime Minister Orban and related economic elites. I'm talking about 2TKK. The Republic of Slovenia will provide profit, with public taxes paid by Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways and our carriers, on which Hungary is accounted, while they will not contribute anything except the initial investment. Nevertheless, for 35 years Hungary will become co-owner of critical Slovenian infrastructure and thus gain a veto on all important decisions of 2TKK. In addition, it will use an additional 30,000 square metres of land owned by Luke Koper, thus repaying all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia the debt of Janez Janša to Viktor Orbán for support, financial support in his media and elections. In short, it is daring to claim that the current Government is an enforcer of foreign capital and political interests, and that it is working instead for the long-term development of Slovenian society, working solely for its own self-preservation and after me a flood. Such a demographic fund, as the Government has envisioned, will not be a fund for the management of state property, but will be a fund for the sale of social property. And there is a risk that the current important investments will degrade to portfolio level, which would mean that the fund would have a completely free hand in privatising companies that are defined as important in the country's current capital investment management strategy, for example, Krka and Petrol. Now I want to know how you imagine Victor Orbán giving us our pensions. No, he won't give it to us. And with the establishment of the demographic fund, there will be a long-term legal void, be careful that the fund, once established, allows one annual business to pass by every security guard against privatisation and this one year Janez Janša needs, needs. Then it doesn't matter, because then the elections will probably no longer have power, but this year it can destroy all state property, because the fund will have free hands all this time in the privatisation of public property. In short, since this Demographic Fund Act provides that 40% of the purchases from the sale of state property will be made by the GOI, the Government will, of course, continue to pretend, as from the beginning, that privatisation is in the interest of pensioners, to provide additional funds for the pension fund. Otherwise, such logic is very short-sighted, as privatisation may indeed increase the revenues of the state budget and have a long-term negative impact on public treasury, as it reduces the government's revenue from the country's capital investment returns. In no case can privatisation purchases be and must not be one of the main sources of pension fund financing, we cannot sell everything in short and thus ensure that there is a once-sold shortfall. Long-term pensions are provided with better jobs, higher added value, better paid, of course also contributions resulting in higher and, of course, the fight against leniency, regular employment, etc. In short, representatives of representative trade unions also pointed out that the demographic fund provides all leverages for the implementation and supervision of the Fund to political parties and to the Government and does not ensure the involvement of employees whose social security is expected to provide this fund at the time of age. The Assembly is the same Government and the representatives of workers are completely excluded from the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board and this Government, you know, who is always talking about some kind of cooperation, is not listening to anyone. She completely excluded the opposition from the debate, excluded social dialogue, excluded the Economic and Social Council, but the people, you know, will not be able to exclude it, so we absolutely support the referendum and we will do everything possible to reach it, because the owner will decide on his property and the owner will know who he is, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli's got the word, and he's gonna get the word "magic." Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Much has already been said about what we have debated about the Fund itself. Now we are here, a respected government and a respected coalition, including all of them. I'm sure you too know that everything that is being accepted in this National Assembly is not right. It is not right because it is practically accepted by the majority and is largely voted on many occasions, especially now that you are a minority coalition. Thank you to a unique person who gives you support with certain “opposite”, among the notes, the parties, is being voted on many times. That was one of those, too. That is why we are now considering this option here. I do not think that the call for this consultation is a good one, nor is it binding, at the final stage. But I think that if I said so, there might be a mirror for the government to see what people think of her. See for yourself what it is, whether it's right or wrong, what it's doing now. For me, and not just for me, for others, I'm sure we're calling it an unrealistic national demographic fund. It's not, you know it isn't. Throughout the whole procedure, you put it practically without public hearing, through social and intergenerational dialogue, it is said, without anything, on your own. By voting, of course, you have achieved all this. And you're probably afraid of people. You're afraid of the opinions of people, honest people, what they think. Because some still believe that name, the demographic fund. That's a totally wrong name, that name has nothing to do with what's being prepared here. Obviously, you don't want it because you're afraid of people. On Friday, 40,000 people made it clear that the government should go home. I think that this was a very clear message that it is not working properly and that it is destroying the country and the Republic. That was a message from these people. Now, of course, you all stick to these chairs for some reason or other. Basically, the establishment of this fund, which would somehow be -- I see it as some kind of government portfolio, if you say so. And that's all right, I agree with that, it could work. But you know what it is – the guards are missing. The guards are missing in all of this. Those guards are missing, which is why they have now come forward with a proposal for a consultation referendum. From the very beginning, we have always debated what might happen to this property. You know, we'll be practical – you will, not me, you will, because you're on the government and this will stay on forever. You'll allow practical looting, literal looting of state-owned companies, that's a hundred percent. By 100% you will allow the dismantling of this control system, as it is now, because it will no longer be, and management, because it will be completely different. You will probably allow free hands to sell all 8.4 billion as much as this entire fund is worth, if you say so, to replace the set of supervisors at the moment, because this is also the goal of all of this – to get it all together at some point so that you can work and manage from the top. You can't do this right now. Especially by guaranteeing jobs for those who have a card. That's it. So it happened over a thousand jobs that they now received within a year, and we don't even know where you put these people everywhere. But, look, this is the thing we're gonna get to next. But the worst thing I think is that it will be allowed, I think that this fund will fund completely different things than those that make it seem and with a trick, if you say so, to your colleagues in Desus, because they know exactly, they themselves know that there won't be enough money for everyone. The pension fund itself won't be there, we know that. Therefore, personally and even in the Sab party, we absolutely support this referendum, because this law is harmful, we ourselves know that. It's harmful to a country that's harmful to citizens, harmful to everyone. This property must remain the property of the State, there is no other option, it must remain the property of the State. These funds, which are to be accumulated here, must be devoted exclusively to pensions. That would be the point. [[Incomprehensible]] Here I'd understand your machinations here, wouldn't I? We could accumulate funds for 20 years without touching them if it were to be the right procedure for us to get to one of the funds we need. Not that we're going to do everything else with these resources now and just say it's "pensions" when we know you're painting them ourselves, it seems strange to me how to fall for it. [[Incomprehensible]] However, additional resources should be provided. If you do not provide additional resources in this context, if we call it this fund, what it is, it will be nothing. We've put you in the SAB proposal about water, about wood and this thing here, I don't know if you've even begun to think about it. I am the first, even if I am an entrepreneur, to say the truth, that I am the first to support one proposal that I have seen expressed somehow to raise the percentage of contributions by at least 3 to 4%, the part that goes into the burden of the employer, and I think that is right, because otherwise we who are going to retire will get nothing, because the fund will not, because it is no fund, this demographic fund, because if we want it to work and that it works, must have some regular, untouchable accumulation, it must have, because otherwise it will not be anything. According to your plan and according to your strategy, this fund is set up only for free supervision and management, practically, and in my opinion, some smooth divestment of the taxpayer's silver, if we have it,. [[Incomprehensible]] I am sure of what you will “machine” and how “machine” will be done. We'll see what happens then, right, because you won't always be in the government. [[Incomprehensible]] Now we know what's going on and what's going on, right? It can also be a good purpose, but you know, the purpose is good at that moment that someone here imagines, but, after it comes into the twisted hands or different hands or those that have other manipulative desires in the background, with this wealth to manage and what it is, then the third branches come out, which then we know exactly where they're going, and here is our fear, that's our fear. You know, it's not just fear of us. I think it's a lot of people, including others, of your kind, because I've already spoken to yours. Not everyone, not everyone, is for what it takes, but you know, they're used to pushing the button the way it's supposed to be. Then a burning conscience can make them another day, which. [[Incomprehensible]] I'll get it over with. I think that Desus is also aware of this, not that it has more meaning of “so-called”, this word is a demographic word that pleases him very much, than the real purpose of this fund is what it is. I would say so to all respectable colleagues here, that you do not possess a Flossule and especially to these flossules by this law, which I think is the only right thing to support and that people also tell their own, given that they are not obliged, not binding, is not bound by this referendum, at least that the Government sees what people think, already when you are convinced that you do not know any majority even among the people, let them understand once that you do not have it and that there are plenty of people who understand it with their head, the procedure as you have assumed it is wrong and especially harmful for the country and citizens. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Jedhan, and he's going to be discussing Jura Ferrian. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Once again, warmly greeted Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, nice greetings! In order to understand each other, we in Slovenia now have some form of a demographic fund, this capital company, which is definitely true for the first time, the first mistake is to spend money on pension transfers at the moment when it should save money for the demographic hole, when it will indeed run out. The second mistake is that there are too few inflows. I would understand that we would do anything to find additional inflows, as has already been said a million times today, from natural resources, we have no oil, we do not have - what I know - gas and so on, we still have water, that is, from a certain proportion of water and from our great wealth, it is from the forest, from the wood, and in fact that we have significantly more money to draw from the management of capital investments. We must not forget that, despite everything, we have the management of capital investments, it is not as we would like, especially when we look at it in essence, at times the feeling that it does not matter whether a person knows, but it is only important whether the person from this right direction is from the right party and so on. Me, I have to say, I don't mind that someone who manages property is also a party member, but that can't be the reason to manage it. The only reason must be that it is competent, and that from the assets it receives, it creates what the state needs, more profits and I would like this profit to go largely to the demographic fund, because now it goes to some very small extent, in fact. We therefore have a management strategy at this point. I wish that one day the return would be the same as it is in France or elsewhere where they have high returns and then make these contributions in a way that benefits citizens and citizens, but not in the ongoing use of a specific budget, is some kind of solace. This concrete proposal, which is before us today, is simply a cowardly egg. It follows from the name that those who are already and especially who will become pensioners can imagine that they will be safer in 20 years when the demographic crisis is severe, but in fact this material before us does not allow it at all. This does not allow anything at all, and the address is purely mere deception. That's not okay. Citizens and citizens of this beautiful country have been given too much seduction by politics so far and are continuing to do so. It is important to make it very clear that it is not on the table how to get the additional resources that we will put on a stack and, if possible, will be managed by those who are most interested, and these are currently employees, young people and pensioners. It would be great to manage them in such a way that they would all be in charge, as would theoretically be given either by the Court of Auditors or by anyone else who has general confidence and will then be released when it is really necessary for us to maintain the system of solidarity, the Bismarck system. But it's completely different here. Here it goes that, in fact, there are no new sources, but what is currently being spent is still being accelerated for current consumption. And this is such a serious deception that our citizens and citizens should simply not do this to them. and that's just enough reason to give citizens and citizens the opportunity to present themselves all the time, of course, with arguments to decide whether to want, I don't want to, I suppose, but citizens and citizens must be able to say at the referendum that they don't want what we have now to be accelerated consumption and not accumulate for the crisis period that will come. I know that the tragedy of this Parliament is also that in a year's time they are elected, then in five years' time, and that just too few people want to think about what will happen in 10 or 20 years' time, but it is also a political duty. It is the policy's duty to make our people safe in 20 years when they need a stable pension. And then it's cheating, because we're doing it through the demographic fund, so that's not it. What is being adopted today can be called whatever, but it can't be called a demographic fund because it's not. There are no new sources, no closures and no accumulations for the time when we're gonna need money, but there's something. When I spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group, I said what are the reasons why we as Social Democrats think you are doing this, but even when I think about political reasons, the substantive reason is only one, we look at this concrete paper and ask ourselves whether pensioners and pensioners will be more secure in 15 or 20 years from now because of this paper you want to be accepted by the National Assembly. And you have to answer honestly, like all the Slovenian experts who have looked at it. They will not be safer, they will be less safe than they are at the moment and this must be a sufficient reason to withdraw the paper and that, in agreement with those who are most interested, they are trade unions, and if you admit it or not, trade unions represent employees. Trade unions represent employees, and if we were to develop a country, anyone from the 1990s here would invite people who have not yet joined the unions to join. You can laugh about it however you want, nothing Yugoslav, in Slovenian trade unions, we are in Slovenia so that no one forgets. Join the Slovenian trade unions because Slovenian trade unions represent your interests as employees, you are stronger if someone represents you as if you are fighting for your own interests. And the paper in front of us is not in line with the Slovenian unions. If it is a demographic fund, that should be the final reason to withdraw immediately, but not immediately. It is clear to me that if you do not allow this form of referendum to go today, after a while the second form of the referendum will take place. And wasted time. Wasted time because we really have to make a better demographic fund than we have now. And I'll just say it again, and then I'll shut up. More money is needed so that in 20 years, those who sit here with their chests will not point to us: they are guilty of being such a big hole and we do not know how to fill our pension bills to fulfill what is our duty, that is to say, to pay our pensions. Second, to close the demographic fund. And for the third time, to keep policy as far away from the management of this fund as possible. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jura Ferjan and will be discussed by Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u36	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Honourable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and Honourable Director-General at the Directorate of Public Property. Dear Members, honourable Members and all those who accompany us are most warmly greeted! The proposal for a national demographic fund law provides for uniform, transparent and effective control and management of state property. It also brings lower costs of managing state assets and, which is very important, brings, or means, a long-term source of funding for pensions. And the distinguished left opposition, your fear is not in what you see in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, exactly the opposite. Your fear is in what I just said, in what this marriage brings. And this is simply a loss of your privileges, a fear of changes that would or would bring benefits to all citizens and citizens. What I just said confirms the very fact that we are not only witnessing today, but, in fact, the whole time we're talking about the bill on the National Demographic Fund. I have a feeling that the parties that you are now in the opposition, that the more often you have been in the government, the more you fight today, that this law must not be, that we must go to the referendum, that we must, I do not know what else to do. Today you are speaking exactly those parties of today's left opposition, the previous coalition party, the government party, and not only in the previous term, but also in many cases, when you had power and authority, when you had scissors and canvas, or, in some other way, I can use any other parable, you failed to prepare the law or you didn't want it to be harmonised, bring it into Parliament, bring it through parliamentary procedure and do things the way you imagined. Today, though, in the past, in recent months, we have been following counsel, instruction, and wisdom, so we can say, however we take it, what should be done. And on your part we also get, of course, what you know best in all this time, demolition. You know that better than anyone. You've proved that a number of times. And from this we can simply say that it turns out that in fact it is your only goal, that there is no change and that your privileges are maintained. Respected and respected! Because much has already been said and because we are actually talking today about the proposal for a call for an advisory referendum, let me just say this in the concluding part of the debate. Today there was also a kind of thesis that this government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have a mandate for such changes. So, for changes such as the draft law on the National Demographic Fund. Respected and respected! The Slovenian Democratic Party has a programme and we went to the elections with this programme. We presented the programme in more detail in 2018 before the national elections, as we always do before the elections. As we all know, the current composition of the National Assembly is, of course, a reflection of these elections, and the Slovenian Democratic Party has certainly won these elections. So the Slovenian Democratic Party's programme has won decisively and this government has a programme and this government coalition has a coalition treaty that it implements. This government works, unlike a lot of people in front of it. And that obviously hurts a lot. And I'll have two more intermesses before I can finish. We've heard about unions before. See, unions that oppose wage increases, unions that do not want social dialogue, unions that represent their interests, not the interests of workers, thank you for such unions. And there's another intermesia about the protests you're talking about. Look, 40,000 of them were gone, we all know that. There were probably 10,000, 15,000 of them somewhere, whatever. You're making some kind of message. You know what the message is, because there was nothing concrete if you listened to statements by protestors and protestors, because they said nothing concrete. Who is the organizer of these protests, the illegal, the undeclared? But we know the unions and the parties to the left opposition. Let us report, let us organize, let us do what is decent according to the letter of the law. And the key message of these protests, do you know what it is? It is mockery from all citizens and citizens of this country, who for more than a year have been consistently following measures and especially from all those who face daily and help patients with covid-19 this is the main message of these protests, and this is the message and the personification of what you have been doing in the left of the opposition in the last year, overthrowing this government regardless of the consequences. Respected and respected, I will not support the proposal for an advisory referendum, according to what has been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Moon's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u38	Thank you very much. My predecessor spoke of some privileges that should be lost if this law were to be passed. Here I need to be very clear if you find me one person left in any state-owned company, I'm resigning from my position if you find me one when you talk about these privileges. Second. The only privilege I have or am fighting for is that I was born in a country as meritocratic as it was, if you are interested in some abilities, you can do something in this country. However, I do not want to live in a country where capable people have to leave positions for political reasons, but various Krkovići, Rupli, Bavčar, unsuccessful candidates for mayors and vice-presidents of parties who say they are against the recruitment of state-owned companies. No, but we don't want to live in a country like this. And this is a privilege that I want to defend, this is a basic meritocracy, and this is threatened by this law, because when this law is passed, there will be only a handful of real political colors in state companies. You want to live in a country like this? Not me. And that's why I took part in protests on Friday, not as an organiser, but as a supporter of the protest message, this government is the one that is destroying this country and that is why this government has to leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Replica, Jure Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Moon, let's say Branimir Struckle, so quickly, something else would probably happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Look, I'd like to ask you not to talk about different ones and different ones, the criteria probably meet, if they're named, if they're not, you can start a procedure and I won't allow denials in the debates, and I won't let the proposalr not. That's it. Now let's get on with it. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. And she'll get the word Masha Kociper after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u42	Thank you, Vice President. Now, if we have learned anything in this good year of government, it is that this government is fighting people and I think it is visible and very clear in every protest, in every expression of disagreement, at every announcement of such or other referendum. We've seen this story in the purchase of weapons, we've seen this story in the Water Act, and we see this story in the Demographic Fund. What is crucial now is that we frame the debate, why this law is not the Demographic Fund Act and why we need a referendum. Nevertheless, the National Assembly is slightly different from the Government and I think that as representatives of the people we should think about using multiple mechanisms such as the Consultative Referendum. The fact is that we are ahead of a key decision in the National Assembly, whether we are allowed to set up a demographic fund that is not, or to consult people before that. We know that this story has gone on without public participation, that it has gone on without any serious dialogue with trade unions, which are those who should be actively involved in this demographic fund or this demographic fund, which would once have been created, and that this would in fact have been accepted for some other reason to come to the end. Once again, the fact is that this demographic fund as envisioned by this government is not a demographic fund. Pensions already have a deficit of around a billion per year for this year is a billion 15 and it is necessary to pay this deficit from the budget, which is ok, we have such a situation, such a model, and it is right for the state to make sure that this deficit is covered. What this law is doing and what the Government is trying to do is to break it down in some way, it is said that long-term care and family policy will be included in the functioning of the demographic fund, and that is the key to where this money will come from. In fact, the demographic fund will in some way be submerged all state property into one institution and then the pension fund will be covered or financed. What is a problem in this whole matter is that, in fact, Slovenia is not Norway. Slovenia does not have any oil reserves, has no oil production and is not in any way able to bring additional funds into the pension register from this point of view. What the Government is doing or what this demographic fund is supposed to do is simply going from one pocket to another. What is now coming into the budget as dividends from a state-owned enterprise will now come from a demographic fund, and this is it, there will be no additional funds, but there will, of course, be some other things along with, say, commitments that this demographic fund will also take over. Only the Banking Company or the Bad Bank has half a billion euros in debt, so that this debt will also have to be taken into account in the operation of this demographic fund, and from this point of view these funds will be less than they now come from individual companies. So, from this point of view, of course, the key question is whether it is really a demographic fund or not. Where is the real purpose for this, when the government has decided to go in that form. Mr Ferrjan said earlier that no government had ever done this before, but now they have found this ace in their sleeves and it will get better. He won't. As it is said, if it will be, it will be a story which will essentially be an accounting operation where the purchase will eventually be the same if not even smaller, and on the other hand, there will be a fundamental difference, and this is that in fact the Government will be able to manage the entire state property almost directly in a concentrated place and I think that this is what is the key reason why this law is adopted in this way and before the elections take place. So that, in this new mega enterprise, this demographic fund can easily reach out to the government to scramble its people across different societies, which are state-owned, and I think that it is ultimately not a demographic fund, but it is only one large lifeboat for the currently ruling nomenclature. A large lifeboat, which also has very possible negative consequences. There is no guarantee here that these companies will also actually remain in majority state ownership or at least with the control share as set out now, but there may be a sale of these matters, privatisation of companies that will be part of the demographic fund, etc. In short, this story is actually a disastrous story when we talk about solving the demographic issue, when we talk about pension resolution, when we talk about long-term care. What we should do as a matter of priority at this point in time, if we are to resolve the issue of pensions, is to increase employers' contributions to the PPIZ. This is something that would bring some substantial inflow into the pension register and it would also be some net inflow, but not just an accounting operation between the budget and the ZPIZ. And we could also list what actual measures are like. But, under the line, such a establishment of a demographic fund is simply subjugation, and further subjugation of one of the key elements of this society, namely state-owned companies. From this point of view, a consultative referendum is more than necessary. I think that as the National Assembly we should use this tool, we should ask people what they really want, and then take this into account in the final vote on this law. Because, once again, this law is harmful, it can have a lot of negative consequences, not only for pension funds or for the entire demographic area, but it can have a number of negative consequences for public finances as well. For this reason, we will, of course, support the call for an advisory referendum. However, if this minority coalition, with the support of other Members and Members, does not vote, I am sure that we will soon begin to collect signatures for the subsequent legislative referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper has the word, and Dr. Kociper will get it for her. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Vice President. My debate will be very much linked to the debate of the predecessor, Matthew Tashner Vatovac. But I will start with a question that has already been raised today, and we have already put it in the SAB's position. And that question is who this government is actually afraid of. The question, of course, is rhetorical and the answer is clear – it is afraid of people, it is afraid of people. It is afraid that people would express their views on such an important issue as the demographic fund. We have written down the possibility of an advisory referendum in our acts. It is rarely used, which is also right, should only be used for the most important things, for the most important political issues. However, the issue that we are talking about today is exactly the kind of question that people should have the right to clarify. In fact, for many years we have warned our citizens about how we have a bad demographic picture, how our population is getting older, how demographic changes are among those for whom we need to look and find answers if we want a sustainable future, and in particular every one of us a dignified age. And from year to year, in this house and in public discourse, we talked about the need for a demographic fund. And now people, even those who do not follow politics so closely, will say, yes, why there is now one part of the option, but why the opposition is now against this law on the demographic fund. It is therefore necessary to seize every opportunity, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, to explain to people that this demographic fund is not what we have been saying for years and years in our country that it is necessary to prepare, in order to ensure some normal pensions for us, after all, who have a few years to retire, and also for those behind us, our children. For years and years we have talked about how to start collecting this money fairly and properly, so that we and our children will also have pensions, at least about what we have now, as pensioners now have, and these are already too small. And then the government comes up with a completely different proposal, a proposal that is not actually a classic demographic fund, which does not actually accumulate funds for at least some time and make them rich, which is the essence of every fund, with some proposal that is more than what we thought for years and years we were talking about, when we said a demographic fund intended to share some candy of this coalition, and some law that actually follows exactly the narrow goals of the President of the Government and his party, which he has been working for years and years, and it seems crucial that people, for the first time, understand that this is not the demographic fund that we have been talking about for years and years, and for the second time, that they understand how harmful this proposal is and the third time that they have the opportunity to clarify this proposal and the most democratic possibility, would be the one that we are allowed by law and the Constitution to go to the referendum and say so. Is that what we thought when we talked about the demographic fund? Will we give, do, and confirm what this government wants? This is to allow the dismantling of the current system of state property management. The system we've been building for years and years has gradually become increasingly independent of this system, that it's not dependent on mercy and ruthlessness being left to every single policy. Are we really going to give this government a start, because I think it will do most of what it wants to do, free hands when selling out the last piece of state property - 8.6 billion counts as property - do we really want this government, the government of Janez Janša, to have one law, to have the opportunity to manage and dispose of this last property that we have in this country? Since they did not go as some central governments would have done, if necessary, let us hope that it would never have been necessary, for any sale, after a long process, for an enterprise, if it was really necessary, as it had been in the past several times, really only for that company, transparent procedure and so on. No, only with one swing will they put all the assets in one pile, manage and dispose of it. I think some of the things that this government is doing will be remediable. To replace some strange people, in some strange places, to change some strange laws that were quickly adopted, but that will not be possible to fix, even if at one point of this property we still have in Slovenia, there will be no more. Not even if it's replaced at one point [[?]] the entire set of supervisors in all companies, whether they have a mandate or not or have been appointed by the previous Government, of this Government, whether it is considered possible to change them during the term of office, as some have or are not. By changing the law, they're going to put everything on the same denominator and they're going to replace everything at the same time, and I'm sure if people are going to ask if they're imagining themselves to say no and I don't understand why, I mean, I do, I do, but I'm rhetorically asking why you don't hope people to ask that. You don't hope because you know they'll object. And of course, it's unhygienic to transfer such power to one government with one law. Unhygienic. In the SAB, we were a demographic fund for some other species, which we stressed all the time, and we also supported the previous law. Above all, we thought it was crucial that the property remain owned by the state. This is our property, this is the property of our parents, who created it, including us, who are co-created in one way and our children. It's a property we could really work with with gloves, like the last silver we have. We have always been convinced that these funds, which we would use for the demographic fund, must be accumulated for some time, it is said to be collected and managed, that what is also the essence of the fund, but not that for NSi we give a little, for young families, we give them to current pensioners, we give them a little for NSi for homes for the elderly, but I don't know what they get in the SMC, for sure, but now I have forgotten something. And I don't mind, not the homes for the elderly, not the higher pensions, absolutely not the homes for the elderly and the families, but that's why we have the budget, and as you share with this budget, we could share it from there, not take the future generations of pensioners. So, in any case, we will support this proposal to hold a referendum, and I hope that you will also consider whether you do not really hope to give people the opportunity to decide on such important topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u45	Thank you very much. It's Dr. McKinley's turn. Franz the Duck, behind him the Mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Much has already been said about the government proposal ahead of us. Look, I'm just gonna say it for a second. A proposal such as a proposal for a general strike, for a general strike and a blockade of the country for about a week, to get a little self-contained or not. We do, we do not want to be able to think at least until 2081, when the last meal of debt we have falls and will have to be reimbursed. However, if we are talking about the long-term sustainability of the pension allowance, not just pension bills, including all other, three, four public cash registers, if at some point we get the regions in the meantime, we need to ask ourselves, of course, how these will be filled more effectively, instead of a question of how to prey, regardless of whether or not to do something to be sifted and negatively staffed, regardless of which political obstacle will be in power, how to manage more wisely. And what I'm about to say is nothing new, but I've been saying it quite alone for the last seven years. The best demographic fund – what? – the best demographic fund is investing in minds and young people, the best demographic fund is investing in science and research into the interconnection of academic spheres and economies, the best demographic fund is a widely accessible subsidised culture and public education, the best demographic fund is an effective system, our public health system and, of course, something that has been shed under the rug also in the functioning of the Economic and Social Council, a healthy working and living environment and, of course, an appropriate public space for a broad debate, including on how to organise some fund. I'd rather have a debate on how from these 8.6 billion, some of which you call silver, to at least 16.8 billion. Especially in the light, he doesn't know if I'm the only one thinking about adding up this year for another ten years, 26 billion debt. How are we gonna get him back? With the new debt, we will reprogram, and the interest is favourable, and it is as negative, but at the same time the Ministry of Finance sees it as a fraction to make the table the principal without interest. Why not? Probably for some reason. Then we have some negative staffing, a downgrading of criteria, I have nothing personal against anyone, but you know, I come from Maribor alone, we have Mail Slovenia, some big complex economic entity, where you set up some pub 30 plus years, which used to work in some economic entity, when it's about like I'm playing football in the village league, and then all of a sudden when they're doing the reconstruction of the first team's NK Maribor. That's kind of what you're doing. And you know, and the politics of this government, I happen to have a chemist that I put out of my bag, a club of Maribor students, writes here "full of kicks". The policy of this government is "full of intrusion" and let Kaloh translate this Maribor phrase for you. The way you do this in a concrete proposal is to ask what remains young. And when I tell young people here I mean a little bit younger than me, 45 years away What remains young, including development engineers, who, of course, do not have 6 euros in gross wages in Slovenia, instead of a social hat, because if you want to keep them, give them a different approach, give them shares in the company where they work or co-owner shares. As this is written in essence, cementing the peripherality of future generations, go read in the last Saturday annex what the first man SID of the bank says, otherwise in a very polite criticism of programming the European development funds that this government is doing with a rather “no” multiplier. We're going to cement, cement, we're going to brag a little bit about it, I'm going to make it, you're going to make it, just like my buddy Brglez said about the joint left, and in 10 years' time, we're going to have no idea what we're going to eat. This is obviously the mental horizon of the current one, constantly recalculating in this House, to slow me down with this "fries" if I'm honest. And in some such important issue, which in fact concerns all of us, we would probably need a government that would have a much greater legitimacy than this, but when John, out of grief in the opposition of the robbery: “if I had only 30 etc., etc., I would give up” and when he is in power, he forgets his murmuring. I hope that against this government proposal, if this proposal of the consultation referendum is not adopted, some opposition on the street will form and, as FDV says, Comrade Djelan, you know, you cannot “glih” this, these are not our buses unlike any other party. This is some opposition that has some logic, which is numerous, which is diverse, which is not necessarily to always lead to some positive solutions, but is currently such a situation with some kind of blockade of the National Assembly on these key substantive discussions, when Chernačev Zvone says that we have literally forced the debate on the recovery package of money, that this debate will take place somewhere else instead of taking place here and there, of course, which is not exclusive. The next government and coalition, which I hope will have a much higher legitimacy in very difficult times, will have to deal with a whole range of reprogrammings and a whole series of amendments to some of the harmful laws that you will unfortunately adopt. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. And after him, he'll be discussing mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! In opening, I would like to say that this proposal that we have on the table today is not even D from the demographic fund. What is the purpose of the demographic fund? The purpose of the demographic fund would be to accumulate funds to also have sufficient resources over the years, 20 years and more for the normal functioning of the pension fund. That, in particular, I hope to sum up what you have proposed, which the government has proposed, implies quite the opposite. We predict that the state assets would be spent a little bit on candy, a little bit on sound, you said that this would finance long-term care, because it is absolutely necessary, but you need to have sufficient resources to do so. And I'm sorry, my respectable colleagues, with the money you're planning here, there's not enough funding for pensions in 20 years, let alone for everything else. In addition, there is a disputed mix of ownership and management roles and, as I have already said, the aim would be to accumulate funds and, in fact, to spend and spend money on this proposal. We all agree - I don't think there's one in this room, and there's one wider one that would think otherwise - that the demographic fund needs to be set up, a real demographic fund. In fact, the original sin was committed in 1996 when contributions to employers were reduced and a hole in the pension register began to be made. But, as we say, it's a fund that would actually somehow strengthen this pension fund. I think everyone knows that this government is no longer at all up to pensions, to future generations and so on. Respected and respected, with this law, the ruling policy takes into account only the remaining property of the state to do with it what it wants. And we know by what orbanistic plan this government has been working on for the past fifteen years, fifteen months, I apologize, well, not fifteen years, the last fifteen months. You submit to the media, you submit to the judiciary, you submit to NGOs, or you destroy those who do not submit to you, and so on. And that's how you want to get your hands on that little remaining state property. Janša simply wants to subdue what is left of the state property and sell it for some gold coins, possibly Hungary. But this law, as has already been said, will not save the retirement allowance in any way; but it should have been the sole purpose of this law. It will not allow long-term care, despite the fact that you are giving some of the fictionaries to this area, and will not improve the situation of families. It's just sand in the eyes, respected and respected. You want to grab what's last we've got. No, we can't let that happen. And it is right that we go to a referendum to let citizens and citizens know whether we agree. However, because I believe that today's minority government coalition, along with the parties that say they are in opposition, are part of the coalition – we are talking mainly about Desus – will not vote in favour of the referendum, at least in my opinion it will scare people, I am predicting that people will organise and collect the necessary signatures for the call for a subsequent legislative referendum, as was the case with the Water Act. I see and I feel that you are afraid, a respected coalition. You're scared because on Friday you saw what people are and what support you actually have. And don't talk, please, about the fact that the Slovenian nation has been disbanded. The Slovenian nation is not divided, but the government is not part of this nation and is against the nation. And that feels more like it day in and day out. So I'm asking you to get real and stop doing harm to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I also suggest to the debaters that you get real. The government doesn't take over or subjugate the Diary, Dinner, Work, POP TV and so on. That's not what you're saying. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Reich, he'll be followed by Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u50	A nice greeting to all of you on my behalf, too! Spoiled public finances, record high public debt, record government deficit, announcement of new tax exemptions for the richest, these are the facts on which we can conclude that the traveller of Slovenian public finances will not be pink and good in the future. In this context, if we look at the proposal for a demographic fund law, it is in fact clear that the sale of our national property will only accelerate because of the public deficit and the tax exemptions announced for the richest in the amount of even one billion euros. We strongly oppose that in the SAB. We are talking about almost EUR 9 billion of our assets created by our parents, grandparents, and the moral obligation of each generation is that the assets of the predecessors are preserved and beautified. But none of this is mentioned in this law; no such strategy can be understood. Moreover, it is possible to understand the different interests of the non-systemic idea and the objectives of everything in relation to the proposed tax reforms, so that this property will virtually be gone. And in the SAB, we strongly oppose that. We all know that the purpose of pension funds and demographic funds is to accumulate assets. And given the amounts of assets available and demographic trends and all projections needed to finance the pension treasury, it is in fact illogical and incomprehensible that the government does not want this property to be accumulated in such a way, in 10 or 20 years from now, somehow to help finance pension and other social obligations. In relation to the proposed tax reforms, in fact, the reforms proposed by the government are essential for the sale of this property, because otherwise this will not be financed. And in the SAB we strongly oppose this and this procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u51	Thank you very much. He has the word Željko Cigler, and he will be followed by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, respectable others! The State Holding Act repeals a number of laws. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that the interventions that will take place under this State Holding Act in existing legislation have had quite serious consequences, which are least favourable for the pension fund and its sustainability in the long term. Indeed, a number of laws have been repealed, which have so far regulated the management and control of state-owned companies and the demographic fund has practically granted powers to intervene in institutions where there is nothing to do. Indeed, this law provides that in companies where the sole owner and founder of the partner Republic of Slovenia assumes the role of founder of the fund. See, obtaining the authority of the Fund to appoint members of the Supervisory Boards and then clear management bodies, directors both in the Official Journal, the Slovenian Railways, and in particular the Slovenian Press Agency. So, in the leadership and supervisory authorities in which it has so far failed to carry out one autocracy and take over these institutions under its authority by an existing coalition. See that this autocratic will is prevented. We need a referendum. And citizens have the constitutional right to say if they agree. No one in this country, constitutionally speaking, can take these rights away from them. In addition, the State Holding Act repeals a number of laws, including the law on the conversion of the capital company PIZA and the investment policy of the capital company of pension and disability insurance, of course, and the Slovenian Compensation Society. In fact, this law, in conjunction with the statute of the Blue Insurance Company, provides that half of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Blue Insurance Office, appointed by the Assembly, shall be appointed on the proposal of the insurers. And this is an important lever for the supervision of employees over the funds and subset of the Blue Insurance Company, which was worth €1.3 billion in January 2021. See, and by repealing this law, which I have mentioned, the Law on the Transformation of Capital Company PIZ, will be a huge damage to public servants, as they will be left without their representatives in the supervisory council, and in particular the management of the Blue Insurance Company will be left free way to speculate with the savings of the insurance company. The law on the demographic fund of the current government and the coalition make this simple, this regulation, which has been set up so far, is simply being abolished. And to prevent this autocratic will, we need a referendum. According to constitutional provisions, people must have this right to express their views on this proposal in real terms. In fact, the Law on the Demographic Fund also repeals the Law on the Property Conversion of the Share of Insurancees, to which natural persons are entitled, which provides that part of the shares of Insurancees, the holder of which is the capital company of Pension and Disability Insurance, shall be transferred to the property of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute for the sole purpose of providing additional funds for compulsory pension and disability insurance, thereby forming part of the funds to be accumulated already in accordance with [[?]] and should, by law, rummage in a public pension box, land in a parastatal fund, under the unnecessary supervision of the current government or the current coalition, and in order to prevent such autocratic will, in fact, we need a referendum. In addition, the law also interferes with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, in the part which provides that the Pension and Disability Insurance Board is to carry out the function of the Assembly of the Pension and Disability Insurance Pension Fund. Indeed, the investment value of this real estate pension fund, which owns 3 000 250 dwellings, which are primarily for pensioners, amounted to more than EUR 100 million in 2019. Today the composition of the world, of course, of the institution, does not allow the government to have a dominant influence. And, here will be the real estate fund of the disability insurance, transferred to the demographic fund, whose assembly will be composed exclusively of the current government and also whether they agree, with this great intervention, to this institution that you mentioned, people should be asked at the referendum. In short, these are some of the harmful things that, in addition to all the things that have been mentioned today, are such that people are so long-term and extensive that they will affect the quality of life and the standard of people in us, especially the elderly, and of course, even when we are retired, that people have to decide on this issue at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart has the word and will be followed by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would very much like the proposal for a national demographic fund law to ensure long-term sustainability, but unfortunately it does not solve the current problem in this area, but only all the challenges in the future that await us in this area. The government wants to impose on us its proposal a law on the national demographic fund, which unfortunately has no added value, since it is only a proposal for a law to transfer state assets from one pocket to another. Such an imaginary fund is negligible as it potentially carries only about 200 million annual incomes for pension and disability insurance. Even today, we need about a billion, depending on the state's condition in a given year, but we know that we are still in the middle of a crisis. And this deficit already covers the country from the budget, from the same property that is now being withdrawn into a separate fund. Such an important law, which is intended to resolve the current and future generations in the long term, would be the wish of the government of Janez Janša to adopt ad hoc without a wider discussion and social partners. Opposition parties such as LMŠ, SD, SAB and Levica, of course, we requested a call for a public presentation of opinions, but we have been overheared, as we well know. Thus, we have only a tool to call for an advisory referendum so that all stakeholders and citizens and citizens can clearly express their views. By transforming the Slovenian State Holding Fund into the National Demographic Fund, the government wants to achieve a concentration of ownership over the management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia in one place. He wants to centralise ownership and manage the potential €9 billion of state property. That must be the goal that this government is following. The proposal for a law does not agree with a number of stakeholders who clearly and firmly point out the inadmissibility and weakness of the government's proposal for a law in the direction of failure of the provisions. The issue of transparency, control, political interference, corporate ownership management and the distribution of funds themselves is still a matter on the proposal for a law, which I will also indicate further. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission draws attention to the problems of political independence and the transparency of the Fund, responsibility and integrity. The law does not guarantee transparency, control and corruption itself. There is also a questionable way of managing ownership, distribution and resources to finance such a difficult area. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made clear the uncertainty and uncertainty of almost half of the provisions, non-conformity between articles, false references, derogations from system-wide regulation and insufficient arguments, and such a flawed proposal of law, and so demanding, would not be accepted as such in the National Assembly with such warnings. Many partners from employers' representatives, the Economic and Social Council, the Representative Unions of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise themselves, the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia, the Coalition, the Civil Society for Reconstruction, the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the Youth Council of Slovenia, the National Council of Disabled Organizations to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia are critical. Look, I would certainly have ended this list sooner if I had started with those who agree with this bill, of course, if anyone even agreed. The fact that the proposal does not bring the desired added value for long-term sustainability is also noted by domestic and foreign economists who are studying this area on the basis of multi-annual measures by countries. The fact is that Slovenia faces one of the most negative demographic trends. Every fourth Slovenian is over 65 years old. With such a trend, every employee is expected to work for one pensioner in 2050. Do we ever remember when two workers worked for one pensioner? For a realistic view of this issue, I am also referring to a few other facts from the past and also to the present, which we must take into account in every way. See, in 1996 we reduced our contributions to the pension, disability insurance for employers and the state budget by law and committed ourselves by law to covering the deficit of the STIZ. In 2013, at the time of this high unemployment and then this crisis, we covered only 66.1% of pensions with contributions, and in 2019, 81% of pensions were the most favourable economic growth. Here we see this difference in how it affects the disability fund itself, that is, pensions if the state is in condition or not. Projections of unfavourable demographic trends show that by 2060 we will have already covered less than 60% of pensions with contributions, of course for the fact that the economy will also be in good condition. However, if a bad condition occurs and these negative trends of the demographic fund are observed, this picture will be significantly worse. Look or we will have to make sure from the budget, perhaps from this proposed demographic fund that you are proposing, that we already have about €2.5 billion, which is, of course, huge, and we can hardly imagine it today. Yes, if we had oil, gold mines, diamond mines, maybe that would work, but we have a wealth of forests, and unfortunately we don't know how to use that for higher processing and added value. The only solution to the negative demographic trend cannot be simply a reallocation of state assets without introducing specific measures to raise added value, which some other countries have been doing for years. What do we need? In particular, we need measures to increase investments at home, including for our own wealth such as forests, as I mentioned earlier, and especially with domestic capital with higher added value. Why? See, opening up new jobs, strengthening jobs mainly in the real sector, based on their own development, is very important. This will ensure development jobs to keep young people at home and create a higher GDP to at least achieve this average of the European Union, let alone achieve the best. We need to report a labour force for the missing jobs. On the other hand, the objective of foreign investment must not be to exploit our cheaper workforce. The objective of foreign investment must not be to escape capital or taxes to the countries of the owners, which thus provide them with the charging of state and social treasury, and to us these same cash registers are poor. That's how we like to talk in this house about how our salaries are overloaded with taxes and contributions, and how we like to talk about how low our pensions are, how we're running out of health care and whatnot. We are very reluctant to say that our average wages are only half and even less than that of neighbouring Austria. Are we doing Slovenians only half that we're half paid? That's the essence of the question. Whether we are wondering why the owners of Magne in Hotch pay the worker half the wage, but if we are creating a similar added value or comparable productivity for our workers here, if the factory is here like it is in Graz. So we get half the pension benefits, and even though the contribution rate is one or two percentage points higher for us, then it almost doesn't play the part, but if the wages in Austria are once higher. And where does this difference go to creating added value and profit? Of course, we should be more concerned with such issues or efforts to become an economically more successful society, which will also provide higher inflows to state, health, local cash registers for higher and safe pensions. Transposing and arguing about transferring assets from one pocket to another will certainly not help us. Perhaps the proponents of such a law who want leverage to interfere with the control of state property. It's the only thing we can somehow explain to each other. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Government, we miss all of this in my proposal for a national demographic fund law that would ensure real long-term sustainability of pensions and the security of the elderly in the future. The government of Janez Janša is doing irreparable damage, which will be difficult to repair. Therefore, when adopting such a law, we demand a broader debate and solutions that will, in the real and long term, ensure the safety of the elderly during the third life period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is given to Boštjan Koražija. And he's going to be followed by Franz Jursha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Look, this demographic fund that the government is proposing is essentially a new lever for the privatisation of state property. I'll explain why. In fact, this Fund, including the National Demographic Fund Act, mentions only the division into strategic investments and non-strategic or portfolio investments. The problem is that this Slovenian State Holding Act is in fact being repealed at the same time, but it also provides for significant investments in which the State has to maintain a 25% share in these companies or companies. And this is exactly the biggest problem, I think, in this law, that in fact even in this case there can be quite a lot of, I will say, sales and also certain investments, or also strategic investments, that have been treated as strategic so far, can quickly fall into these portfolios or non-strategic investments. And it can happen that these things are going to go a lot along the running lane and they're going to privatize and sell. And that's what the Slovenians don't want, but we don't deserve because all this time we've been doing so many things, I'm going to say, quit and try to keep as much as possible. And I think the time has really come, even after this crown crisis, that we will again look at this public good and as little privatisation as possible when it comes to these strategic investments. When talking about the law on the national demographic fund, it is necessary to include all stakeholders who can and must influence only the amendment of the law or only the writing of the law. And, of course, I support this consultative referendum and I hope and I would also like to be supported by the government, although it will not, of course. Because these are still decisions that will affect all future generations and even us. One thing, too, which is quite significant, I will say, which is misleading in this law on national demographics is what management is supposed to be. So, this demographic fund. It is said that the basic mission is to co-finance compulsory pension insurance. And this will only make this mission more difficult in this demographic fund, with all the other things that will be today. That is, and the financing of long-term care and care for family policy and then some additional things that will be found in this law. As it is said, I think it is right when we talk about such important things to give this, I will also say, to the weight of the consultation referendum, that people should also decide whether they want or whether they will like to make such strategically important investments so, I will say what they can privatise overnight. And I think it is more or less clear here that there is also a need to respect the will to be expressed at this referendum, because there will be an consultation referendum in any case. I would also like to draw attention to these at the beginning of the above-mentioned strategic investments, because I also have a question for the ministry or for the Ministry's representatives, if they can explain to me more about what kind of guards they will be, even for this period of one year. As far as I know, once this Slovenian State Holding Act is repealed, a kind of long-standing legal void will take place and will actually allow it to do so, a true agreement, a one-year business past any safeguard against privatisation. And I would like to know how you will insure these strategic significant investments in this transitional year and that, indeed, this transitional year will not result in the sale of these non-strategic portfolio investments. This is only from one point of view, because when this strategy is adopted, it will also be important what you will define as strategic or what you will define as non-strategic or portfolio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Before I give the word to Franz Jurša, I just want to inform you that Gregor Perič and Magi have been reported. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Mr. Jurša, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u58	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! We have been talking about the demographic fund for a relatively long time. I remember in 2017, the month of December, we also introduced the Law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund in our parliamentary, then sent by the Group. Unfortunately, there was no realisation and procedure in the National Assembly because of the resignation of the Government, the President of the Government, and, of course, the dissolution of the National Assembly followed. How much more do we, who are advocates of the older population, realize the importance of reaching the demographic fund, especially because there will be an increasing number of ageing societies in the future and there will be an increasing need to provide the pension funds we currently provide through the pension fund and, of course, through the state budget at the same time. Of course, the question to me is, is this a good question for the consultation referendum? In my opinion, this question should be asked differently. And, of course, the proponents have to think about it, in a way, not to be misled by the question of the electorate and the electorate. The whole matter is question number one, this is government property management. Since I've been here in this room for several years, I remember that always a ruling party, which she was, had an interest in having interference. [[?]] over state property and, of course, wanted to manage it in some way, logically. Let it be, then let the Slovenian State Fund, which operates this property at this time and of course, now this interest in the current ruling party has also emerged. [[Incomprehensible]] Nothing wrong, it's a logical consequence of all the actions we've done so far. Of course, we must bear in mind that the resources at our disposal will not be enough for all that is written in the law, but, as long as we get to the law, the key is to get to the law, then that means that we can change this law too, and who in this Chamber thinks will always be the same authority, always the same ruling party, the largest ruling party. No, it won't, and it's the right thing to do, but, for one thing, another comes, and I think that Members, Members, on the left, don't need this bat to manage this property and actually sell it for a maximum of one year during this period. Yes, once again, I emphasize, [[sign for the end of the debate]] that there is always an ageing society and more and more money will be needed for pensions. And that is possible, we have recently introduced a law in our parliamentary group on the correction of injustice of 3.5%. This is also one of the very important matters that pensioners would receive in December, so I will call on all Members and Members to support us in our efforts. [[sign for the end of the debate]] This will eliminate the injustice committed during the economic crisis when pensioners received 8.6% less pension than they could have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Comrade Jursch, if you'll please disengage. The proposer, Luka Mesec, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Actually, there's only one comment I'd have. In Levica as the proponents of this consultation referendum, our position here is clear, we want to reject this law, not just because we are worried that the current government will work with state-owned companies what it will and what it is already doing, but because we are against any government working with state-owned companies in this way, so that it is able to practically enroll in administrations, that it sets up people who are then politically indebted to political parties. This has occurred in the past in dozens, hundreds of millions of euros of money. After all, we had to put a bank hole, which is also partly the result of poor governance, with billions of public money, and I want policy to look for better management of companies. And what I see in this law is lowering standards. Lowering standards for those who can assume functions, lowering the criteria for the required experience and abandoning Lachovnik's law, which limits the benefits of state-owned management. So I can't support it, and as I say, I want the reforms to go in a different direction than this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Gregor Perich is not here. As the last one, he gets the word "magic." Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I very much welcome the Secretary of State, including all the other colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber and also those in the sent-off offices! Yes, we have been listening to the opposition's own deceptions throughout the debate all the time today, or by the proposer and those advocating the call for a legislative consultative referendum. You are deceiving that the Government has not involved the public concerned or that the Government is afraid of people, that there has been no social dialogue, that this law is harmful, that it is not in line with the Economic and Social Council, and that you are giving yourself such a misleading question and that I will read it again so that the people accompanying this meeting can create a sense of who is misleading themselves today. Is it a government that is actually finally solving the problem or misleading those who are proposing today's issue? That is, the question is whether you are in favour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopting a bill on the National Demographic Fund, which does not solve the problem of pension financing. How can you write so misleadingly that it does not solve the problem of pension financing, but the Government of Janez also increases the possibility of hiring state-owned companies and privatisation. Now, whether we are only adopting the law for the time of the government of John Janša or perhaps even for a time when some other government is likely to take up its mandate. Therefore, just as the Legal and Legislative Service has given a misleading opinion, this also confirms all of your statements about what has not been taken into account in this bill. At the same time, the call for union membership, which is even absurd, is that it is really hard to hear that someone at a time when unions deceive workers and when unions actually advocate the opposite, but not what is useful for workers, which I do not think is a good time to mention in this debate. Perhaps the proposer and everyone who supports today's proposal disturbs the balance that the government of Janez Janša has finally come up with a coordinated proposal, which you have failed to achieve in all past years. You have been so connected, seemingly connected that you have not actually come up with any proposal that should have been adopted for six years now, because PIZ 2 has clearly stated that the law should be with 1. 1. 2015 already in force. Obviously, you failed to agree on this even though a colleague from the SD earlier stated that they had a very good, excellent proposal, but then I really don't know why you didn't come with this proposal at the time you had your government when you had the opportunity. So, in your promises, in what you have and what you can suggest, it is clear that, while the government of Janez Janša and the current coalition were able to get on the road together, to get close to the proposals of both the other and the third and fourth coalition parties and each of us has given its opinion and we have come to such a proposal for a law that is sustainable and will obviously also see the light of the world. All that you have stated below is that the Government is afraid of people, that actually working for people does not work for sustainability, does not work for families forward, but I think it is clear that it is also clear that it does not last, because this Government has done something that the previous governments have not done, and that is to say, it has given the PKP packages to pensioners different supplements according to their pension levels. What happened now on May 31st, however, is that this government was actually able to actually raise pensions, which the previous Sharčev government did not do. This government has raised the full-time pension to EUR 620, the lowest pension to EUR 279 and the increase in disability pensions to EUR 388.54. What have you done in all these years? No, you are challenging everything this Government has prepared well, what this Government is preparing for people, what this Government is doing to make a real difference in the coming years, even in improving pensions and the standards of pensioners, no, you have to come out with some referendum question, just like you did in the Water Act. But you forget that in fact people see themselves, see the results of one government, see the results of another government and will tell themselves at the referendum what they think. And we're not afraid of people's opinions. People should say what they think, because only then will you see that you are lonely, and that those who have signed you, for example, by the Water Act and if you will also be able to collect signatures in this referendum, the question of how then with the referendum itself. So do not imagine that you will be able to convince people in such a simple way and somehow give them an explanation that this law, the proposal of the Law on the Demographic Fund, is bad. No, no, no. This law is well written, it is written for people, written according to the fact that it solves the problems caused by our unfortunately bad demographic image and people, I am confident that they will come to our side, so to speak, on the side of the Government and will not listen to your misleading words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Mesec, the proposaler, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The colleague was not at the hall, so she did not listen to the debate where we made the facts very clear. The first fact is that the demographic fund does not create or bring new money into pensions and pensions will therefore not be any higher, as one of the representatives of coalition parties said in his position. This is the first deception or first thing we need to clarify here. The profits of state-owned enterprises now flow into the budget and from there forward into pensions, family policy and the rest. After the new, instead of through the Slovenian state holding company they will come into the budget through the demographic fund, this is the only difference, there will be no new money. Secondly, this fund will not save the Slovenian pension fund. This year's hole will be €1.2 billion, with 170 million coming from state-owned enterprises. And you can see here that this money is essentially too small to save anything. In 20 years, things are gonna get tough. The Institute for Economic Research says that in 2040 the hole will be around 2 billion and a half, this fund will be able to cover 4 to 8% of the deficit. These are facts, these are grave numbers. And there is no formula for how to get past this, with such a concept absolutely not, because this fund is not a fund that would accumulate assets, accumulate them and save them for 20 years, it is a fund where 60% of money goes into current funding policies, pensions, long-term care, family policy, everywhere its impact will be insignificant. We give the family policy around 600 million a year, an additional 17 million will come from this fund. You can create a picture of what difference this will make to the various documents that families receive, and so on, virtually nothing. So let me try to draw the line. I agree with the speakers who said earlier that the best pension reform is an investment in the future. So the investment in people staying in Slovenia, that people will come to Slovenia, that people will live and work here; this way we can correct our demographic image for the next 20 years. If we allow this country to become the country from which people are fleeing - and I repeat, according to the latest statistics 126 leaves a week - this way the demographic picture will deteriorate significantly. And if we adopt laws such as this, which we can reasonably suspect, because of lower standards and because of the way in which this government operates, that the opportunities in state companies and in the public sector will be given to the elect, but not capable, we will only promote emigration and despair over this country. That is why my judgment, my assessment, is that this law is harmful to demographics and that it must also be rejected for that reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The word has a government representative, mag. Peter Ješovnik, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u66	President, thank you for your word. The Government insists on the arguments presented that we have presented on the working body as well as today at the plenary session of this session. The government insists that it does not hold that we have not coordinated the law with the social partners, we have. The referendum issue is vague and misleading and the Government therefore opposes the referendum and proposes to the National Assembly that it vote in favour of not carrying out the referendum. Once again, I would like to stress what we have highlighted at many meetings in the National Assembly that the Government has not prepared this law in order to privatise state property. The government has also not prepared this law in order to change, to substantially change the corporate governance system. The government further wishes to stress that this law does not aim at pension reform, which is an important message. One of the government's fundamental objectives in this law is to follow an intergenerational agreement. I am therefore pleased that today's first-signed candidate has met this point when he spoke about the outflow of young people. We believe that we must deal with all generations and that we must find an intergenerational agreement, and that is the only way to find solutions to demographic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u67	Thank you very much. There is also a representative of the proposaler, Luke Mesec, who does not want a word. Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? [[Yeah.]] Yeah, and someone's gonna be right, besides Mojka the Boxer wants another word? [[…]] [[No, no, ……]] Moca, just a moment. Well, if you also want to discuss the representative of the proposer, Luka Mesec and the representative of the Government, please inform me immediately and you will receive the word as the last, namely, the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposer. Would you like to discuss Mr. Moon? [[Yeah.]] A representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] Moica the Boxer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Today we have a decision to make, whether to bring down a very good marriage at the referendum or to present such a referendum. That's not what we want. Finally, the Demographic Fund Act allowed for the future of the pension fund. We know that Slovenia is one of the oldest countries after the average age of the population. We know that young people who would replace this with their work, with their contributions, are not enough to fill this gap. The Demographic Fund Act will allow pensions to remain normal and solid. They just got up a little bit this month, which is very good. But it is not necessary to pretend that this treasury, this fund, will last forever. This fund will have to be complemented all the time. And who will be able to complement him if not those who will work? These are young people who start their careers. But if there are no young ones, if families are not motivated to have children, there will be neither contributions nor funds, for this will soon dry up. It seems fair to me that the money and property that we, our fathers and grandfathers have created are transferred to those who can enjoy it now, which means the pensioners. Too many people with too little pension to be proud of our pension system. This will need a supplement, and the first thing that this wound, which has been very deep and practically no government has been able to fix since 2010, is to say that this is the only option, this law, that the pension fund and our pensioners will be, so we are all going to face it, to ease the fear of what will happen when we are old and when we can no longer earn a living and we will depend on what we have created in the past. I think that it is an act to bring down such a good law, truly humbly and, of course, the laws are always being supplemented, they are improving. I believe that this is an initial move that will bring security to the pensioners, as well as an incentive for young people to still have children so that they can grow up and co-create our society, our economy and also take care of their parents in this way. We need to know that everything we have has been created by our parents and must be respected, respect for their work, and make sure that everyone is old enough to have a decent life. This law guarantees that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u69	Thank you very much. There's also a proposaler, Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u70	Thank you. Here, six seconds ago, exactly four hours of this debate passed. There have been many well-founded criticisms of this law in this debate, but I see that you simply do not hear them, nor have you heard one. You say families will have children — yes, with what? With the 10, 17 million that will come at 600, which we are now putting into family politics? Nothing's gonna change. You say pensions will be higher – yes, with what? Now we have 170 million from state-owned companies in the budget, after which the same money will come from the demographic fund. Nothing will change, except for the way in which state-owned companies are recruited. And that's what we're talking about today, that's what we want to talk about, but because you can't hear us, we won't talk anymore, obviously, in Parliament, but at the referendum. Fortunately, the public is a little bit more than a persistent or persistent party cadre susceptible to arguments and dialogue, because what I hear from the last SDS debates is that you only see one more truth - and this is the truth of your client.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica, please. Oh, I'm sorry, it's a time-share, and there's no replica here. This concludes the debate. On the proposal for a decision to call for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the draft law on the National Demographic Fund, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on participation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Matico Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u72	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and other Members present! Thank you for your word. I'm sorry I just ran in. You have before you the third amendment of the law, which is mainly necessary for the implementation and implementation of European rules in the field of cooperation in criminal matters. In particular, I would point out the following areas covered by it: the decision on interim insurance and the decision on the confiscation of property benefits or of criminal offences; certain solutions go out in respect of Eurojust because they were regulated by the State Prosecutor's Office Act; we complement certain solutions for a European arrest and surrender order; we regulate the provisions concerning the processing of personal data in criminal records and regulate the legal basis for statistical reporting to the European Commission. The only change that is not necessary for the transposition or implementation of the European acquis relates to cooperation with the United Kingdom in the surrender procedures. This cooperation will take place in accordance with that agreement, much the same as between EU Member States. That is why we have decided to establish a reasonable application of this law for these procedures. The solutions to this amendment shall include, as appropriate, proposals from all stakeholders. We have also taken full account of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, which has also been reflected in the meeting of the Committee on Justice itself, where the amendment was unanimously endorsed. So many introductorys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 26th meeting, on 5 May 2021, the Committee on Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly with a proposal for a reduced procedure and published on the websites of the National Assembly on 25 February 2021. The College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 96th session, 8. 3. 2021 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. The Committee was informed on a transitional basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service by the definition of the Ministry of Justice to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the National Regulatory Board. During the business term, the amendments were tabled by the SDS, SMC and NSI members at Articles 1, 4, 10 and 11. Representative of the proposed Minister of Justice, Mag. In a complementary explanation of the articles of the bill, Lilliana Kozlovich said, inter alia, that the proposed provisions of the draft law are mainly of a technical nature, since the amendment is necessary for the implementation and implementation of European rules in the field of cooperation in criminal matters. The proposal also provides for a new regime for Member States' cooperation in the area of confiscation of property in criminal proceedings and related temporary insurance. The two Framework Decisions, which have been the basis for cooperation so far, have been replaced by a direct application of the Regulation, thus amending the current law. The bill also deletes the provisions of the law relating to the euro just because a new regulation has also been adopted in this area. It further touched on the European task of receiving and handing over the guarantees to the persons received in the procedures for surrendering and supplementing the provisions of the law relating to the processing of personal data. The news is also the introduction of statistical reporting in cooperation procedures to be carried out by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. In her presentation of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, she said, inter alia, that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law in accordance with its competences and had prepared a written opinion. Most of the comments made were duly taken into account by the amendments tabled in the Coalition Group and additional written explanations were provided by the Ministry of Justice. Representatives of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia Tina Brecelj and Chief Justice Marjeta Švab Shirok said, inter alia, that the proposal for a law is an explicit technical law, that the regulation requires implementing rules, that the proposal also pursues a higher degree of transparency in the field of cooperation in criminal matters and that they support the proposal for a law. The collection and transmission of data and the preparation of the proposed analysis were also mentioned. The representatives of the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, Supreme Prosecutor Mirjam Kline, joined the position of the Supreme Court in the course of the session. He stressed that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office supported the bill. There was no debate between Members and Members, so the Committee adopted amendments to the SDS, SMC, NSI and Article 1, Article 4, Article 11. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and supported all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Social Democrats Group will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u76	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, respected colleagues! The proposal of this technical law, as we have heard, introduces into our legal order certain directives and regulations of the European Union and compliance with other laws. The content of the proposal is thus governed by the implementation of Regulation 2018/1805. It is a matter of regulating the recognition and enforcement of decisions on interim insurance and decisions on the confiscation of property benefits and the subject matter of criminal offences by means of a legally binding act of the European Union directly applicable and contributing to a more effective procedure and facilitating mutual recognition and enforcement of decisions under consideration. The protection and exchange of classified information in relation to the exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union is also regulated. The provisions of the law are also coordinated with the Eurojust Regulation or with the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which regulates its implementation and remedys minor deficiencies in relation to the provisions of Directive 2013/48 and Directive 2016/1919. Thus, a number of statistical data will be systematically collected according to the bill. Let us say the total number of applications received or sent by countries and by criminal acts, the total number of applications received or received by the prosecution or the court, the number of applications received or rejected or not executed, received and sent, and some others. The collection of these data is required by the European Commission, so that the data will be collected this year by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court, who support and believe that the proposal follows a higher level of transparency in the area of cooperation in criminal matters. The Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again! We have before us the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. The main objective of the proposal is to regulate the implementation of Regulation 2018/1805 of the European Union in the Slovenian legal order, which provides for the proper collection and communication of data relating to the procedures under this Regulation. In view of the need for systematic monitoring of the operation of other instruments under this Act, the reporting of matters extends to all procedures. It is a matter of reporting on international cooperation for the purpose of monitoring cooperation with other European Union countries. Article 35 of the Regulation governing the transmission of statistical data to the European Commission obliges the reporting of statistical data. The data and statistical reports shall be transmitted to the Ministry of Justice, which may be used both for the purposes of preparing a report to the European Commission for the transmission of data to the coordinators of the evaluation under international conventions, and finally for the systematic monitoring of the scope of the implementation of international legal assistance or cooperation and the preparation of relevant legislative proposals for changes in this field, if the data would give rise to the need for changes. Additional reason specified for refusal of recognition and enforcement. While the Regulation lists the grounds for refusal of recognition and enforcement, it leaves two places for Member States to lay down additional conditions. The Regulation provides for a catalogue of offences in respect of which double criminality is not verified. For offences other than those listed in the catalogue, it allows Member States to recognise and enforce decisions on interim insurance or confiscation decisions by requiring that the act for which the decision was issued is also a criminal offence under the law of the executing State. The proposal therefore provides that the decision shall not be recognised and enforced if it relates to conduct which is not an offence under the law of Slovenia, unless, of course, it is an offence under that regulation. It is proposed to delete the two conclusions of the Council of the European Union on the establishment and functioning of the Eurojust replaced by the Eurojust Regulation. The provisions on cooperation with the Eurojust shall also be deleted as regards matters covered by the Public Prosecutor's Office Act or directly covered by the Regulation. It is prescribed that, where a person in the process of receiving and surrendering in Slovenia as a country of enforcement exercises the right to an attorney, including in the country of assignment, he or she shall inform the competent authority of that country, and shall also provide information facilitating the choice of a lawyer. It is also prescribed that the police be required to receive persons on the basis of a receiving order and to instruct that person that he is also entitled to a lawyer in the country of destination. The right to receive a person in another Member State is determined on the basis of an order to receive and transfer the Slovenian competent authority to a lawyer in Slovenia as a destination country, taking into account the conditions and procedure for obtaining free legal assistance. The bill provides that this law shall also apply mutatis mutandis to surrender procedures between Slovenia and the United Kingdom on the basis of an agreement on trade and cooperation between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on one hand and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the other. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u80	Your Honor! We support the adoption of the amendment of the law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. This will give us a new up-to-date and more effective arrangement for Member States' cooperation in the area of confiscation of property in criminal proceedings and related temporary insurance. The proposed amendment to the law is mainly about provisions which are of a technical nature, and we must point out that the digitisation of justice is also of great importance in the implementation of this novel. The Ministry of Justice has recently made a particular effort to modernise and digitise technical developments in all areas of justice. One of the main commitments of the Modern Centre Party and the current ministerial team on the takeover of this resort was the establishment of a modern, efficient and more accessible judiciary for all citizens. The introduction of statistical reporting to the European Commission on cooperation procedures to be carried out by the Supreme Court and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office is one of the main innovations in this novel. This novel will provide a legal basis for the production of technical solutions both in the Supreme Court and in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. Technical solutions should be designed in such a way as to avoid additional burdens or to provide data without disproportionate burdens. In 2022, however, the Ministry of Justice will establish technical conditions for keeping records of requests transmitted and received. It will also be possible to understand the replies to requests, notifications and other communications from the competent authorities of other Member States or from the competent authority of the European Union. At the same time, it will also be envisaged to link that record to the criminal record. The Regulation of the European Union lays down the arrangements for certain matters to the Member States in so far as they make an appropriate declaration. Thus, the Republic of Slovenia has informed the European Union that dual criminality is a condition for the recognition of decisions, that the Slovenian authorities, in addition to the prescribed form, may also request a decision on temporary insurance or confiscation and that it receives forms requiring enforcement in English. In addition to the two intervention laws and measures on the functioning of justice at the time of the epidemic, we have adopted in the National Assembly so far eight laws or novels unrelated to the epidemic prepared by the Ministry of Justice. The proposal for legislation in this period, prepared by the Ministry, has so far been substantively and nomotechically prepared and properly prepared. Therefore, broad support was also provided for the consideration and decision-making of the legislative process. In the Modern Centre Party, we are confident that this will also be the case with the novel under consideration. This novelty of the law is also a small pebble in the mosaic, harmonisation of the European acquis, so we will gladly support it in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u82	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The law in question is in fact about the transposition of a number of European directives. The solutions proposed also form the basis for the implementation of Regulation 2018/1085 on mutual recognition, on temporary recognition and on the withdrawal decision. While the Regulation applies directly, some adjustments to the national legal order are necessary in order to effectively implement its provisions. As a result, mutual recognition and the delivery of the decisions under consideration will be significantly facilitated. Some harmonisations under the Eurojust Regulation are also proposed. In doing so, we cannot pass the fact that Slovenia has not yet appointed two European Delegated Prosecutors. The government only needs to get to know the names of the candidates proposed by the Ministry of Justice, and it has not done so to date. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is starting today. Slovenia has repeatedly received calls from the European Union for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors, even the European Commissioner for Justice called on the Minister of Justice at the end of April to speed up the proceedings. It is clear that the candidates have not yet taken up the position of European Delegated Prosecutor and solely because they have not been appointed Prime Minister of the Government for the past work. Both candidates shall fulfil all the conditions laid down by the rules in force at the time of the decision. Let us recall that, in March, the Government tried to prevent the appointment of the two candidates concerned, even by bridging the harsher conditions for appointment as European Delegated Prosecutor. Last week, despite numerous warnings from the profession, the government even annulled the selection process for the European Delegated Prosecutor. The Attorney General declared such a decision by the Government to be arbitrary and illegal, even contrary to the Slovenian Constitution. In addition, the Minister of Justice resigned from these baseless and non-professional decisions. All of this clearly points to the leadership of the Prime Minister in his work, the objective justifies the means. In order to achieve its objectives, it is also willing to undermine the most fundamental principles of the rule of law. In the SAB, we are indignant about such usurpation of power and strongly condemn the intervention in the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office, which unfortunately has already become a permanent part of the current government. The proposed law also addresses some of the open issues raised by the withdrawal of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland from the European Union. Solutions also bring about a systematic selection of a number of statistics, which will be the responsibility of the Attorney General's Office and the Supreme Court. This is the number of applications received or sent by country and by individual prosecutions or courts and so on. For the SAB, it is important that the cooperation of the judicial authorities of the Member States is regulated and carried out at a high level, at such a level as to ensure consistent respect for human rights, for all individuals in criminal proceedings. In practice, there are cases where the principle of respect for human rights is not fully guaranteed. Anyone who, in one way or another, finds himself in a criminal procedure shall have the right to legal proceedings allowing the defence to be guaranteed. Some other fundamental principles, such as the principle of solidarity, the principle of trust between countries, the principle of justice and the principle of humanity, must also be at the forefront of participating in criminal matters. These principles are intertwined and form the basis of international criminal law. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Franz Jurš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u84	Vice President, thank you for your word. What a lovely greeting to everyone in the hall! This time, the amendment of the Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union is an extremely technical intervention in our national order, followed in particular by the obligation to transpose European legal acts. Priority is given to amendments to the law relating to the regulation of recognition and resolution by means of a decision on interim insurance and decisions on the confiscation of property benefits and of criminal offences. The provisions on the collection and exchange of statistical data from criminal records between Member States of the European Union are supplemented. A key role in this is assigned to the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court. The law is further affected by changes in the field of the Office for European Judicial Cooperation and by supplementing the list of legal acts. The cooperation of Member States on the need to inform about the arrest and surrender procedure is further strengthened and, in particular, legal protection of persons will be significantly strengthened in relation to the right to a lawyer. The draft law also coordinates certain open areas following the exit of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. There are no problems in the Desus Group regarding support for changes and legislative additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented to France Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello to the secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! As a result of several Framework Decisions of the Council of the European Union, the area of cooperation of the Member States of the European Union in criminal matters was adopted in 2013 by a new Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, which has taken due account of the previous arrangements. The proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union contains amendments necessary for the implementation and implementation of European rules on cooperation in criminal matters. With the novelty, Member States' cooperation in the area of confiscation of property in criminal proceedings and related temporary insurance is further regulated. Regulation 2018/1805, as a European law, is directly applicable and replaces the two framework decisions that have so far provided the basis for Member States' cooperation in the area of confiscation of property in criminal proceedings. However, cooperation procedures under the current legal regime will continue to run with Ireland and Denmark as the latter have not adopted Regulation 2018/1805. The arrangements for both Framework Decisions will also continue to apply to the issue of interim insurance certificates and confiscation certificates transmitted before 19 December 2020. All of the above shall be properly regulated in the proposed amendment. In view of the direct applicability of the Regulation, the law currently in force is amended by deleting the provisions of the law relating to Eurojust because a new Regulation 2018/1727 has also been adopted in this area. The provisions for the implementation of this Regulation are already included in the adopted amendment to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, and certain additions to the rules in force also give rise to this amendment in the field of the European Arrest and Receipt Order, the guarantee of the persons received in the surrender proceedings and the addition of the provisions of the law relating to the processing of personal data. Editorial supplement to the provisions of the current law is necessary in relation to the rules for electronic exchange of data from criminal records. Use of uniform standardised codes between Member States through the European Criminal Records Information System, ECRIS. However, the processing of the personal data transmitted is subject to new regulation by determining the processing of all personal data not only provided. The legal novelty is the introduction of statistical reporting on cooperation procedures to be carried out by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the legal arrangements relating to temporary insurance and confiscation procedures, the Republic of Slovenia has not established a central authority to which a temporary insurance certificate would be transmitted in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation 2018/1805, in order to enable foreign competent authorities to communicate directly with the Slovenian enforcement authorities. In accordance with the option offered to Member States by Article 4 of that Regulation, Slovenia has reserved the right of other Member States, in addition to the provisional insurance certificate, to request the transmission of the provisional insurance decision. The same applies to withdrawal decisions. However, as regards language requirements, the proposal of the novel contains a requirement that translations be attached only to the provisional insurance certificate, and not to the attached decisions. As a result, they have been brexitating since 1. 1. 2021 Also in the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the United Kingdom, in the field of international cooperation in criminal matters, the provisions of trade and cooperation agreements between the European Union apply directly [[sign for the end of the debate]] and the European Community, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland. [[Incomprehensible]] Where certain cooperation issues are not regulated in that act, determination shall apply [[?]] International Conventions. It takes into account all the above, it is clear that all the professional solutions provided by European legislation are included in the contents of the amendment in a way that ensures the highest level of efficiency between Member States in European criminal matters. [[Incomprehensible]] In the SDS Group we will make this amendment [[sign for the end of the debate]] certificates.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the transport laws in road transport, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Blaž Kosorok, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u88	Thank you, President, for your word. Messengers and Members! Therefore, the proposed amendment to the Road Transport Act is intended primarily to introduce new forms of mobility, using digital technologies. is intended to simplify the system of subsidised tickets for students, students and participants in adult education, this simplification of the acquisition of a card or ticket for categoryed athletes. [[Incomprehensible]] In addition, it is intended to provide more efficient public line transport for passengers. The development of new technologies has fostered the digital transformation of taxi cars over the last decade. Thus, several Member States are already allowing passengers to decide for themselves between transports carried out using taxi meter and transport carried out by electronic application. Such transports become extremely popular among passengers as they provide price transparency or the highest possible price, and the electronic application also offers [[?]] a high level of convenience in all stages of travel, from planning or ordering a journey, to arrival at the destination and later insight into travel data. The proposed amendment introduces a new mode of transport, namely the rental of a vehicle with a driver while reducing administrative obstacles to the performance of taxi activities. The proposed amendment of the law will allow such transport to be carried out in the same way as before, but a taxi carrier will be able to use an electronic application instead of a taxi, which will be subject to the same operating conditions as an electronic application, which will, of course, be used to rent a vehicle with a driver, and will have to have a valid licence and permission of the municipality if it is prescribed by an act of the municipality. In this way, electronic-apply and electronic-application vehicles will be evenled in key market access conditions and will differ in their mode of operation. The scheme of subsidised tickets for pupils, students and participants in adult education was implemented in 2012 and has significantly contributed to the increased use of public passenger transport among young people. The subsidy scheme for tickets is quite complex, both in terms of pricing and in terms of type of ticket. The proposed amendment of the law allows the competent minister to determine the type and period of validity of the subsidised tickets and the conditions for the purchase of tickets, where the price of the subsidised ticket is uniform and depends only on the type of ticket. It is envisaged to simplify price formation and offer students, students and adult participants a more generalised ticket under the funding earmarked for the implementation of the subsidised ticket. The changes will take place in the new school year or in the new school year. It also simplifies the acquisition of tickets or tickets for categorised athletes, where the card no longer requires an image of the holder. The current law sets out concession areas for the implementation of the public service for the public line transport of passengers in inland road transport, where it is extremely difficult in areas where the interconnection of lines occurred to form concession areas, and the proposed amendment of the law lays down lanes. Line bundles allow for more flexible line adjustment in relation to changes in migration flows, thus allowing more efficient management of passenger public line transport or adaptation to demand supply. I believe that the amendments to this law will significantly improve the functioning of the areas mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u90	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister for Infrastructure, on behalf of the proposaler Jernej Vrtovec, presented in detail the solutions and main objectives of the bill. Among the latter, he highlighted new types of passenger transport that would also allow the ordering of transport via online platforms and mobile applications, the elimination of additional administrative barriers to taxi transport, the possibility of renting a vehicle with a driver and the possibility of taxis using an electronic application. The bill simplifies the ticketing system for categoryed athletes and the ticket system for integrated public passenger transport. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained in her presentation of the written opinion that the Legislative and Legal Service had made several comments to the draft law, which were only partially taken into account under the proposed amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. It therefore, in particular, summarised the comments on those articles to which the applicant did not table amendments or provided additional explanations. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission does not support the bill's proposal, in particular as it assesses that the applicant should follow the warnings of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and take into account their proposal to delegate the power to regulate the area of car taxis to municipalities. In the debate, members of the coalition parliamentary groups stressed their support for the proposal for a law because it represents great progress towards digitisation and brings transparency in the field of such transport. In their view, the bill ensures that taxis will be respected and also comply with labour law. The bill prevents the creation of monopolies, does not create leniency and does not bring unfair competition. It means the cessation of exploitation relations on the market of taxis and, as a result, better regulation of working relationships, working conditions and payment of taxi drivers. During the numerous acquisitions of the bill, the possibility of ordering a taxi by electronic means was highlighted, a simplified ticket system for integrated public passenger transport and more attractive products within the means intended to implement a subsidised ticket. However, members of the committee from the opposition parliamentary groups stressed that they do not support the bill. Because they believe it is followed by a very strong capital interest and a corporation that wants to create profits in Slovenia through the optimization of its tax position in Slovenia, through the additional exploitation of workers and also at the expense of users. The bill adapts the area of taxis to the business model of Uber, which means further deterioration of the working conditions of professional drivers in taxis, further exaggeration of work in taxis and unfair competition with which Uber will destroy national taxis of carriers, in their view the bill is written only for the customer side, this is for users of services and, on the other hand, it does not pay much attention to ensuring greater social security for employees in taxis. They also stressed the need to regulate this area comprehensively both in terms of labour law and in terms of tax legislation. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 5 and 11 of the SDS, NSI and SMC. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, chairman. About a month ago, news echoed in our area that Uber had used 50 straw companies in the Netherlands to channel her profits in a way that avoided paying taxes. This is the reality of the international transport corporation Uber or as Uber itself defines only platforms. Uber doesn't hire his drivers. His idea is that holiday workers, taxi drivers are included in the platform without the most basic rights and because he cannot forge his profits by taking into account the current security guards, who in Slovenian legislation are concerned about the welfare of taxi drivers, has hired Minister Vrtovac to write him a lobbyist law that will place existing taxi guards in Slovenian legislation in the trash bin. Minister Vrtovac wouldn't really have to do that. The taxi driver's position is already weak, they're working Fridays and saints, they're working at night, they don't have the right to a hospital. Uber could have come to the country by now, but he doesn't just move because he doesn't want to do it. It can only bloom under conditions of social dumping, which is limited by Slovenian legislation. The arrival of Uber will destroy domestic taxi drivers and push Slovenian taxis into even deeper distress. Instead of jumping to the aid, Minister Vrtovec lowers the standards that must be obtained if he is to receive a licence to carry out taxi services, he introduces a new category of car rental with a driver to circumvent existing contracts setting tariff classes for Slovenian taxis. It is no coincidence that this predatory corporation has long been banned by some cities around the world; Sofia, Frankfurt, Barcelona, if only three. For example, Denmark is also an example of good practice from which it is, that is, the country from which Uber left not because of this again, because it would not be able to operate in the state, but because Denmark has tightened the legislation that protects their taxis and because Uber’s profits at the expense of social dumping could no longer be drained by waste and Danish taxi drivers, he has taken a shill and hoof from the country. Instead of taking into account these warnings and consequences that we see very clearly in Slovenia and which say that Uberje should not be released into the country, the Government of Janez Janša is doing the opposite - it has decided to destroy Slovenian taxis and their families. It is committed to this objective even so strongly that, a few months ago, when they exercised their basic labour rights and protested against pointless measures, the cabbies suffered more than 10,000 euros in fines. When brought to the table by the Lobby Uber Act, she said why she did so – that opposition to the proliferation of legislation protecting the social status of Slovenian taxi drivers would in advance fail as much as possible. In Levi, of course, we will oppose the adoption of this lobbying legislation. We stress that platform technology can be used and must be used for social benefit, but unfortunately the Government of Janez Janša does not see this and rather associates with large corporations such as Uber, who are only interested in exploiting Slovenian taxi carriers and channelling revenues outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia into various tax havens. Nothing good can come out of this at first sight when Uber enters the country. Uber has a very large amount of money to provide market prices on his arrival in the country, while relatively okay he still pays drivers and invests heavily in promotion campaigns. Masks fall as soon as the market is regulated by such unfair competition practices, and then the costs on one side fall on taxis whose items fall to the ground, and on the other hand on passengers whose rental of vehicles from drivers, as Minister Vrtovac says, grow into the sky. On the left, we're going to object to this, as we say. We have also tabled amendments to move the provisions of this lobbying law to a decade to the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u94	Thanks again for saying that. The main solutions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act are the introduction of new forms of transport using modern technology platforms. The main purpose of this proposal is in particular to simplify the use of taxi services and to digitise them. This proposal allows the rental of a vehicle by a driver via online platforms and also introduces the possibility of carrying out taxis using an application in addition to existing taxis using a taxi meter. The rental of a vehicle by a driver may be carried out as one passenger or up to eight on a specified route and at a predetermined price. However, only those who have a concession for the provision of services in a particular municipality will be able to provide such services. It will also be necessary for the driver to have a contract with the employer for the operation of taxi services under one of the forms of labour law, so that it will not be possible to work in black, as seen by opponents of digitisation in the field of transport. Slovenia is a tourist country. The first impression of the tourist about the hospitality of the country is made by transport. Due to outdated legislation, we have not been in step with time and other European countries where transport platforms have been working successfully for many years. Of course, it is particularly important to point out here that there is no main purpose of the law of the arrival of a foreign multinational, as some have pointed out, but exclusively and in particular to simplify the use of taxi services and digitise them. There is a fear that foreign corporations from Slovenia will only draw money. The fact is that all providers of applications or transport services will pay taxes in Slovenia. And if the practice of such transports is extended, much more money can be collected from taxes than it has been so far. Furthermore, the claims that the law promotes liquefiedness are in itself pointless due to the fact that the very area of transport taxis is now one of the most tedious if we consider to be a work form of self-employment, which is most commonly used in taxi services. The law in question therefore lays down only the basis and conditions for the work of providers in the field of transport in Slovenia and does not regulate labour relations and labour law under which the so-called criminality must be addressed. However, according to the latest Valikon opinion poll, the Slovenians certainly want a change in the area of taxis because they are more than obviously not satisfied with the quality of the current transport offer and there are almost 70 5 opinions that changes in this area are necessary. It is not something to be proud of that, given the results of the survey, more than half of their clients have ever felt cheated. Mobile applications would thus bring the necessary transparency to this area. It would have been clear to the passenger before the car arrived who he would drive with and how much he would pay for the ride. All possible attempts to cheat by choosing longer routes will be recorded by the application and in the case of fraud, the customer may also receive the refund money. However, it is little overlooked that the law also lays the legal basis for concluding contracts with municipalities for the introduction of free subsidised tickets in urban bus line traffic for registered athletes, pensioners over 65 years of age, holders of a European card for the benefit of disabled persons and veterans of war. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are convinced that we need to start thinking about mobility of people, goods and services. Modern mobility means connecting infrastructure, modes of transport and digital communication. As the proposal for a road transport law follows these principles, the Members of New Slovenia will be pleased to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u96	Your Honor! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, which, in the light of the example of many developed European countries, regulates the legal basis for establishing modern forms of mobility and optimizes the functioning of the subsidised ticket system. The draft law primarily removes certain administrative barriers to taxi transport and introduces into legislation the concept of rental of a vehicle with a driver defined as carrying out transport in accordance with the transport contract. Under existing legislation, taxi drivers will only be able to carry out transport on the basis of a taxi meter. This legal arrangement will allow existing transport providers to rely on modern technology in the provision of their services and thus significantly improve their effectiveness. The introduction of the possibility of setting up so-called cooperation platforms will expose existing market participants to new challenges. To a greater extent, they will be able to adapt to the wishes of a modern consumer who, in line with the faster pace of life, is asking for logistics services with easier accessibility and better time-use. The implementation of similar measures in most other developed European countries results in the recruitment of business models, which offer a significantly better user experience compared to their predecessors. The currently established examples of transport services using an application in the world work by identifying the user's locations and then connecting it with the available transport operators nearby. An application based on algorithms has already shown the exact transport price to the user before and the amount is automatically withdrawn after the service has been performed from the bank card that the user must specify when entering the application. Applications also allow for an evaluation system in which operators assess users and users of operators. Low estimates may lead to actions on the part of the tenderer, including exclusion from the platform. The main advantage of concluding agreements on transport through online platforms is seen in the exact final assessment of transport and the course that passengers are known for prior to the confirmation of the service. This will give the platform a higher level of protection for the consumer of the existing form of security assurances, including a taximeter for transparent service delivery. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the services provided by modern technology platforms do not belong to the information society as the basis for calculating the price of transport services. In the SMC Group, we believe that the adaptation of legislation that would enable the implementation of taxi transports to apply the application is an example of good practice that modernises the concept of mobility in Slovenian cities and improves the quality of life of the population. In our view, the instructions for carrying out taxis as we know them today are much too much to follow the wishes and expectations of a modern user. In the SMC Group, we are also hoping to implement the bill because it introduces a free subsidised ticket for registered athletes, pensioners over 65 years of age, European card holders, benefits, disabled people and war veterans because it reduces the principles of the social state and combines the principles of social state and sustainable mobility. The bill also modernises the process of obtaining tickets for registered athletes and simplifies the system of buying and storing tickets in public passenger transport. The selection of tickets offered under the current arrangement is quite ineffective, as it offers many packages for which the user rarely asks. We believe that it would make sense if a package of subsidised tickets were to be made according to the size of the people. This would further encourage people to use public transport infrastructure for their daily transport needs. On the basis of the above facts, we will support the proposal of the law in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u98	A nice welcome to you all, distinguished Secretary of State, fellow Member and Members! The law that we are considering today has raised huge amounts of dust in recent months, as it is intended to re-create the basis for the arrival of the Uber Corporation, and thus fundamentally intervened in the conditions of the work of Slovenian taxis, which have already been severely affected by the epidemic. That is, in July 2020, the first was announced by the Minister. It was then that he first spoke in oral questions about changes in legislation that would help improve the mobility of the population. As an application that follows this objective and is also suitable for the Slovenian market, Uber pointed out. After indignation of the public and taxi drivers, he turned the board and began in the media, as well as at the hearing on the home labour body, claiming that the law did not in any way create the basis for the arrival of this international cooperation and that Uber would in fact not have the conditions for action. Such an establishment surprised us because the Minister had not previously hidden his ambitions and sympathy for this company. Also in 2017, when the law with exceptional support with similar material was tabled by the SDS, Uber was a great advocate in his deliberations, namely, Uber and not just corporations and digitisation in general. On the other hand, such conversions are no surprise, since the Minister has repeatedly complicated his statements during the entire time of the consideration of the law. In interviews, for example, he has repeatedly stressed that the bill opens the door to digitisation and the possibility of digital platforms offering better, cheaper and more modern transport services. Let's stop at a cheaper price first. If this is the case and transports will certainly be cheaper, then why is the fuse missing from the law regarding the maximum tariff that the municipality can set. Article 57, in its first paragraph, allowed municipalities the possibility of regulating, since they could set a maximum rate for the operation of taxis for driving, which began and ended in its territory. Now this provision is gone; what are we wondering? In addition, we missed the above all the time and especially the adjective “safer”. Even though everything else would hold, what about security? There is no justification for neglecting safety. And it is known that at Uber, given that anyone can sit behind the wheel, the safety of passengers is the most questionable. It will be interesting to monitor what will happen in the end and whether Uber will come to Slovenia or what the Minister has said will not be possible. And if he does come, will he really comply with Slovenian labour law? For it is known that the violation of the latter is a synonym for Uber. Minister Vrtovec has repeatedly pointed out that public opinion research has also shown what people want and what they would welcome. Unfortunately, public research, in particular those carried out by interested tenderers, is not always a reflection of actually good measures. As I have already pointed out, I would like the Ministry of Action not to adopt measures on the basis of surveys, but on the basis of expert studies, and as far as we are aware, no specific provisions have been made for this law. Claims that the law brings more modern digital solutions that will give the user behaviour, who will drive him, when he comes, and how much it costs to drive, are marked as misleading. All of this is already offered by various applications of Slovenian and foreign suppliers. As a result of Uber, which sparked the most indignation and was therefore devoted to the largest part of the debate, the issue of concessions remained in the background. The fact is, it's a walnut market. The invitation to tender has been open for years, things have remained unchanged for too long. At the meeting of the home work body, Minister Vrtovec ensured that changes in the law would create the first grounds for dispersing the concession system and adequately regulating it so that smaller carriers would also be able to obtain a meal in line transport. However, smaller bus carriers point out that the new tender for concessions appears to be almost entirely the same as the old one. In the SAB Group, we will closely monitor and respond to developments in this area. Since the solutions brought by law in the SAB Group are assessed either as harmful or as insufficiently defined or binding, we will oppose the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Currently, new forms of passenger transport cannot be implemented under the applicable Road Transport Act. Occasional transport can only be carried out as a pre-determined group of passengers and the transport of one passenger is only possible in the form of a taxi. The proposal seeks to make it possible in Slovenia to provide innovative and advanced technologies that can ensure that service providers share resources, time and skills, that users of services come to new services with an expanded offer and lower prices and that cooperation takes place on advanced platforms. Although the bill is not only about one application or platforms, we are talking only about the Uber application, probably because it is the most media-recognizable and widely distributed area around the world. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the development of digital technologies and of the need to adjust the time we live. The bill does not abolish the classic taxis carried out by means of so-called taximeters, but allows the user to simply order his transport through a digital platform, which also allows him to carry out the exact cost of such transport before transport and not only the indicative amount provided by applications already present on the market. However, it is very important that such transport can only be carried out by a licensed carrier or entity. That's how control will be established. And as a link with the financial administration will be made possible, in our opinion, work will also be reduced to a line-by-side tax separation, which will contribute to the state budget. In the Desus Group, we are aware that the lax forms of work are a major problem, as there is too much abuse, exploitation and overtime on the market for taxis. And it is right for us in Slovenia to take the view that these precarious forms of work and that such a way of working leads to an increase in overrepresentation and that among those with self-employed status there is always a certain proportion of vulnerable groups. Some experiences from abroad also show that such online or mobile applications have harmful effects on workers' rights and social situation if they are not sufficiently regulated by law, so we need to establish such controls to minimise such abuses. In the Desus Group, we welcome the provisions in the law that go to the application of the Labour Relations Act, namely that a person must be either in a working relationship or have one of the legal status forms of employment allowed. We are confident that this will protect the social and legal situation of the person who will carry out taxi transport either on the basis of digital platforms or the so-called classic taxi service. However, we must be aware that, until the legal form of a single entrepreneur is prohibited, such a form of employment is permitted. We agree, however, that the position of a self-employed entrepreneur and his rights must be systematically regulated, particularly with regard to the absence of a hospital, regression and other rights, which is not intended and cannot be regulated. In the Desus Group, we believe that, according to the requirements and safeguards contained in this bill, it is unlikely that a corporation like Uber will come to Slovenia at all. With regard to support for the bill, we will decide in the Desus Group after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u102	In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are confident that the Novela Road Transport Act, which allows new types of transport of passengers via online platforms or applications in the field of mobility, will create new opportunities for both consumers and entrepreneurs, and will make an important contribution to creating new jobs and economic growth in our country. We support the vision of digital mobility because we believe it brings better services and represents important progress in this area. Mobility is one of the fastest growing and developing industries increasingly intertwined with digital technology. This has also enabled new business models to put the user at the forefront of what they have to. Mobility will be at the time of recovery after the crown of the crisis, it is an important economic activist, including a tourism industry that has experienced one of the biggest downturns and we believe it is high time that Slovenia, by adopting the proposed changes, step in with the rest of Europe and thus enable users to choose better and better service quality. This is also confirmed by the results of the public opinion survey carried out by Valicum, which concluded that almost three quarters of the opinions asked are that the amendment of legislation to ensure greater transparency and quality of taxi services and the possibility of using mobile applications in Slovenia is necessary and welcome. This same study shows more than half the dissatisfaction with the provision of taxi services in Slovenia. The success of the cooperation platforms presents a challenge for existing market participants by allowing individual citizens to offer services, as well as promoting new employment opportunities and job organisation and new sources of income. This solution, which brings modernisation and digitisation to this area, will allow for equal treatment of all types of carriers and will allow the full implementation of the free economic initiative in this area. We are confident that the amendment will remove a number of administrative obstacles to the conduct of taxi activities, while we are pleased that the proposal sets out the safety guards and minimum requirements that must be met by the transport supply applications as well as the drivers themselves or operators themselves. That is why we agree with the requirement that because it is possible to transport passengers at national level, it is mandatory to obtain a passenger transport licence for such transport. Furthermore, the proposal does not change existing rules and does not interfere with working relationships, as work through platforms will have to follow applicable labour and tax legislation. Drivers will thus have to have a close working relationship and obtain all necessary permits. The novelty will also make a significant contribution to the reduction of black work, with new possibilities for offering transport more transparent and predictable for users and carriers. We are also committed to the fact that standards in this area should not be reduced in any way, but should be further upgraded, and that effective controls on the market are needed not least by inspections and also by market editors, not least by inspections and also by editors. We agree with the provisions in this proposal that will simplify the acquisition of tickets for categoryed athletes, simplify the form of tickets and simplify the system of tickets for integrated public passenger transport, of course all in the light of a faster response to the needs of the beneficiaries and thus the greater attractiveness of public passenger line transport. However, with the desire to further increase the use of public transport in Slovenia and the desire to have as much cost-effective and efficient as possible operate and manage the entire public passenger transport system in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we propose that users be offered more attractive tickets within the means intended for the implementation of subsidised tickets. At the same time, we support the addition to the novel establishing a legal basis for concluding contracts with municipalities for the introduction of free subsidised tickets in urban bus and coach transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons, veterans of war and registered athletes. For all I have said, we will support the proposal of the novel in the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u104	Dear Vice President, all present! In the initial draft of the law, we were misled in the Slovenian National Party, and when we looked closely at it, we found certain harmful errors for the Republic of Slovenia, so we addressed the Ministry of Infrastructure with a written question and then a reply. The latter has been taken into account by the government, so we see no difficulty in preventing the law from being adopted in such a final form. On the contrary, because we are inclined to cooperate with the economy and the arrival of Uber in the Republic of Slovenia, because it is a start-up company which, by means of a mobile application, connects transport search engines with transport providers. We believe that it is high time our policy to step in with time, modern online technology and to change the usual business model. We already have digitization in commerce, banking, tourism. The taxi driver's amendment of the bill opposes and refers to them as unfair competition, but this is not entirely true, as Slovenian tax laws will have to be respected in order to prevent the latter, so there is no spirit or precaration in this law. It is quite appropriate to give a chance to new forms of passenger transport, because this gives us a greater choice between providers. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that by introducing vehicle rental services with a driver Slovenia could improve mobility of persons in poorly accessible areas for autotaxis, or where public transport is weak, for example in a rural village. Passengers will also be insured in accordance with the Act on Personal Insurance in Transport. It is also a fact that drivers who will offer transport via digital platforms will need a license and must have a working relationship, under the labour law with all the permits, which will reduce the work in black, which is still a great deal. It is also very important that companies wishing to provide services will have to be registered in the Republic of Slovenia so that the tax will also be collected in our country. The experience of other EU Member States also points to a price advantage, since in the case of a small demand for longer driving or Uber’s relationship, it can be cheaper than a taxi, which we think is very welcome, as taxi services are usually overpaid. The passenger is also further aware of the price and other characteristics of the transport, and therefore there is a very low likelihood of abuse. The supervision of financial transactions will be concluded by domestic law in this area, where all network transport companies will be required to comply with Slovenian law. The bill was indeed very exciting to our Slovenian public, where the plaza of comments from many stakeholders was then shed, and we oppose them in the Slovenian National Party because they are not in place. Online technologies such as Volt, Airbnb, Booking, Alibaba are certainly already using most of us Members. Our fundamental guide is that what is possible to do is good for all our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which Uber will do. Most of you, especially on the left, forget that the law not only speaks about Uber, cabbies, but also about simplifying the acquisition of cards, tickets for categorized athletes and the form of cards. Every time we have an opinion on a single marriage, everyone hits each other and that's all they're talking about. But they forget what they're describing and what we're going to support with this law. In short, the whole system, which now has 69 strong tickets or combinations of public transport tickets, is being simplified by reducing the number of tickets, which we certainly support in the Slovenian National Party. There will also be more subsidised transport in the field of public passenger transport, which will be more user-friendly and accessible to all users.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u106	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act introduces new types of passenger transport which would also allow for the ordering of transport via online platforms and mobile device applications, the elimination of additional administrative barriers to taxi transport, the possibility of hiring a vehicle with a driver and the possibility of taxi transport using an electronic application. The bill simplifies the ticketing system for categoryed athletes and the ticket system for integrated public passenger transport. We support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because it represents great progress in the direction of digitisation and brings transparency in the field of taxis. In our view, the bill ensures that taxis will be respected and also comply with labour law. The bill prevents the creation of monopolies and does not create leniency and brings unfair competition. It means the cessation of the exploitative situation on the market of taxis and, consequently, a better “validity” [[?]] working relationships, working conditions and payments of taxi drivers. It is very important that the bill provides for the possibility of ordering transport taxis by electronic applications, a simplified ticket system for integrated public passenger transport and the provision of more attractive products within the means intended for the implementation of a subsidised ticket. As the law does not change the existing law, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act is allocated to all the votes of the parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Edward Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u108	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The only constant is change and the economy is no exception. Thus, in the second half of the 20th century, we are witnessing the development of new business models when companies focus on the model of the so-called cooperative economy. This is a business model in which the implementation of activities is made possible through platforms for cooperation, while companies create an open market for the temporary use of goods or services often provided by individuals, i.e. natural persons. According to some estimates, by 2025, the main sectors of the collaborative economy will contribute globally to raising income from the current 13 to EUR 300 billion. In recent years, business practices have already developed in the segment of the collaborative economy, showing shortcomings, particularly in the field of labour law. Consequently, due to the protection of the rights of workers abroad, case law has also been developed. During this time, we have adopted several documents and guidelines in the European space on the subject of a collaborative economy. A key focus is the care and protection of consumers, labour rights and an appropriate tax policy. According to the LMŠ Group, everything just listed in today's bill. [[Incomprehensible]] Today we are actually adopting a new law according to Uber's standards. Indeed, it must be acknowledged that in our country there are quite a few companies operating according to the model of the cooperative economy, and for none of them we have gone to amend the sectoral legislation. Moreover, these companies have adapted their activities to Slovenian legislation. So, instead of making changes to the Road Transport Act in an integrated way and also settling other open issues, you are today accepting lex Uber. You are offering no solution to the tax regime. In fact, companies that provide their services in Slovenia through digital platforms create transport in our country and pay taxes abroad, i.e. in the country where the company is established. In this way, a large part of taxes are being taxed from Slovenia, which should otherwise be charged to our state treasury. We have already warned and proposed the introduction of a digital tax in LMŠ, but this coalition for our solutions did not have the same important problem as the precaration you are further increasing with today's novel, respected colleagues of the minority coalition. Lex Uber will further increase the number of penetrating workers who will continue without real labour rights, and this is certainly not in line with the European agenda for a collaborative economy adopted by the European Commission in 2016. This is therefore a Lobistic law where you are adapting the conditions for the management of road transport activities to one of the world's largest companies, while at the same time simplifying the standards required by the European Council regulation on common rules on the conditions for the management of road transport activities. This is unacceptable, unprofessional and totally inappropriate. Although we do not oppose the regulation of the area of the collaborative economy in the LMŠ Group of Members, we are convinced that we should do so in order to adapt labour law and tax legislation first and only in the field of legislation. We will not support the new law in the LMŠ because of all the above mentioned today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u110	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State and co-worker, welcome! At the outset, I would like to say that the Social Democrats will not support this new law. Of course, the words cited by the proponents sound nice, removing additional administrative barriers to taxi transport, the use and introduction of the possibility to use the application, are given jurisdiction to municipal officials to control the road and also to control taxis for the transport and transport of rental vehicles. Simplification in the acquisition of cards and tickets for certain categorised athletes. So if we hear that, we think that there's no issue, let's back it up. But it's not like that. The law and its solutions, according to the SD Group, may still be controversial. We also assess that they are controversial and that is why we have also called for an initiative to call on the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and people with disabilities, and on the solutions at issue, we have also spoken very frankly. The proposer says that this law or some solutions are for digitisation and digital development of Slovenia, and we do not think that this is the case. If the law were really as good as they say it would not have opposed so many stakeholders and civil society movements. The fact is that the proposed solutions will increase the overreach of labour relations. Platforms that can be put in place after the adoption of this law, and I will not list them by name, constitute a system of extorting workers and workers. Concern and fear that forms of work that will not provide social security and labour rights will be put in place. This would make it easy for the Slovenian market to come up with platforms for which they operate abroad, finding that they have an extremely opaque way of operating through their algorithm, known for their unethical undermining of competition, unethical receptions, and generally known to use problematic practices. That is also why in some countries they are limited either by raising standards and even reporting that it is time for them to work differently. Clear labour and legal relations, social security and labour rights will be undermined if this law is adopted. Most of the solutions that have yet to be written down are unacceptable from the point of view of our Group of Members, and in some parts they represent exactly what we are fighting as a Group of Members and a Party. We therefore oppose this amendment of the law in the SD Group of Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Four panellists have been reported. First he gets the word Andrey Chernigoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u112	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Digitalisation is inevitably developing around the world. We do not give this topic enough, too little, in Slovenia. Digitalisation and mobility always go more hand in hand. Only a driving car is no longer about fictional film, but it's almost reality. If we go back to the fact and to this law and amendment. Facts that matter, citizens and citizens want changes in this area, in the field of transport, because they are completely dissatisfied with the current situation as is now being regulated. The current proposal is without prejudice to changing the working relationship, and we have also made this clear and clear several times. And it does not interfere with Slovenian legislation on working relations. The law clearly defines fuses and sets minimum requirements. On the one hand, we are parties to this National Assembly who want development and to be in step with time. On the other hand, we have customers and individuals who use such or other applications abroad, at home, here in the National Assembly, and they oppose this in this esteemed assembly, mainly because of the possibility of obtaining a political point. The world is wooding at incredible speeds. Legislation and Slovenia are stepping on the ground. Some are primarily looking for separation in this proposal, although, as I said before, people have made it clear and loud that they want change. On the one hand, as I have already mentioned, we have those people who want development, and on the other hand we have, I can say, maybe some kind of lobbyists to those who are also threatening our infrastructure minister. Let him understand who he wants. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. As I constantly stress and point out the legislation that is changing is written precisely according to the measure and by the scale of the Uber Corporation. The arrival of Uber in the country through legal changes means the social destruction of the entire sector of taxis, which is already well served. The taxi drivers work day and night, do not have the right to a hospital, earn hardly anything, as our first personal experience has been very tragic and vividly described by Ambassador New Slovenia. These are the conditions of the periphery working relationships, the conditions of dispatching masters that squeeze taxis, and these are the conditions that need to be eliminated. The government of Janez Janša — What does he do with them? – instead of helping Slovenian taxi drivers to obtain regular employment contracts, to take their working rights into account, to work under normal working conditions and not to be under stress behind the wheel, unsuspectingly endangering themselves, their passengers and other road users. This bad situation wants to further deregulation and pressure on taxi drivers by bringing the Uber platform into the country. And it will happen very quickly that Slovenian taxi drivers will drive for 1 euro or less per hour, because only under such conditions can Uber Corporation create profits or even survive. And at present, the situation is that Uber is full of some money from the international financial markets with which he enters the country, introduces dumped prices, makes only promotional campaigns, thus taking over the market. After having a de facto monopolistic position on the market, it spreads chauffeurs’ wages on the one hand and, on the other hand, costs the passengers in the sky. And then the masks fall, and then it becomes very clear exactly what Uber is. Under completely deregulated brutal exploitation conditions, it cannot succeed at all. And that's why, let's say last year, he recorded 8 billion minus. All the money from the financial markets that ran into the Uber platform ran under the promise and promise that in the countries where Uber will operate and which he has identified as his international targets he has successfully abused the removal of legal guards who protect the sector of taxis and social standards of taxis as long as these guards exist, let's say we have them in Slovenia, but they are still too weak and too weak. Then one day, in the future, in the title of this social devastation, he drew profits. If I go specifically through the argument and views taken by the Ministry of Infrastructure or today the main trumpet of the lobbyist Uber Act, the New Slovenia Group obviously, as soon as all of these arguments are taken into account, we see that they are one ordinary feather, often even lies. Let's start with a tradition that black work won't be possible. Technically, this is true, but what today is working on the black driving for the dumped items will be legalised, what today is illegal exploitation of workers will become legal with the amendment of Uber Corporation legislation. These exploitative premiums can be referred to as the business model of Uber Corporation without which Uber is not in reality. Let me continue with the most likely flower that we have heard in all these debates around Uber legislation, that this amendment of legislation is not intended for the arrival of a foreign multinational. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has gone into coordination with the abutment that it is an Uber law. At the Ministry, when he was stabbed together, he was called Uber Law. On several occasions, in previous debates, I have challenged Minister Vrtovec on television in his statements, saying that this is not the legislation written for Uber to deny what I have just pointed out, so that at the Ministry she was literally preparing as Uber legislation. These occasions were no more than once, not once did Minister Vrtovec react, rejected, denied what I said. Yes, the amendment of the legislation is intended for one foreign multinational Uber Corporation, no matter how many times New Slovenia has lied about it, to repeat it. The next point is that Uber will not draw money from the Republic of Slovenia, but that he will pay taxes in Slovenia. I Googled an article in the magazine Finance, a very capitalist newspaper published by 13. On 5th this year, according to 14 days ago, the Australian Uber survey avoids paying taxes through the help of 50 straw companies in the Netherlands. Uber is a champion in tax avoidance written in Business Insider, summarizing the findings of the Australian research group Senprefor International Corporate Tex Accountability. Please look into the camera and look at me and look into the eyes of the Slovenian taxi driver, and tell them Uber will pay taxes from your work in Slovenia. You're not gonna do this because you can only lie so badly with a microphone and only in the hall. Especially if we know that Uber will not be present in any legal and formal sense with this change of legislation in the country. Will Uber have a branch in Slovenia, will he be registered here? Where will he have an open transaction account? None of this is going to happen. Uber also has accounts in which he will work in Slovenia in a tax haven in the Netherlands and will not have to open legal branches in Slovenia because he is present on the Internet. And the consumer, that is, the people looking for transport and Ubro's drivers will be interacting through the online platform, but TRR and the financial flow will be channeled through the Dutch tax haven. So in a legal formal sense, the Uber platforms and that's why the platform is, in Slovenia it will not be present at all. Uber in the Republic of Slovenia will not pay a single cent of tax. No, no tax, no zero. The same can then be found with regard to the rolling stock situation of taxi carriers. At the Ministry and in New Slovenia, hurry to ensure that everything is basically the same as it already is, but if we leave behind the fact that the situation is already flawed and is bad. Yeah, that's not true. Today, a representative of the work inspectorate can contact a taxi driver and a dispatching centre, which hands and directs this taxi driver, and issue such a decision and a different decision to them, can press that dispatch centre taxi driver has to hire, for full-time, for a regular contract of employment and so on. Please tell me what will be done by the work inspection when she gets a taxi driver on the S.P. who is actually working full-time for the Uber platform? Tell me how the work inspectorate will be when she finds out that there's a violation of the law, isn't it, a man like that shouldn't be working through the S.P., should have a regular contract of employment, how she's going to act, and what are her levers? Whether she will write an order and send it by online and by physical mail to the Netherlands, where she will or will not arrive, they will open it in Uber and laugh at her. Because it does not even have a legal formal leverage to take action for what is now classified as infringements of labour law on the road. And you, ladies and gentlemen, from the government of Janez Janša do not really need to interfere directly with labour legislation. You can reach into the conditions governing the formal conditions for the work of taxi drivers in road transport and thus also work inspections knock out all levers and all teeth that he has for the prosecution of leaks between taxi drivers and you do exactly that. Instead of helping taxi drivers to get better working conditions, you put them in an even worse position. This raises some other questions, which also remain unanswered. We can imagine why. When the Ministry and the lawyers of the Ministry, together with the appellators of Uber Corporations, say that no, no, they only allow the arrival and use of an application to order a taxi, they are appropriately silenced to eliminate the maximisation of prices that can currently be imposed by municipalities for the operation of taxis within the municipality’s district. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you doing this? The question is rhetorical. Because once Uber settles into the country and secures a monopolistic market, taxi prices are beginning to increase steadily, firmly beyond what we currently have in Slovenia. You also say that Ubro's drivers, just like the current taxi drivers, will have to obtain a license and still keep silent that you are lowering the standards and conditions applicable to the acquisition of a licence. In the same law, you cut the condition of professional competence so that someone can even carry out a transport activity and the financial conditions under which someone can carry out a transport activity at all. Why? Yes, so that every poor couple will be driven to the brink of survival, ready to drive literally for a handful of rice. One euro an hour, so much can be expected by Slovenian taxi drivers under the conditions of Uberje, once rooted in the Slovenian market. If you don't believe me, look in San Francisco, the birthplace of Uber Corporations, where Ubrovi drivers drive for less than in Slovenia there is a student minimum hourly item, and you can imagine that in San Francisco life is several times more expensive than in us. In the next step, when Uber chooses this monopolistic position in the taxi transport market, we can expect further lobbying pressures for the dismantling of public transport and subsidies from state treasury as this cancer has spread through some American cities already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u116	A nice greeting to all of you on my behalf, too! Obviously, this country and this society have different concepts of digitisation. Look, someone seems to understand today's explanation that digitisation represents the seasonal work of construction workers in construction, seasonal work of hop robbers, not least the work of cleaners and security guards through cleaning and security agencies where workers are sent from work to work and in fact an Excel table does not represent the concept of digitisation and development today. This is done solely to enable the capital owner to optimise costs and, in the case of transport, this is not a digitisation, but in the case of these online platforms offering such transport, of course a number of issues are raised. To say that this does not constitute an exaggeration of working conditions because someone will have an open espa and will be employed there is nicely said, an unusual justification and raises a number of questions related to the understanding of working-law relations. The fact is that it is not even clear how the monitoring of working time will be carried out. Someone will be able to work four hours in one service, and then eight hours later will drive the car, and that is, of course, one objective safety risk, and we know that in this way different price pressures are also being implemented and that the safety of drivers is not so ensured. If someone works in regular work for eight hours and there's a bad salary, he'll say, now I'm going to improve my financial situation with the afternoon espionage after eight hours. This legislation makes it possible and, of course, I, in such a way of exaggerating, creating such unstable forms of employment, see now what is happening in the field of food delivery, it is also flourishing and, as we can see, unfortunately, it is not only the students for whom this was primarily meant to have a temporary job, it is for some to be the basic source of earnings and we have seen now at the time of this epidemic in neighbouring Italy and Spain, when these providers began to strike and mainly the people doing it are the foreigners of marginalised groups and this will happen if this law enters into force, even in Slovenia and in SAB we strongly oppose it. As regards other laws and other novelties, of course we also welcome the addition of the coalition's parliamentary groups, which introduces the legal basis for introducing free transport for older than 65 years of age in urban passenger transport, but I regret that our proposal, as we have already put it in place, has not been taken into account and has been refused to make it compulsory and we have tabled in the SAB a legislative procedure, a change of law where this obligation would not be a mere possibility. So mandatory free passenger, public passenger traffic in cities. We have excellent experience in establishing inter-national passenger traffic between Slovenian places for older than 65 years of war veterans, disabled people and gives a good case also shows a number of responses by beneficiaries, over 160,000 cards have been issued according to my latest data, information in last year and, in fact, we support this issue. However, we would like these matters to become mandatory, as this is a key step towards unlocking traffic and also spending all public funds more rationally. We know that in one segment of public passenger transport is also financed through reimbursements for costs and that if one thing starts to be rationally spent and used, then I think that there should be enough money available to do so and also to ensure it as an obligation, not an option, but an obligation. In the SAB together, when we look at all these legislative changes, we see that we have quite a few concerns. So, especially in terms of this over-representation of individual transports and a number of questions, as we have already discussed and highlighted in our position, we have not received an answer. Moreover, we feel very confused with the common sense that the decisions of the Government and the ministries are taken on the basis of public opinion surveys, but not on the basis of professional studies, and that is why we will not support this amendment. Moreover, it must be made clear that, in a way that is done when the possibilities for violating basic labour rights and human standards are introduced, we know that, even abroad, all these poorly paid services are performed, carried out by foreigners, that is to say marginalised groups, and thus are introduced and pressured into the system to create systemic poverty in a particular category of people, and of course we will oppose such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word has Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u118	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Instead of the introduction, we note that this amendment to the law, which brings very important technological innovation in the field of transport, should have been adopted years ago, perhaps long ago. I guess that's what we all figure out. And today's debate also shows that even now is not the right time and that the way is not right. This is a typical indicator of why Slovenia is crammed in the field of technological development. For several years now, we have been a graduate group of students of computer science and social science, who one day realized that we do not have a simple way of coordinating transport in Slovenia. The idea gave an idea and soon it turned out that we have enough knowledge and resources to carry out the project. The project is called transport.org. I don't know exactly how old he is, but I think he's about 15 years old. There was a group of students, as said by computer science, social science and these boys, if I may say, who codified this app for a bono, this online application transport.org are, as has been said for about 15 years, university computer engineers or some other name. So this is the first digital platform for transport, so we have it in Slovenia for 15 years. No one prohibited it, no one proved it was black work, despite the fact that I ordered transport to Prekmurje to pay EUR 5,6 and this is not a black job, it is verified, we also had questions on this subject. It's as if it's as simple as that. So we've had a digital platform for about 15 years. And when I listen to these discussions, those who oppose all progress, I admit that I prefer to read experts' opinions, such as Mr Marko Grobelnik Institute of Josef Štefan, Slovenia's digital messenger on innovations in the development of artificial intelligence, said that they make the issue more transparent for both drivers and the country. This has to happen sooner or later, it's not even a question of whether it's going to happen, he's sure. At the AMC, too, they are aware that we are witnessing a transformation in mobility. Given that we have a lot of experience with drivers in this transformation, we want to raise awareness, guide and provide solutions to European car clubs, said AmZS Director Mrs Lucija Ziva Savivec. You can read what I read on your website. Of course, in New Slovenia we are aware that every technology, new technology, also brings traps, also poses dangers. Until there were cars, there were no car accidents. Unfortunately, when we got the cars or when they got them, we also had car accidents. We're getting artificial intelligence, an extremely important area. The European Union, the European Commission is working hard and is dealing with ethical issues of artificial intelligence. All of these are news that is brought by new technology. And Slovenia, of course, now so much is said about Uber, the word Uber is not in any article, nowhere is it. There's no such thing as transportation. And those who want Uber to ban or similar technologies as you mentioned, I ask you why for God's sake you don't shut down the country for imports of articles that are supposedly produced in some controversial environments where there is no human relationship to workers, to the production of labour, to why you don't shut down the country, and to become an island, a self-sustaining island. Why don't you shut down the country for imports, for all those articles that are allegedly produced in disputed environments, they work for the rice tarp. I don't know. I don't care. I want to know that I actually get an article at the right price, that it is quality, that it is safe, that it is not harmful to the environment and that health is not harmful and so on and so on. Thus, Slovenia remains an island within the European Union that does not allow the arrival of digital platforms or providers, which offers its entire service through the application and drivers act only as its partners. The quality of the offer of these partners shall be measured by an assessment in the form of stars assigned by users to drivers. As can be seen in the countries of the European Union or in the United States, this leads to a quality offer, but at the same time puts drivers in an unenviable position where they have to work at all times and at their own expense make each journey easier and better for users. With the amendments to the Road Transport Act, we have, of course, followed the example of developed and digitally advanced countries, where changes have proved positive. By amending the law, we want to modernise and digitise the existing system, allow greater competitiveness in the field of taxi services and provide users with better and more transparent services. By means of a proposal for legal amendments, we also allow the price of transport to be determined by using an electronic application that informs passengers of all key elements of transport, such as the price of the service, the route to the destination, the driver's and the vehicle's taxi data. Well, I'm familiar with all the information. For example, when I call a taxi at Brussels airport to take me to, say, the European Parliament, I pay once 40 euros, once 80 euros, because I don't know where he's driving me. Now I'm going to know in advance, and that's why I've already used Uber and been driving for half the price, well, half the cost for the National Assembly was cheaper. Since the passenger is in advance aware of the price and other characteristics of transport, the possibility of abuse is impossible and maximum transparency is ensured, while digitisation also has a positive impact on the transparency of payments, as any traffic will be recorded on the platforms to ensure the traceability of transactions. By amending the legislation, we want to introduce a level playing field for all providers - a level playing field for all providers - while both existing and potential new tenderers will have to respect all legal conditions. Also in the new proposal, which we are currently considering, we are maintaining state licences and it is everyone who wants to carry out transport through the application that will have to have a valid licence, like all other carriers on the market. The conditions, including the requirement of impunity, will therefore be exactly the same for classical taxi drivers and those who will use the applications. All potential new providers will have to have adequate insurance and, of course, the FURS – the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will be vigilant over the payment of taxes. It is perfectly normal for us to have different views in this debate in Parliament. One's for, one's for, one's for, one's for, one's for. I'm in because I used to live with transports.org when it started. In this group of university-graduate engineers there is also, I am proud to say, our Matjaž. Yes, and to conclude, there's so much talk about socialists and so on. Little for the cheers, socialists now, according to these debates, drive exclusively in reverse, we, in New Slovenia, coalition and others who support this news drive forward into the digital future of our country. I will not support the amendment of the Left, but I will gladly support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u120	Uber Corporation and Uber Platform are in no way comparable to the transport platform.org, which was created in exactly the same way that platforms should basically be used – as a solidarity mechanism with which people interact, in order to lower costs and optimize their resources. Uber is nothing like that. Uber is a profitable corporation, with countless accounts in tax havens that come into the country as a grasshopper, destroy domestic taxis, take over the market and wind up prices for passengers. If we don't recognize the fastest member of the National Assembly running as soon as it shakes a little bit, then God help.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u121	Thank you very much. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Replicas per replica [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, there's no replica to the replica. It will be, Mr. Horvath. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u122	Mr Vice-President [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u123	There's gonna be another application, and you're gonna answer it. [[…]] Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. Four panellists have been reported. The first one gets the word Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u124	Thank you, President, for your word. Now I will first respond to my colleague Horvat's remarks on two statements, he mentioned the service too.org and the fact that this platform exists in Slovenia, probably for 15 years, as mentioned by Mr Horvat, but the fact is that we have not changed legislation because of the establishment or formation of this platform and today we are changing it. In addition, the important difference between transports.org and Uberje is that one organisation is non-profit and the other one is very profitable or wants to be profitable is not, and I will explain why it is not. And the second question of Mr Horvath was whether or not Slovenia should close the entry of foreign digital providers and this is a matter of pure deception. We have a bunch of digital platforms in Slovenia that I probably all know about Wolt, Airbnb, Netflix. Now, I will start by saying that I am in favour of the amendment of the Levica Group, which proposes that the members of the law or the amendment of the law concerning this service firm or the cooperative model should be suspended for 10 years. And I'll tell you why. Because today’s novelty is a typical example of a logistics law and you could easily say lex Uber. Here are four reasons why the proposed novelty is unacceptable. From abroad, we all know the business model of this cooperative economy, or I will say in concrete terms that Uber usually enters the market in a way, dumping, subsidising transport, subsidising drivers and later, when he creates a monopoly in a particular area, raising prices and looking at the novelty proposed by the Government, precisely for this reason, is said that when the company charges later, you removed from the law in Article 57 concerning the highest transport price that is possible today in the law. As far as driver work is concerned, the fact is that with this novel you're increasing the predation. In fact, in Article 56 of the novel, you delete the condition that the transport undertaking has employed drivers and this is nothing more than an increase in precaration. And we know the case from abroad when drivers are in a substantially subordinate position compared to the contracting authority, they cannot negotiate either for working conditions or for the price of the service. There is a risk of working and other means of work on drivers, we are talking about a vehicle. He has been violated the right to privacy, i.e. the application controls him nonstop, union organization and so on. And it is not an excuse that we have heard several times in this National Assembly to deal with the problems that arise in the field of labour law in the case of existing taxis of transport. On the contrary, we will increase them. And I don't think the problem is the law, the problem is the conduct of inspections. And if the inspectors were to do their job, if there were more, I believe that they were also fed, then, even under existing legislation, there should be no labour law in the case of taxis. Now, if we look at what's going on abroad. In Bulgaria, Uber ceased his activities after being accused of unfair commercial practices. In Denmark, taxis became mandatory Uber withdrew from the market. We're doing the opposite. We take taxis out of the law. In Hungary, the Government has adopted legislation saying that drivers and drivers of Uber are in breach of regulations applicable to taxi drivers. And because Uber didn't want to change his legislation, I'm talking about Hungary, the company doesn't work there. In the United Kingdom, Uber lost his driver status suit, and the court ruled that Uber had to hire them. And I could list a few more of these. At least one of the key things that is changing in the novel is that you are loosening the conditions for obtaining a licence to carry out transport. In particular, a company wishing to carry out road transport today must meet six legal conditions, inter alia, it must have an adequate financial position and must have adequate professional competence, and you are deleting these two conditions with this novelty today. And at least in my opinion, this will have an impact on the safety of passengers, given that under the condition of professional competence, participation in seminars in various fields, including road safety, is also envisaged. And let me say that what you are doing is really deleting these two conditions, even in contravention of the regulation of the European Council and even more, through this new vehicle rental institution with the driver you are adding the possibility that drivers will be able to carry out such transport without licences, I am talking about Article 57c of the new paragraph 2. And the fourth reason why I think this novelty is harmful is for tax policy and the revenue from the state treasury is falling. We know that digital companies are in a way masters of tax optimisation, and taxes are generally paid where they're most valued, according to the tax oasis. And if we look at Uber, which, let's say, takes up up to 30% of the commission, this commission lands on a company's account abroad, which means that our country has nothing of that money. This means that the income that was created in Slovenia has nothing. And in LMŠ we are convinced that the company must pay the tax where the service was performed. And let me remind you that in the LMŠ and in the rest of the opposition, we have recently tabled a proposal for the introduction of a digital tax, which this coalition has simply overrun. So why am I saying that this novel is about lex ubre. In Slovenia, there are quite a few companies in the area of the cooperative economy, and we have not changed legislation for any of these companies. And here we're changing it, obviously. In LMŠ we are not but we are against the collaborative economy, this is a model of the future, and I absolutely agree with that. However, we are convinced that the rest of the areas need to be regulated first and that sectoral legislation needs to be amended. I am speaking, of course, about the tax area, I am talking about the labour field, and then we can also change the Road Transport Act. And after this proposal of today's novel, I will not personally support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u125	Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. Of course, I agree that there is also a question on the so-called digital tax. When it is accepted by this National Assembly, it is difficult to predict. In the OECD area, even the European Commission does not yet have any agreement on how this tax would be introduced. Let's face it, Cerarev and the Sharčev government have already been busy and wanted to make some moves in the field, and now I'm going to say in general, the dividing economy, it didn't work. It didn't work out. And you had a comfortable majority to do it. It seems that the current arrangement of the classic taxi, that this is the optimal, best at all and oh regulation, our colleague Tadeja has had a very bad, very bad experience, as the union has protected her, she said herself and I will not repeat it, but you can read it. So you want it to be as far as it is, that abuse as a colleague has experienced. Certainly not progress in terms of new digital technologies. We are first in favour of abuses, that the law will have to be rectified, but of course there is a need for supervision. We have a FURS, we have a tax inspection, we have a work inspection, but there is still one that is needed to actually control all these matters. I simply insist that I have a much more competent opinion of experts here in this area, once again Mr Marko Grobelnik, the Institute of Joseph Štefan, the Slovenian messenger on innovations in the development of artificial intelligence and, of course, also the AMC, director and many, many others. Young people want digital platforms, I don't need to be taught that Uber and transport.org is, that it's the same. For me as a user, it's all about getting a good service, but it's not expensive. And I conclude that no one will think that my colleague Kordish insulted me. You know who he is, and he can't hurt me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is Love Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State. Good bye to all of you! The topic of taxis was very widely discussed on the home committee. And somehow this debate on the parental committee has finally provided very clear answers why some so strongly oppose the introduction of digital platforms in the field of taxi transport. On the one hand, at the time, we heard the very bad situation of taxi drivers. As they work through their working hours, do not get paid overtime, do not get paid transportation to work, in short, from Tudeja's colleague, we have also heard how much of the supremacy, what street is in the city, Ljubljana, where the actual law of the stronger law applies, and if you break this law stronger, you are in danger and so on and so on. In short, representatives of taxi drivers were and very clearly presented, very well presented in what a bad situation taxi drivers are in. On the other hand, those who object to the introduction would say new platforms or arrangements in the field of taxis, but you always point out how bad the driver and taxi companies will be. And I wonder if they can still be in a worse position than they are now? Thirdly, it was a very interesting discussion by the president of the union representing taxi drivers. In the introductory debate, however, she merely attacked the coalition and the government, preparing bad laws, how everything was wrong and so on. What is the union's task, but it is not the union's task to protect workers, to improve the situation of work, she has not heard anything about the fact that they have been denied the rights of taxi drivers, she has not heard it at all, and it is not in her duties after her mind and after her discussion. If I were to conclude, her only concern is to bring as many people to the protests as possible. This is the task of union trustees today, this is the modern task of union trustees. This is the only task for its employees, and this has not been given in a single word to the committee to improve the condition of taxi drivers. Not a word, look at the magnetogram, and it was very clear how their rights were reduced, their rights under the Labour Act were violated. But she didn't say a word. But she let herself know that it was her job to bring her members to protest. Now, from this, I would say, this debate gave a very clear picture of why this law is opposed to the introduction of order in the field of taxis. Very clear picture, very clear answer. This answer is to keep the situation as it is. This is said to be the state of anarchy, the state of irregularity, the state of law of the stronger, the situation of the king of that corner of the street, which has already been distributed in advance throughout Ljubljana to remain this situation. This is, read the committee's MRI, the parent board, you'll get this answer very clearly. Very clear. Because that's what anarchy fits. And today, everyone who advocates keeping it the way it is, is defending the continuation of anarchy. In the field of taxis. Now, as far as digital taxation is concerned. I don't think this digital taxation is that far. Look, I'm not exactly being taken to the floor right now, I don't know, ten days ago, about, it was the European Commission's decision to tax all online procurement from the Far East. Isn't that digital taxation? Yeah, no. This is said to have already been introduced, so here, I would say, with this rapid development, there is also power, I would say, digital taxation. So not here now, I'd say, manipulate all the money out of the country, so the state doesn't have any of it and so on. And you only talk and you only mention Uber and Uber. This could be ten other companies that can re-position themselves in line, I would say, by setting up this digital platform for taxi transport. And in the Republic of Slovenia they can function normally and normally pay taxes. There's no limit here. The easiest thing to do is to defend anarchy and the existing state. That's the easiest thing to do. And I believe that certain comparisons from different parts of the world, where I would also say there are small and large violations, and they are exemplary. We're not all the same. We don't all steal and we don't all cheat. A few of us are honest. But I'm not talking about myself personally, I'm not talking about hurting anyone personally, I'm not talking about any personal level. There are machinations everywhere, and they have been, and they will be in the future. But let's not take this as an example. We apriors look at this by giving you the opportunity to machination and other irregularities, to give you as little opportunity as possible. And if we introduce a digital platform here, where traceability is complete, inevitable, there are also machinations, and we narrow down the manoeuvre space. Today, however, this room of manoeuvre is wide open. To that end, I've made this comparison. So now I wouldn't have someone making the wrong comment on my thinking. Only this possibility is to narrow down the possibility and with such transparency, I would say, platforms where all data is known, the possibility of machining and irregularities is very small. The space of manoeuvre is small and we must all work together. That this does not actually happen in our country, small Slovenia, beautiful Slovenia, and this is the basic purpose of this law. The thing about the area is that taxis are arranged and it will be good for all users, it will be better for both taxi drivers and, finally, for the country that will collect some taxes from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Ah, the replica, yes, here you go, Mr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u130	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be brief, but I've got to respond to my friend Gniedar. When he mentioned that with this novel we will narrow down the possibility of abuse I have now made very clear in my debate, but he obviously did not understand me well that with this novel we will increase the possibility of abuse, that is, we know what the business practice of this company, which it does not want to name, and I, Uberja, will know the judgments from abroad that have clearly found violations of labour law. [[…]] So my personal conviction is that the possibility of abuse will increase further, but it is true that the problem is in inspection controls. Already under existing legislation, these abuses could be substantially reduced, and I will say again, in Slovenia we have a bunch of digital platforms that we use, but for none of them we have changed legislation and that is a fact. And the third thing about the digital tax is, of course, this legislation is being prepared, but it's been preparing for years and I'm very skeptical that the digital tax will be introduced, as far as the collaborative economy is concerned, within, I don't know, years, two years. I'm afraid it's going to take a lot longer and that's what I've been warning you about, and at that time, the money will flow abroad. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u131	The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me. Replica, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u132	Thank you. A replica because I was obviously misunderstood. How misinterpreted I can be, and after I have worked very hard and fought for the favourable working conditions of drivers in this country since 2014, let them drive for GoOpti, buses or various taxis, it is not clear to me. We do not want, in Levica, as socialists, to keep things the way they are, because at present there is indeed anarchy and a complete market in the field of taxis. We, on the other hand, advocate a democratic planning economy and regular employment for everyone and this Government, especially the Ministry of Labour, under Nova Slovenija, could carry out targeted supervision of the work inspection in the field of taxis and provide regular employment contracts for all taxi drivers that are currently being squeezed by dispatchers. Is that done? [[sign for the end of the debate]] No, he's doing the opposite. Instead of the various small masters who are being persecuted in Slovenia in their violations, he drives to the country with changes in legislation and the large carrier boss, which Uber, a live control officer in this country cannot call to account because he will not have an address, not a TRR, nor anything, will have a bank account in a bank oasis in the Netherlands. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Tina Hefferle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yes, I will be brief, too, but I must respond to some of the discussions of my predecessors. It is very unfair and misleading to say that there is an anarchy in the field of road transport in Slovenia, as Mr Ljubo Žnidar spoke about and wondered whether the situation of taxi drivers could be even worse. Yeah, of course it's easy. You're making it worse with this bill, and it's not true that you're canceling or correcting the taxi driver's position with this novel. To say that such a law as you now have on the table is necessary because people support it because people want these changes, as we have heard from our colleague Montenegro. I respect every opinion, every debate, but the fact is, if I were to adopt laws in this country, just because people want something, then the question of what kind of legal order they would have, or vice versa, if I didn't adopt some laws that people don't want, is also a question, right, like the Water Act and so on. The fact is that this law, which we are dealing with today, does not essentially address the content in an integrated way and creates, in my opinion, more open issues than it solves them. That's the problem. And it does not address in any of the articles of the situation referred to on both committees, when this law was being dealt with, colleague Mrs Tadej Šuštar, does not address this issue. I am talking, of course, about precarisation, the violation of the labour law by taxi drivers and so on. This marriage, this novel doesn't refer to it. Let us be so honest, and let us not be misled by people who may be following us. The government, in my opinion, should be so responsible with all this apparatus it has, that a law such as that of a giant like Uber would not blindly accept it if you wanted or did not accept it at a time when it had not previously prepared an integrated problem in relation to labour legislation. And if I had not previously prepared all the necessary legal changes to address tax legislation. This government has not done so, we have already heard this in several debates today, and it is really nothing more than a lobbyist law. We've heard it's a lex Uber, which, in my opinion, the text of the law doesn't even have to have the specifically mentioned Uber. If you go to read the contents, you can see what's following this law. If not otherwise, by the introduction of a new institute, it shall rent a vehicle with a driver for whom it will not be necessary to have a licence to carry out the transport. And here, Mr Horvat, he is very misleading when he says that all those who will be carrying out road transport will still have to have licences. That's not true. Rental of a vehicle with a driver, where essentially the transport will take place in exactly the same way as if we called a taxi, the driver will not require any licence for such a transport. And that must be acknowledged and said out loud. In fact, in law, the conditions for road transport are being broken, standards are being adapted and reduced, of course, to someone other than Uber. Instead, Uber would, if he wanted to enter the Slovenian market, adapt his business to Slovenian legislation. Now we're doing the opposite. We are adapting Slovenian legislation to some Uber. And that, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the LMSH, is not okay if I say very briefly. No one speaks to the LMŠ Group that we have opposed to regulating the cooperative economy in some way, but not in the way that you have done it in this novel. We also have digital shipping apps by Horvat, of course, today. Uber's not the only one. But we didn't go to change legislation for anyone, just for that company. Now you tell me if it's not obvious it's a lobbyist marriage, lex Uber. Before making such changes, which, of course, are not entirely laid down today, nor properly laid down, and before any customer satisfaction we have heard, people want, people are for change, every responsible government should have primary concern for Slovenian citizens and citizens who will carry out this activity on the market, and each government should first make sure that they are not denied the right of workers to avoid situations such as the one described by fellow Šuštar. And just for the sake of clarification, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, and the union is not about keeping an eye on violations of labour law. This is what I believe that we all know in this house that there are inspectorates for this and it is not right for us to place this responsibility on a union representative for violations of labour law. However this novel is not integrated today, it is not for the benefit of those who will continue to carry out this activity, but it is for the benefit of an online giant and perhaps some users who are using this service without thinking that there is much more to it than the satisfaction of Mr Horvat who is using this service. It's unacceptable, and I'm not going to break the novels today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm on my way. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u136	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to thank my colleague and Vice-President here, and even now, Madam President Tina Hefferle in my name and also in Jozet's name and on behalf of New Slovenia, it seems that we have a new admirer. Digitalisation is inevitable and we are aware of this in this hall, at least those who look forward and throughout Slovenia, Europe and the world. Once again, the current proposal is without prejudice to a change in the working relationship, and here it must be clear and loud to all those who have spoken differently. Maybe that, some of you want to remind us that we are lobbyists of some, some corporations, because in my predecessor, when she used the word Uber I stopped counting at number 12, it was only at the beginning of her discussion. I don't want to be a lobbyist for some American corporations, but if someone else uses their name more than 12 times, maybe they're paid on their behalf, but let's just leave it. I would like to take a few more questions, perhaps even to discuss a colleague who has been very insulting in the past. I think he has also violated Article 8; the Member must be dignified, respectful, patient and non-discriminatory. We see this in particular when the arguments ran out and we saw the same mode of operation in taxi drivers when they ran out of arguments, when they saw that this law would go through they stopped arguing their case correctly and they started threatening, they threatened even the Minister himself and also some Members. Whether this modus operandi is alone of one person or of the entire customer, judge for yourself. I will be happy to support this law, this law is for the benefit of citizens and citizens, it has also been stated in the survey itself, it has been clearly defined that users and users want changes in this area, they want clear pictures, transparency and, above all, some of the normal costs they will have in using this service. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Montenegro. First of all, don't worry, I'm still just your fellow Member, not a fan, so let's get this straight. Replo wanted Mr. Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u138	So it's obviously a lobbyist marriage, says the following. At the Ministry we write legislation that will mean Uber's arrival in Slovenia. Jernej Vrtovec, Minister, 3 June 2020, one year ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Reploco wanted Mr. Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. I am aware that we are in the National Assembly and that the debate is more than political, but I would also like to hear arguments or arguments from Mr Chernigo, which I have cited in the debate, and the fact is that this law is a law that is written according to the measure of one corporation. So, above all, my replica is due to the fact that we are clear that we have no arguments, and I say that we have not heard any arguments today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word of this? [[No, no, ……]] If not, we're closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We turn to agenda item 17 – to the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national language policy programme 2021-2025. At the previous point [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'd like you to raise your hand a little sooner to see you. Here you go. You have the floor. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm sorry, but I've been waiting for the Members to be exhausted and to respond to some of the allegations. I heard Uber, Uber, Uber this time. It's not the Uber Act. It's not the Uber Act. And as many times as you've done an ad to this corporation today, free of charge to those who oppose this law, they can only thank you if they come. This is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. You're talking about two articles that, in practice, I haven't heard anyone talk about what's essential, even about, I don't know, integrated public passenger transport, about how we talk about certain things, about how we define a range of lines, a standard of accessibility, a standard of quality for public passenger transport, but just one article. In addition, Member Paulič, or Chairman, of the Heferle. Article 19 of the third chapter of this Act, which is not open at all, refers to the fact that the right, as stated in Article 19, first paragraph, is that the right to manage the activity of road transport of passengers or goods in inland road transport is obtained by means of a licence. Which is the third paragraph of Article 57, the rental of a vehicle by a driver which speaks of transporting from the first paragraph, that is the rental of a vehicle by a driver, may be carried out by persons licensed to transport passengers or a licence for motor taxis. Therefore, it does not claim to be able to carry out transports without a licence. Don't hold it. But now I'm going back to what was, as far as workers' rights are concerned, etc., exaggeration, etc. The bill does not improve the working conditions of drivers. You talked about the fact that the driver’s position is already poor, or taxi drivers, and that the law will only make it worse. That's illogical. We do not interfere with the labour-legal relationship with this law at all, nor with the legislation which has been found. Excess, as some Members have found, taxi drivers have been a reality for decades. He's here. Today, many of the drivers who are espouses are likely to continue or gain additional profits by introducing new digital platforms. Everyone will be free to choose in this way when using a taxi meter or digital applications, which, of course, will have to meet very strict conditions. Greater choice will benefit users, both domestic and foreign, as well as service providers. The law, in our view, certainly brings greater transparency, which is now clearly needed and will benefit both domestic and foreign users. The fact is that this law, by this law or by its application [[?]] law, changes and additions, we modernize an outdated system that currently prevents advanced technologies, applications, if you want, wireless payments, and we will end up getting the most users of taxi services. I would also like to go back to the area that we are regulating, so in the field of public passenger transport, in order to simplify the system of uniform tickets for integrated public passenger transport, we are introducing a legal basis for determining, as I mentioned in the introduction, the bundles of lines as units for the development of the assemblies, which will now be needed as the tender comes in the framework of the concessions for the implementation of the economic service of inter-terranean bus services. Underlying competition, the Ministry of Infrastructure, along with inspection services, will make sure that there is no unfair competition between different forms of services. Therefore, we believe that taxis and rentals with drivers will be placed under equal market conditions. They must both have a seat in Slovenia, a passenger licence and a municipality permit, if so prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Just for an explanation for the viewers, from this town [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u144	One more please I forgot [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u145	Secretary of State, I'm asking you not to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u146	It's purely procedural. In the beginning, I'm your expert. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u147	Mr Secretary of State, but I can ask you to show me first with a gesture that you want a word, and then don't take the floor for yourself. I wanted to explain to the audience because I believe that maybe not everyone knows, from where I am, I have no right to replicate and I will not replicate you because I will not allow myself such a violation. Now you do not have a word yet, because Mr Paulič has first entered the floor. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Paulich, if you'll excuse me, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u148	Yes, thank you very much, I will nevertheless respond to the words of the Secretary of State, because I was also explicitly mentioned in this implementation. First, I will say that I miss some specific answers from the Secretary of State, let's say on the subject of tax legislation and on where taxes will be paid, in Slovenia or abroad. I didn't hear that answer today. However, I expect the Secretary of State to come forward because he has already expressed his wish. [[sign for the end of the debate]] , and explained it. As for the licence itself, it was again, I will say, misleading by the Secretary of State when he read only one indent of Article 57c, the rental of a vehicle with a driver. He read that transport could be carried out by persons licensed for the carriage of passengers or a licence for the carriage of motor taxis, but he forgot to read the second indent which had the applicable licence referred to in the preceding paragraph and this paragraph spoke of the possibility of [[sign for the end of the debate]] the municipality grants the possibility of transport to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u149	Yes, thank you very much. Now you have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u150	Madam President, I apologize. So, cumulatively, Member, the condition must be met. Both. Secondly, what I forgot to say at the outset is that the Government is proposing to the National Assembly to carry out the third hearing at the same meeting today. I apologize for this flaw, and once again, I apologize for taking the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u151	Yes, thank you very much. We will take note of your procedural proposal, but it will still have to be put to the vote when we decide on the second reading first. Now we really end with this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Commentary motion for a resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2021-2025 The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Dr Ignacija Friedl Jarc, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u152	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the motion for a resolution on the national language policy programme 2021-2025. This motion for a resolution is, in fact, the third resolution on language policy, which began in 2017 after the adoption of the mandate of the current Minister, Dr Simoniti, we re-examined the motion for a resolution, reviewed by the professional services, put in inter-resort coordination and endorsed the proposal by the Government in March. As regards only the resolution on language policy, its adoption is extremely important, as it is a strategic document for the next five years and provides the profession and policy with a solid basis for a sound and systematic direction of the language situation in Slovenian society. It is also bound by the execution of certain invitations to tender. As you know, we have also been able to include in this year's budget the implementation of the Law on the provision of certain funds for emergency programmes in culture, and in this context there are also calls for language technology. The general goal to be followed by Slovenian language policy in the period 2021-2025 is to ensure quality language life for all. Both professional and policy have identified several challenges at the level of strategic documents in recent years that the resolution is also trying to address in an integrated manner. The state, influence and effects of the language policy are prominently reflected in the language culture and language landscape of the country, speakers everywhere are confronted with the visible use of Slovenian and, of course, also with inappropriate use and infringements. The provisions, regulations and laws governing public use are insufficiently binding and effective, and we stress the need to increase the supervision and action of the relevant inspection services if we are to ensure, of course, the growth of the language and use of the Slovenian language in the public as wide as possible. The second part is devoted to language education, which is also an extremely complex area of language policy. Thematic clusters that the resolution wants to link into a harmonised whole are Slovenian as the first language in Slovenia, Slovenian as the first language in the world, Slovenian as the second language, Italian and Hungarian national languages and the Roma community, languages of members and members of different minority ethnic communities, languages of immigrant communities, foreign languages, persons with special needs and adapted methods of communication in higher education and others. In doing so, we stress that the resolution is written in a way that enables and, of course, ensures the urgent participation of all relevant stakeholders in this area. However, the aim is to ensure the appropriate circumstances for the implementation of these activities and, of course, also to ensure the acquisition and knowledge of languages and to strengthen our linguistic capacity. In the area of linguistic equipment, the last resolution recognised the challenges that require rapid and effective action and covered both language and regulatory challenges as well as language technology tools and resources. The development of information and communication technologies in this millennium creates a globalised environment in which, due to a possible backlog in technological development, individual languages may be less attractive, remote and, therefore, in the long term, also at risk. Especially when it comes to national languages, this can have widespread negative consequences for society. In this respect, the resolution also ensures the implementation of certain programmes for language technology, the acquisition of language technology and other equipment. From July to December 2021, Slovenia will chair the Council of the European Union for the second time. And during the Presidency, both Slovenia and Slovenia will receive significantly increased protocol and media attention, and appropriate rules will be prepared in our service. Taking care of the reputation, visibility and promotion of Slovenia will therefore also be considered as a permanent task, as it is considered to be a permanent task of Slovenian Language Policy, will also be considered an important objective during the Presidency. Although the national language policy programme responds to the overall linguistic political situation, it is at the heart of its concern and proposed measures, namely [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u153	Madam Secretary of State, I'm sorry, but you've been out of line for a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u154	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u155	You have 5 minutes for further explanation, so I suggest you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u156	I'm sorry. I'll finish. Just a sentence. Thank you so much for the heads-up. So, Slovenians at all levels of the language, that is to say, are also spoken. However, we must stress in this regard that the resolution on language policy is focused on the current language situation. So, taking into account the current situation. However, of course, this does not include in any way the historical specificities of individual language speeches in the territory of Slovenia and to take this into account other legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture as the working body by the mother, and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Violeti Tomić, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. At its 12th regular session, the Committee on Culture considered a motion for a resolution on the national language policy programme 2021-2025 submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption to the National Assembly. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative of the State Council and the representative of the Institute for Slovenian Language at ZRC SAZU and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education and Sport participated in the meeting. A motion for a resolution was sent to the Committee. Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, report of the Commission on relations with Slovenians in place and around the world, opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, position of the Institute of the Association of Interpreters for Slovenian Sign Language and amendments tabled by qualified candidates of SDS, SMC and NSI, SAB, LMŠ and the proposal for amendments to the Committee. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups took due account of the comments made by the ZPS. The representative of the Council of State, which supports the motion for a resolution, presented the position of the Association of Associations of Blind and Disabled Slovenia and the Association for Language Technology. The chairman of the Slovenian Language Institute at ZRC SAZU estimated that it was a materially corrected document and assessed that it was a, he pointed out that without financial support he would not achieve the effect that experts had foreseen. [[…]] The representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport said that the document appropriately referred to areas which were crucial for the continuation of processes in the verticals of higher education and science. In the course of the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their support for the motion for a resolution that adequately regulates a number of issues and focuses on the field of language education, appropriately addresses users of the Slovenian Sign Language and persons with special needs, and the means for language preservation are increasing in view of the previous resolution. It embraces a number of measures for reading culture and literacy, fosters the development of consensual capacity and a positive attitude towards language. It promotes digitisation and language infrastructure, and it focuses on technologies that make information accessible to the blind and visually impaired. It has been pointed out that Slovenian language is the foundation of our people, and we must therefore care even more about it in today's era of globalisation and digitisation. Throughout history, Slovenian language has demonstrated its outstanding fighting spirit, which has enabled him to develop and survive. The language connects people of different beliefs who find a common language through it. Additional proposals were put forward for the individual objectives and measures of the resolution proposed at the Institute of the Association of Interpreters for the Slovenian Sign Language. Among other things, a more precise definition of the role of the Council for Slovenian language, accessibility to technical equipment, support to the Association of Interpreters for Slovenian Sign Language, as promoter of Slovenian Sign Language, interpretation remotely and so on. Some discussers pointed out the shortcomings the resolution should contain. Promotion of Slovenian language studies at Italian universities and so on. Advocacy to strengthen Slovenian women at the Universities of Trieste and Vidma, employment of additional assistant teachers and assistant teachers from Slovenia, as additional assistance in teaching Slovenian in Usage. It was pointed out that the Premur language was not mentioned in the resolution and therefore the amendments proposed by the Committee relating to the need for awareness of the importance of the Premurjean and the co-financing of projects that enabled the development and promotion of the Premurje language to be maintained. The criticism also referred to the absence of a timeline for the implementation of the objectives set out in the resolution, the lack of additional concern for the availability of literature in the Slovenian language, the critical situation in the field of reading and reading literacy of young and adult people, the lack of attention [[sign for the end of the debate]] written words, overuse of foreign languages, language issues and so on. After the discussion on the individual chapters of the motion for a resolution, the Committee adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI and SMC coalition's parliamentary groups, but did not adopt amendments to the SAB, LMŠ and the Committee's amendments. The Committee voted on all chapters of the motion for a resolution jointly and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated motion for a resolution is prepared, [[sign for the end of the debate]] where amendments are included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, she gets the word Mrs. Tadej Šuštar. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Today we are considering a resolution on the national language policy programme 2021-2025. According to the previous resolution, language conservation and development funds are increasing, which is what we strongly welcome in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. From the previous €23 million, the funds are increasing to €44 million. Slovenian language policy ensures the highest possible quality learning of Slovenian than the first language in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the widest possible accessibility of Slovenian teaching for Slovenia and Slovenia, outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. In the educational system, he tries to take the needs of those children and young immigrants who have a different language, including deaf and deaf children, into account as much as possible. It also promotes improvement in adult speakers who are second or third - language Slovenian or who are learning Slovenian abroad. The aim is to provide the speakers and speakers of the Slovenian language with language skills and awareness and to achieve the ability to effectively use the first foreign language, and to develop another foreign or additional language, in accordance with needs, both in the field of general and professional use. Slovenia undertakes by resolution to promote mutual understanding, solidarity and social cohesion. Language education plays a key role in the implementation of these guidelines, and teachers and teachers of Slovenian, other languages and other non-language subjects have a special role in development. Key support for these activities is provided by school libraries whose role needs to be strengthened. The resolution encompasses a number of measures for reading culture and literacy, promotes the development of a coherent capacity and a positive attitude towards language and language culture in the social environment. Slovenian language policy is also accompanied with particular attention by learning Slovenian as a neighbouring language in Italy, Austria, Croatia and Hungary. The measures in the resolution are more intensive and have more resources for it. In the area of language equipment, the resolution also promotes digitisation and language infrastructure, which requires rapid action, as there is a key presence on the global web. It is important that much attention is paid to technologies and digitisation, which also provide access to materials and information for blind and visually impaired, deaf people, people with linguistic problems and people with dyslexia. It is the ability to express and interpret their thoughts, feelings and facts, both orally and in writing, such as listening, speaking, reading and writing, and communicating with one another in a language appropriate to the way of life, education and education, at home, at work and at leisure. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will unanimously support the proposed resolution as it provides additional means for the development and use of Slovenian language and also encourages digitisation and technological progress in language and mutual communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Today we confirm the third resolution on language policy in the last 30 years, this time for the period 2021 to 2025. As we have heard on the home committee from the representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the resolution provides a professional and policy basis in the field of language policy, and the most general value of the resolution is to ensure quality language life for all. We have also heard a great deal of efforts to further develop Slovenian without unnecessary foreigners, and we are grateful for the increase in the resources allocated by the resolution to the implementation of the measures. The resolution focuses on the areas of language education and language equipment in general language culture and language landscape of legislative and other legal acts or documents of Slovenian language policy and on the current Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the EU. The last is an opportunity for all of us, which we can use at this time for greater recognition of the Slovenian language beyond our borders. It is also evidence, as some have already said on the working body, that we will overcome the discourse on the smallness of our cultural and linguistic space, as the size of the nation and the recognition of the language is not measured solely in population numbers and square meters of the territory. It is therefore of paramount importance that the resolution devotes even greater concern to reading culture and literacy. Special attention is being paid to developing a coherent capacity and a positive attitude towards language and language culture not only in the educational process but also in the family environment. Emphasis is also given in the Slovenian Sign Language and in persons with special needs who realize their contractual needs in many ways significantly, with a Braille, with increased printing or other tailored means of communication. On this occasion, we welcome all efforts to maintain a single cultural space, including our relatives, in place and around the world. The Slovenian Community in neighbouring countries, home and evictions have found special places in the resolution with concrete objectives and measures to ensure the possibility of completing linguistic capacity in Slovenian for members and communities to promote the use and learning of Slovenian in all interest groups and to strengthen interest where it is weak. The measures aimed at strengthening the position of the Slovenian minority fully address the continuous research into the national, social and linguistic situation of the Slovenian community, the use of the Slovenian book language and its versions, as well as the narečije. In a new resolution, we find measures designed to preserve the Slovenian language culture and language landscape of the country. In addition to the measures provided for in the resolution, we must not forget that each of us is responsible for helping to raise awareness of the importance and role of the public use of the Slovenian language. Slovenian is for some native languages and for others the language of the environment in which they live and create. It is therefore important that measures are aimed at promoting the learning and use of the Slovenian language, not only at all levels, but also for all target groups. All this present resolution on the national language policy programme makes it possible and encourages. We will, of course, support the motion for a resolution in the Modern Centre Party Group. Finally, I am Prlečka, and I hope you all know what the first Slovenian camp was in Lotmerka, the centre of Prlečka and on these camps they fought for our language. There's something else I need to tell you all about, and I'm gonna fill it up real good. [[?]] Who congratulated me on my election to Parliament, he finally told me, and this beautiful accent he kept, and that's what I'm holding on to. And now we invite Mr Jewish to present his amendment to us in full in a beautiful suburban. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u164	Respectable. The mother tongue is the foundation of the identity and culture of the nation, an individual. It is important that we cultivate motherhood as individuals, but that is not enough. Professional and policy must also look at its development and preservation. And the main basis and basis for this is the resolution that we are considering today. It is based on the essential guidelines on which the profession and policy guide the language situation in society, and therefore it is very important which content points to the document, what it focuses on, how it is structured, what novelties it brings compared to the previous version and so on. At the time of the consideration of the resolution on the working bodies, I have stressed that the document is good, transparent and well distributed. An overview of the responses to the draft resolution showed that a number of important comments were taken into account and comments by the public concerned could also be given greater consideration to the sections. I also stressed at that time that current social political developments are well integrated into the resolution. One such is the inclusion of repatriated persons. We know what efforts were made in 2019 by the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, then under the guidance of our Minister Petr Česnik, that we brought people of Slovenian descent from Venezuela to Slovenia. And it seems very good to me that this group was immediately included in the programme, as part of the Slovenian sub-chapter as a foreign language. The previous resolutions did not include them, and it is clear that this is a good response to developments. The fact is that knowledge, as it is for members of national communities, minority ethnic communities, immigrant communities and so on, is crucial to enable them to learn Slovenian. This is the essence of having equal opportunities for employment, for access to information, for development for life in general. Another positive thing is that in the motion for a resolution there are also steps in the direction of demobilization, in the form of removing administrative barriers, such as easier access to university education in the Republic of Slovenia for those who use Slovenian as their first or second language living outside our borders. This is the real debirocratisation which could also serve as an example for the drafters of the law on debirocratisation, which, as we know, also touches on a number of issues that have nothing to do with debirocratisation. The resolution also welcomes the attention given to the world's concerns and, in this context, the attention paid to digitisation, which marks and will be more marked by all areas of our lives. Despite the good things I have pointed out, we believe in PS SAB that the resolution could be even better. We regret that no amendments have been adopted on the working body of the opposition opposition groups, which we believe would have improved the resolution. Nevertheless, we will give unanimous support to the SAB Group in the document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Alenka Jeraj, presenting the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u166	The adoption of the resolution on the national language policy programme 2021-2025 of the strategic document for the next five years is important because it provides the profession and policy with a solid basis for a deliberate and systematic orientation of the language situation in Slovenian society. The new resolution focuses on the field of language education and language equipment, in general language culture and language landscape, and on the forthcoming Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union in 2021. The strategic orientation and focus on the implementation of key areas of language policy over the next period allow for more systematic and coherent delivery of tasks or measures. The four main chapters of the national programme are: first - language education, second - language equipment, third - legislative and other legally valid documents of Slovenian language policy and fourth - Slovenian as the official language of the European Union. Names of different institutions, businesses, shops, restaurants and facilities and events are at the forefront. In short, names and announcements and advertisements in the non-Slovenian language. All such names, advertisements, invitations and similar in a foreign language, in particular, are so much more questionable and incomprehensible because they are selected, used and published by Slovenian legal and natural persons, and are intended primarily for the Slovenian public, users, and more and more for years. The provisions, regulations and laws governing the public use of the Slovenian language, as shown by the professional records, contributions to the media, studies, research and the like, as well as the findings of the competent inspection services on citizens' complaints, are too binding and effective, sometimes too restrictive, but sometimes unclear or inconsistent when new different language-use situations arise and allow different interpretations. We should also cover or take into account the broad needs and different interests of users and users of the Slovenian language in all areas of public life, and some legislative changes will probably be needed. The supervision and action of the competent inspection services will need to be increased. Of course, the nationality of mixed areas must also be governed by the rules of bilinguality. It is a matter of concern that in the last international comparative study on measuring the competences of adults in Slovenia, in all the areas measured, it is also below the OECD and EU average for textual skills. In Slovenia, as many as a third of the population between 16 and 65 years of age have such a low level of textual skills that they are hampered by work and social inclusion, and are only able to read short and simple texts. Furthermore, the results show that the higher level of skills is closely linked to the higher level of productivity in employment and income. Priority of the language policy of the Republic of Slovenia to the best of knowledge of Slovenian language, consistent provision of Slovenian company names and awareness of the specific status of Slovenian as a mother language, especially in areas outside the Republic of Slovenia. In line with the tradition of a positive evaluation of the knowledge of different foreign languages and in view of the modern needs for competitiveness, openness and democracy of Slovenia, language diversity is taken into account and the promotion of functional diversity. The aim is to enable Slovenian speakers and speakers to be trained and educated and to be able to make effective use of the first foreign language and to develop a second foreign language or additional language in accordance with the needs of the general public in the field of professional use. This should strengthen the awareness of the position of Slovenian as an official language in the Republic of Slovenia, the fact that Slovenian is the mother tongue of the majority population, as well as another or foreign language for many speakers and speakers of other mother tongues, and the equivalence of all languages. In the Parliamentary Joint SDS, we will support the resolution on language policy for the period 2021 to 2025.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Aljaž Kovacič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The third resolution on the national programme for language policy, which will be in force for the period 2021-2025, aims to transpose and maintain the objectives and measures that have contributed to the positive results and improvements in the area of language policy in the course of the previous periods. In the future, the resolution will also build on measures because certain gaps have been observed in the implementation of the measures and the achievement of the objectives. This is particularly important in modern times when the legitimate preservation of Slovenian is threatened. Increasingly notice the use of slang as well as the use of English as the first language, for example in advertisements, designations and invitations. This is both a violation of language rights and the majority. In addition, for the self-limiting of Slovenian in public use. In Slovenia, however, it will also be necessary to take a step forward towards the objectives set and measures to improve literacy. According to the latest OECD 2012-2015 literacy data, Slovenia was on average 16 to 65 years of age, depending on the average of EU and OECD Member States. One of the key factors for improving reading literacy in the future may already be increased interest in early childhood reading. For language equipment will also be an important transition and development of digital literacy, which has proved necessary during distance training. In particular, when certain technical problems occurred at national level at the time of the COVID-19 epidemic. In particular, Slovenia will have to monitor the situation in neighbouring countries, especially in Italy and Austria, and through diplomacy also try to move and work to safeguard the authenticity of the Slovenian language. We must not forget that as early as last year, at the 100th anniversary of plebiscita, on the initiative of the Slovenian Consensum for Constitutional Rights, the Association of Korean Slovenes and Slovene Slovenes and the Club of Slovenian Students and Students in Koroškem, Celovac, Vienna and Graz warned that Austria does not fully fulfil the rights of the minority. In the LMŠ Group, we also wanted to upgrade the resolution in good faith and to supplement the resolution with amendments that referred to the greater encouragement of the promotion of Slovenian language worldwide through lecturers, but the coalition rejected the proposal. We have also tabled amendments to the comments of the Slovenian Sign Language Interpretation Association Institute in the LMŠ Group, which would complement the resolutions in the light of the sign language. Nevertheless, the coalition voted against the adoption of amendments that would contribute to the resolution in terms of the sub-section of the Slovenian Sign Language, which grieves us. Nevertheless, we will support the amendments and the entire resolution in the LMŠ Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u170	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State and co-worker, all hailed. The resolution before us today is an important state document and I say in advance that we will support it, both Members of the Social Democrats. I've decided not to talk about history, it's an important document and it needs to be supported. But I want to talk about three more things. On a polite request and an invitation to honourable Members and Members to support the reference to the Premurje language in the resolution. The Prekmur language was already a literary language. The Prekmur language is a language that now has the status of both supernatural and regional language. The Prekmur language is a language that is included in the description of the intangible cultural heritage. The Prekmur language is a language on which the existence of our minority in Use really depends. Finally, Dr. Kozma Ahačič on the committee responsible supported the entry of the Premurje into this important document. Mr. Doctor is not someone, he is the head of the Institute for Slovenian Language Fran Ramovša Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Secondly, honourable Members, last week we voted with 78 votes in favour and without vote against the Act amending the Slovenian Constitution. As the fifth country in Europe, we are talking about using and developing the Slovenian Sign Language, using where both minorities live, their sign language, and as the world's first country on the language of the deaf and blind. It is right that this area will be further elaborated in the future resolution. And finally, honourable Members, I believe that we are all paying attention to the letter we received only yesterday. It is a letter from the Auto-Moto of the Association of Slovenia and the Union of Consumers. They warn that more and more devices are linked to digital governance and, as a rule, to foreign language. And they warn themselves of danger, because all people of foreign languages do not understand, and I will point to another danger. To the extent that the Slovenian language is not used in this world, the Slovenian language leads to the so-called folklore language. This is now the greatest challenge we are facing. The challenge that must be met with these strong 40 million, which are at the disposal of the resolution, is indeed supported and a challenge that must be better addressed in other legislation. Thank you for your attention, honourable Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija will be presented as the last position of the members' group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u172	Thank you very much. [[Incomprehensible]] The motion for a resolution on the national language policy programme ahead of us in Levica is, of course, supported. This is the third such resolution. This is the third such resolution. Among the general objectives are the awareness of the role of the public use of Slovenian and of the different needs and means of communication within different groups and the added value of multilingualism in multicultural society. Other objectives include language monitoring, special care for people with special needs, access to quality Slovenian translations of foreign language works and quality translations of Slovenian works into foreign languages. In particular, in the area of translations, we think we have a motion for a resolution to be overstretched. In particular, I would like to highlight the important role played by the development of literacy and reading culture in order to effectively communicate. All modern technology does not help us much if we do not encourage people to read at all stages. The sad state of functional reading and language skills can be seen at all levels. Technology is no longer important in this regard, whether it is classical or e-books, a number of studies show a great advantage in reading books in physical form. In particular, physical reading of books has an impact on the ability to remember, as several anthropological moments have been involved in this form that affect the memorization technique itself. To put it this way, this is the very way in which the brain stores and connects the information it receives, which goes beyond a mere text or content level. Another aspect of the use of Slovenian, which has experienced several pressures in the past, I would like to remind you of the use of Slovenian language in science. The excessive use of English in particular, or the reference to its wider value, is in the long term devastating for the development of Slovenian scientific terminology and scientific writing in general regardless of the scientific discipline from humanities to technical sciences. An important area is also the use of Slovenian as an official language. With emotional competences for working with people who are increasingly lacking in different staff and should be much more stressed in their employment, it is precisely the upgrading of the linguistic capacity of public servants of exceptional importance. Let me add to this the admission of various foreign-language names of companies in their registration, to which you have all previously warned. Activities in the field of our minorities, in particular bilingual, educational and cultural activities, as well as the promotion of the use of Slovenian between foreigners, locals and emigrants and the learning of Slovenian as a second or foreign language, also require special attention from the home country. Let me just remind you of the importance of the development of the Slovenian Sign Language, as well as the use of Slovenian for blind and visually impaired and deafness. It is also a good constant support for the implementation of mother tongues, not only between children of officially recognised minorities and Roma, but also among immigrants. But it must be implemented in a way that does not in any case ignore the role of Slovenian. One important tool for popularising the Slovenian language is certainly the digitisation of resources and their open accessibility. In this regard, I should only remind you of the need to digitise the existing written and spoken Slovenian material as quickly as possible and to store it in the most open access. This is particularly important in the case of intangible linguistic heritage, i.e. spoken and spoken language, which is increasingly melting into larger units, with a particularly minor variety of uses disappearing, which could have been determined for some local language use over a longer period of time. Of course, greater fluctuations in the immigration of the population, which is made possible by a modern way of life, also contribute to this. It is precisely for the purpose of the resolution to protect and promote the use of the Slovenian language that I must point out that the latter use of some unfortunate words should point out the repeatedly used word relationship as the dominant role of Slovenian in official and public life. Slovenia is the official language of the Republic of Slovenia and a constitutionally protected value, so we cannot talk about its dominant role in the country of origin. In Levica, we regret the fact that the Committee on Culture, at its 12th meeting, on 15 May this year, rejected all the additional opposition's comments on improvements in the contractual role of the Slovenian Sign Language, the status of interpreters and interpreters and the availability of technical and software for remote interpretation, which goes directly to the detriment of persons with special needs and tailored means of communication. This is particularly worrying as it happened just before the signing of the Sign Language into the Constitution. Nevertheless, as has already been said, we will support the proposed resolution and in the end I will just say something from my previous and future foho when you all speak at home today. Go to the library and read books or borrow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the chapters and amendments tabled. To Chapter 1, introductory wording, of Chapter 1.4. The holders of an active language policy, I shall put to the debate Chapter 1 and Chapter 1.4 entitled Active Language Policy Carriers and the amendment of the SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] He's registered to a mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u174	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm not going to repeat my arguments because I've been talking for a while now. I just want to give you one explanation at this point. Many contributed to the existence and development of Premura, including the people who are here, including Mr Jožet Horvat. I'm aware of that, and I respect that. It would be ideal for us to succeed in the premurk language as a kind of gift to Prekmurks and Prekmurks to enter into the resolution when the actual resolution, if there were no change of governments and similar things, would probably be adopted by 2019. This is at the time of the accession, i.e. at the end of the 100th anniversary of the accession of Prekmurje Slovenije and the accession to the Slovenian people. But sometimes it's better late than never. That's an important argument for me. I was also asked why we did not come before the committee meeting, where we could talk and get wider agreement. Here I must say very openly that I am not a member of the committee which is responsible for this area and the reason that I was there was only help to a Member who could not come, so the way was that I came directly to the committee with the amendments. The support given by the head of the Institute for Slovenian Language of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts was extremely important. And I want this kind of debate not to be political, but it has happened that a specific Member has come, because, at the time, such a situation with this amendment, anyone else could have come, and that is why the honourable Members, I am asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague. True, we cannot and must not argue over our mother tongue. But my colleague Mojca Žnidarič impressed me with her gossip, because I was right to say, and let me say something in Prekmurje instead of the introduction. Mater's language, the dagger too dear, which gave us these mothers a living memory of their virtues, let us kiss you with all our soul and honor you above all else. Live, live, live, live, live, live, live, live. This was written by Joseph Klekl Senior, the spiritual father of the merger of the Premurese Slovenes with the native nation just over 100 years ago. Since I like the anniversary of ladies and gentlemen, one 100-year-old is also very important today. In a way, I regret that he did not bow to her, but there is still time, including the National Assembly. In fact, on this day exactly 100 years ago, on June 1, 1921, the first group of Primors and Istrians settled in an empty dock to the present colony in Petišovci near Lendava, Prekmurje. Seven coastal refugee families with 31 members arrived. Seven additional families followed them this year. This is very important for the Slovenian language, and later I will count the villages that were occupied, where they settled, these are Slovenian villages today, in fact, islands, Slovenian islands. After 22 with the closure of the refugee camp in Strnišče pri Ptuj, the immigration of Primors and Istrians to Petišovce, Benica, Pinke Marof, Kamovce and Dolgo continued in Petišovci, between 1921 and 38, over 1300 Primors and Istrians arrived. They started practically out of nowhere on the worst wetlands. The film Primorski exodus monitors the thorny life path of the coastal refugees, their unwavering energy of life and their will to create a new life in Prekmurje. With great renunciation and great effort, they built a modest home, acquired some livestock, and were convinced that their suffering was finally over, but that was not the case. World War II took place in 1941. The Prekmurje area came under the control of the Hungarian state. Immediately after the takeover of the management, all immigrants to Prekmurje were relieved after 1918. They were deprived of everything except the house and the shelter. So in the winter of 1941, 1942, they survived with supplies from the previous year or with slave labor from the locals, but that was not enough. On June 22, 1942, all coastal and Istrian refugees were exiled together to the Sarvar camp in Hungary. They spent the next three years there. Upon returning from the camp, they found their homes completely looted and destroyed. They started building their own village and possessions again, they insisted. First, they were driven only by the coastal and Istrian reeds. Ladies and gentlemen, it is right that at this Jubilee, 100 years of the migration of the first coastal refugees to Prekmurje, we remind ourselves of their thorny path and show their rise in the defense of Slovenian language and Slovenia. A fellow Jew spoke of the suburbs. I'm glad, a lot of this was written by linguist Marko Jessenšek. He says that the premurje term is increasingly being established in the wider Slovenian space. We know Wilko Novak wrote an old book-writing dictionary. So, Premurst is a book language. Sometimes in a joke, I say that we Prekmurke and Prekmurke are phenomena, that we have two mother tongues with one mother. We're born into the country, and then we're educated in Slovenian literature. The Prekmur library language was formed in the Slovenian language space similar to that of Kranski in the Alpine region. [[Incomprehensible]] Both are a foreign product of Protestantism, due to changes in the Western European Church at the end of the Middle Ages. The believers needed to be taught to read and write that they could read the Scriptures themselves. During the period of Protestantism, this brought the first books, the alphabetists describing people, the catechisms being the first textbooks, and the ultimate goal being the translation of the Scriptures into national languages. This work, as we know, was done in the centre by Trubar, Krljej, Dalmatia, in the 16th century, in the east, and thus by Temlin, North and Štefan Kuzmič in the 18th century. Kranski and Prekmurje have been confirmed as a book language by the translation of the book of old books, which can only be written in a highly developed and cultured book language, by no means in a simple language that lacks words for such a magnificent work, lacks sufficient form of language and harmony and is in a spirit of insufficient virtuosity. That's enough. I believe we're all proud of the nation we're born into. I believe that we are all proud in the Slovenian language, which connects us all and we can be proud that on 1 May 2004, this Slovenian language has also become a very important European language, because we can speak it when we come to the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[Yeah.]] Mrs. Moica Znidarich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again! I will start by saying so, because the resolution itself is moving us towards avoiding unnecessary foreigners. I avoid them in my own speeches and writings, and I don't use the phone that won't use Slovenian, not because I don't know which foreign languages, but just because they don't want to try to be in Slovenian, and I actually support this proposal, which I found in electronic mail today, which the Slovenian Consumers' Union sent. It is true that many consumers, I think the Slovenians of many instructions are no longer in the Slovenian language when we buy a product. But we're probably too late for that now. Of course, I'd say something about this amendment tabled. In fact, the Slovenian language is essentially the most diversified language. We've got 30 orders. And on a committee on which, for several reasons, this Committee on Culture, on which I have replaced myself, I have abstained with this Committee or this amendment. So, as a matter of fact, I'm not a member of this committee, so I went for a quick replacement. The amendment was also tabled just before the committee. And, in fact, that is why I am not against the entry of, of course, the premurje or greater mention of the premurje in this resolution. But, of course, I have doubts about what this entry would be – the entry of only one title, or the possibility of ignoring the remaining orders, or the opening of Pandora's box for the entry of all other words into the resolution. But the lines, like all of them, as sayings, are, of course, also mentioned in this resolution. And secondly, as I said, I don't know if you all understood the first Slovenian camp in which they fought very hard for our Slovenian language, but it was in Prlekia, not Pomurje, not Prekmurje. So in 1868. So I'm gonna do the same thing I did on the board, and I'm gonna hold on to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuš also wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u180	Yes, thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! I don't think I have much to say. Well said Mr. Jew, Mr. Horvat, even better. I have no problem with this motion for a resolution. Of course we'll support that. However, I also announce that we will also support the amendment proposed by the Group of Social Democrats, the Left and the Sab, so much on my part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I am concluding the debate and I am putting yes to the debate, Madam Secretary of State, please. [[…]] And I'm really asking you to give a little louder indication that you want a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u182	Thank you very much. [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u183	There's a microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. I'm sorry if I'm not loud enough. I'll make sure I'm clear and loud and short now. They were, I think it is right that, given that the debate on the Committee on Culture was mentioned, I would like to make two clarifications so that there are no possible misunderstandings. [[…]] This was the first time that Slovenian sign language and amendments were submitted. In particular, it is considered that the Slovenian Sign Language is explicitly set out in subsection 2.2.3 in the resolution on language policy and that the measures as well as indicators to monitor the implementation of the Slovenian Sign Language Policy are also extremely fragmented. With regard to the amendments themselves, only operational levels of control have been touched and we can understand that they could not have been – these amendments could not have been adopted given that they have already been legally defined - are the supervisory bodies within the Ministry of Education, which supervises the implementation of these measures and indicators. [[…]] So much for the gift to the Slovenian Sign Language, which is certainly also for the preparation of those who have been preparing the resolution on language and which we are investing in the procedure. [[…]] Certainly, so as not to be misunderstood, it is certainly not questionable as having a special place within the resolution. The second, of course, is the issue of premurishing. I would like to make it clear that the Ministry of Culture has dedicated a very special place and a special gift to the Ministry of Culture by declaring it, of course, as an ancient language, a intangible cultural heritage, which is also included in the register of intangible cultural heritage. This means that it has absolutely recognized its outstanding role in the history and development of the Slovenian language and that, of course, in this context, the Premurst receives a special place and also the possibility of projects within this area applying for all the tenders that the Ministry of Culture for the Inconstant Cultural Heritage each year. On the other hand, it must be stressed that we are adopting a resolution or that we are proposing, of course, a resolution on language policy for the period 2021/2025. This means that this resolution records today's language status and the situation of the Slovenian language at all levels, but, of course, to the book language, and proposes measures and objectives for the development of the language resulting from the current state of affairs. And if we look at the current state of the premurst, it is described in the register of intangible cultural heritage in this way: Premurstina has settled as one of the Slovenian orders and is part of the Pannonian narrative group with the name of Preleški Halo and Slovene Gorge. Today it is used as a circuit language in the family and the local environment. What does this mean, of course, that Premurje and its status today, namely, only those, from the point of view defined by the resolution on linguistic policy, are one of the Slovenian orders. And as this National Assembly is, of course, the home of various parliamentary groups, so the resolution on linguistic policy must also be the home of any Slovenian speaker, either a noun or a Slovene or a conversational or, of course, a provincial conversational language. So if we put only and only premurish within this situation today, the question is what will be the origin of the representatives of other law enforcement groups, Gornje, Lower, Styrian, Pannonian, Koroška, Primorski or Roktarski. We must understand this proposal at all and only in this respect, or we must evaluate this proposal, and of course, at no time do we deny the specifics of the old Premurje library, its exceptional contribution to the development of the history of the Slovenian language and, of course, treat it in this respect in the same way as Trubar language and all others who have been extremely important in the history of the Slovenian language as part of our extraordinary insubstantial cultural heritage, and in this respect the premurje has already been legally recorded. I would just like to add so much to the explanation itself and perhaps just a note about the syntagma of "the dominant role of Slovenian in public and private life". It is written solely because, of course, everyone has the right to use the language he wants to use in private life and, of course, we cannot prescribe Slovenian as the language commanded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u185	Thank you very much. He wanted the word "magic." Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u186	I would only like to thank the Secretary of State for all the nice words you have spoken about the Premura language, but I would also appreciate it, but I have also said this in essence, that it was very important for all of us there, when the head of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts also agreed to sign up. And there's something else I'd like to say. This is now this resolution with a concrete proposal, there are countless arguments, some of which my member of the Pomura House has already said, some of which I have told, but I also have to tell all the other Members and Members when we are also accepting new, other documents and when you come. I'm not going to see it as a competition, I'm just going to see it as an upgrade and let's please understand it that way. So we're not competing, but we've presented the arguments, and you, Madam Secretary of State, I respect them, you see that I don't want to confront you at all, because this was a place on that particular committee, which was also respectful, by the way, that no one will think that there was anything particularly turbulent. I said my request, and let us all go on and on and on again, but remember what we did today, yesterday by the Union of Consumers, that, with all our taking over, if we do not quickly and efficiently regulate the digital field, we will end up talking only about the folklore language. This is our biggest concern, and I know that we are aware of this, we have talked a lot about this in the past, but in fact we are not effective enough, and the question is in fact what needs to be done. This is the collective effort of our people that will be needed and, finally, when they speak, I think that at this point 7,000 languages are active, and these posnoses, which are ahead of us because of globalisation also in the digital one we have spoken, are an incredible risk ahead of us. Let's keep talking together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u188	Thank you very much again for this initiative on the use of foreign companies in the names of companies and, of course, in other public uses in digital tools. And I must admit that the Slovenian language service at the Ministry of Culture is constantly alerting and also sending warnings to the competent inspection services on such use and initiative. Also with regard to Slovenian programmes in Slovenian in digital tools, I must point out, on the other hand, that inspection services are independent in their work, that at the Ministry of Culture we are aware of the situation, we are studying possible legal changes that would allow for such greater control over the use of Slovenian at all levels of public implementation of Slovenian and public life, and that we are also trying to do so in future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u189	Thank you very much. If there is no longer a desire to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am also putting to the debate Chapter 2, subsection 2.2.1.2., entitled External Republic of Slovenia and the amendment of the SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 75th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 5 p.m. and 30 minutes. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 16.59.) (The sitting resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u190	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: agenda items 19, 5, 11 and 17. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda – this is the consideration of the proposal for a consultation referendum on the adoption of the draft law on the National Demographic Fund. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: a consultation referendum on the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund shall be held. Explanation of the vote by Mr Mesec on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We will, of course, vote in favour of the consultation referendum on the National Demographic Fund in Levika. As I said before, this is probably one of the most important laws we are considering in this mandate, the question of what will start with €8.4 billion of state property, how will state-owned enterprises be staffed and what will be the future of jobs there. The problem is that the name of the national demographic national fund is misleading. This fund does not save demographics, nor will it bring the euro into the pension register, which you recognize even some in coalition lines, but at the same time it cannot solve the Slovenian state property hole in the pension cash register in one way or another. This year, €170 million of profits from state-owned enterprises are foreseen, on the other hand, the pension facility has one billion more hole than this, and this cannot be compensated for by the profits of state-owned enterprises. So when we talk about why the National Demographic Fund is the answer to this question elsewhere. And the answer is frame. This fund will reorganise the management of state assets in a way that will ensure that every time a ruling policy is fully controlled over state assets, that coalition parties and the Government set up a full 11-member supervisory committee and that it appoints a 3-member board of directors that will not be bound by Lachovnik's law, its remuneration can virtually be unlimited. The recruitment opportunities are open to a wide extent, with lower standards for the intended experience for supervisors and managers, lower standards for the required qualifications, lower standards for the receipt of business gifts and so on. Now, who's gonna profit from this after the last few months of this government? Anton Krkovich now suddenly promotes the drawings write the sun and energy in the Gene-I, so says. Dimitri Rupel became director of the Public Book Agency. The Director-General of Post Slovenia is someone who has twice unsuccessfully run for mayor of Poljčan, a place with fewer inhabitants than has a post office and so on. In short, I don't want to live in a country where capable people get kicked out of positions, but there are some unsuccessful candidates for mayors coming in by a party who just says it's not for the mayor, but it will be for the director. I don't know if this is the future we want to see, but it's definitely not a demographic fund or a solution to a demographic issue, on the contrary, people will be even more fleeing from this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In your own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u193	The demographic fund is supposed to have two tasks. If we read it with emphasis on the first, i.e. demographic, we should patch a hole in the pension register from the dividends of state property. If we read it with an emphasis on others, in line with this, we should ensure transparent, high-quality management of this state property. It is also promoted by the Government of Janez Janša along these two lines, and these promotional claims unfortunately do not survive the meeting with reality. If we look at this year's pension deficit, which is covered by the state budget, it is €1.15 billion. Here we have to think about another 300 million euros, as much as we would need them annually for long-term care and an additional 600 million euros for parental protection and compensation. The number that a safe age in this country needs to move in order of EUR 2 billion. Now this is compared to the contribution to the pension fund that the dividend demographic fund is intended to make. 40% of the €171 million dividends foreseen for the state budget this year are €68 million. 68 million Euros against 2 billion Euros of needs. The demographic fund of Janez Janša is clearly not intended to save pensions, but something else, which leads me to the management issue. The government of Janez Janša does not face some kind of environmentally friendly or environmentally friendly way of managing state property. Above all, the government is interested in how these 80 billion euros of state property can be subordinated to themselves and their networks. This does so in a way that undermines the existing standards applicable to the takeover of management positions in state-owned enterprises, by completely subjugating, practically completely subjugating, and opening the door to the privatisation of state property. I will therefore vote in favour of the call for a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. Like I said in the debate, evil metastasized. Money is power, no matter where that money comes from. And we missed a lot of opportunities to stop the accumulation of power in a suspicious way of earning money in time. You know exactly what I'm talking about. Next to money is a winged one that should really be max. And let us be clear that the government of Janez Janša by setting up the demographic fund does not care about pensioners, but only for its own sole purpose of accumulation of power, accumulation of money, staffing and so on. We saw what they did to the media. However, it privatises the last remnants of state property because the SDS explains all the time that the state must withdraw from the economy, of course, unless we are a country. You know, we own these last remnants of state property we are citizens and citizens of Slovenia. And we will not allow you to privatize it just like that or so that you will pay some debts for your electoral stew or for the media that Hungary has so generously given you. It is said that the property of the state will be decided by the owner and no one else than the owner. And we know who owns it. The owners are citizens and citizens of Slovenia. And only they can decide what to do with this property, so I will support the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 46. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union in the framework of a shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in addition to the proposed law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the legislative and legal service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 2. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 1. 6. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the left-wing group to Article 16. Miha Kordish on behalf of the Member of Parliament, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, chairman. This amendment aims to delay the implementation of the provisions of the lobbyist Uber law for a decade in the future and is the last formal attempt we have in Levica to stop this Uber danger for Slovenian taxi drivers and to regulate taxi transport in the Republic of Slovenia. Why we are so against the arrival of Uber Corporations in Slovenia, it is only necessary to look abroad. Wherever Uber appears, it completely destroys the standard of living of taxis on the one hand and raises prices for carriers on the other. Doesn't look like it right from the start. Uber comes into the country like a cute, "cortcana" animal with very much money, promoting himself among people. The carrier shall drive the vehicles referred to in point A to point B at dumped prices and, if possible, pay the taxis even above the tariffs applicable in each country. In this way, each type of “dumping” provides a monopoly on taxi transport, but this is also the point where masks fall. Once Uber has a monopoly, it turns out to be what it really is. The online platform, which for the first time does not employ its employees. Secondly, it pays them at such prices that, from the perspective of Slovenian labour law, they are, say, illegal. Thirdly, consumers get priced. But since he has taken a monopoly position, he becomes indispensable for carrying out certain taxis in the country, and from this position he can then force on one side of the taxi, on the other side of the country. Of course, taxes don't pay. The money Uber receives in a given country is flowing into the tax havens in Europe. This flow of money runs through the Netherlands. What remains in the home country where transport is carried is social problems and workers on the st.p., who cannot survive with the income from Uber's chauffeurship' in any way. Therefore, too many cities in Europe have been banned by Uber. Let me only expose Frankfurt, Barcelona and Sofia, even though we can find another one. There are also countries that, under the threat of destruction, Uber, have committed themselves to improving the position of their drivers and to further protecting taxi drivers, as Denmark has done. The same moment as Denmark [[sign for the end of the debate]] She protected her chauffeurs. Uber picked up a seam and hooves from the country. That's exactly why we're adopting this lobbyist Uber Act today. Not because Uber would not be able to function in the Republic of Slovenia at this moment, but because if he were to work here and now, he would not be able to carry out social dumping. You should pay taxes, you should pay taxis according to the standards that apply. Yeah, those standards are bad right now. Taxi bread is [[a character for turning off the microphone]] It's heavy bread. But instead of helping taxi drivers, as we want in Levica, the government of Janez Janša wants to press them further and destroy them into predatory corporations. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u199	As you can imagine, in Levica we will vote against this “disgusting” Uber law, which is so passionately advocated by Minister Vrtovec and supported by the entire Government of Janez Janša. The first reason is labour rights. In my previous explanation, I described Uber's pressure on labour rights. I'd like to stay at this point for the next one. Uber in Slovenia will not have its legal-formal exhibition. He won't have TRR, he won't have anything to do with existing taxi services. Even when the work inspector finds that there is a hidden working relationship and that Uber could hire a taxi driver on the st. p., he will not be able to provide him with a regular contract, regular income, leave, health care and so on, because he will not be able to act in Slovenia on a legal person to whom he could address the requirement to issue a regular contract of employment. All the work inspection can do is send letters to the Netherlands where Uber is located in Europe. How successful these letters are, you can imagine, Uber is laughing. The second reason we can also draw from Uber's status, not as an employer, but as an online platform that avoids hiring its employees is their tax status. In mid-May, even a contribution from the Australian survey was published in the Finance Journal, which found that Uber in the Netherlands avoids paying taxes through the network of 50 straw companies. Ladies and gentlemen, 50 straw companies, so that Uber does not pay a single cent of tax, no matter what profit it generates in the home countries where he carries out transport. That's exactly what's gonna happen to us. Minister Vrtovec and for him the coalition species insists that everything will remain the same as it is. That the only question was asked by a taxi on the phone or via apps. And so that taxes will also be paid in the same way as they are being paid now. That's not true. Uber in this country won't pay a cent of tax, no matter how much he earns.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-01-SDZ8-Izredna-75.ana.u200	We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 36. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national programme for language policy 2021-2025. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 1 May. 6. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the SD, Levica and SAB groups to Chapter 1, Sub-section 1.4, by the holders of the active language policy. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 37. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD, Levica and Sab groups to Chapter 2, subsection 2.2.1.2 outside the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 38. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the home labour body or at the meeting of the assembly would make the motion for a resolution inconsistent. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. [[The vote was 89.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 75th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
