ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 67th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, Article 90 and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 97th meeting. 3. 2021. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mateja Udovč until 3:30 p.m., Anja Bah Žibert, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, mag. Alenka Bratusek, mag. Dušan Verbič, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec from 2 p.m. on, Gregor Perič from 4 p.m. on, Dr. Franc Trček, Gregor Židan, Brane Golubović from 12 a.m. to 14 p.m. and Marijan Pojbič. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, cooperation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using a remote meeting application in the form of a video conference has not been announced by any Member or Member. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers and the Acting Minister, the Secretary-General of the Government, to the 1st item of the agenda. Representative of the State Council at the 8th item of the agenda, representative of the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia as representative of the 5 thousand voters and voters at the 10th item of the agenda, Minister of Culture of Dr Vasko Simoniti at the 19th item, representative of the Council of Justice at the 22nd item and representatives of the Government at all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. Procedural proposal, colleague Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. In the SAB Group, we have addressed a number of questions to the Government and several have not yet been answered within the deadline, so we ask that you, with the authority of the President of the National Assembly, invite the Government to answer questions within the deadlines, especially those relating to the Coronary Supplements paid to the most vulnerable workers who have worked in the most difficult epidemiological situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u3	Thank you very much for the suggestion. We will further inform the Government of the unanswered questions raised by the Member States. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 42 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers and the Acting Secretary-General of the Government shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister or the Acting Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Acting Secretary-General of the Government shall provide him with a written reply within thirty days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, Dr Jože Podgoršek, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and Dr Anže Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, apologized for today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the President of the Government and also to all colleagues and colleagues! Last year, we were all forced to tackle the Coronavirus epidemic and mitigate its consequences as a matter of priority. Despite the difficult times, much has already been done for the pensioners during this period. I am pleased to say that in the last year, for the older generation, at least in terms of improving the economic situation, we have done the following together: twice the solidarity crown allowance has been paid, the pensioner's pensioner's pension regress has been higher than before last year, and several times we have been correcting pension legislation, it has continued to eliminate the backlog in the coordination of pensions arising from the previous economic crisis. With last December's extraordinary December harmonisation, we were able to reduce the backlog of non-alignment by as much as 5%. The economic crisis manco is thus still 3.6%. Before the time, more precisely in September 2020, you have already announced that, if favourable economic forecasts are to be made, this deficit or backlog in pension payments will be possible. In this regard, I am interested in: Can pensioners actually expect this reconciliation this year and when? I ask the second question regarding the treatment of the already proposed and difficult to expect long-term care law. At the time of the Ministry of Tomaž Gantar's proposal was already in the final preparatory phase, with a public hearing completed and just before the government hearing. That is why, President, I am asking you about the time-table for the adoption of the bill. Do you intend to amend the concept of the last text of the proposal with the new Minister? If the answer is yes, I would like to know: What kind of a change would it take? I thank you in advance for both of these answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u6	Thank you very much for both your questions. Indeed, last year, the pension generation experienced extensive corrections as regards the elimination of injustices or delays in the coordination of pensions, and as regards specific additions during the crown of the epidemic. This is logical, because this generation of epidemics has also been most affected, and this is, I can say, normal and healthy, and also the solidarity of our government or any government. The elimination of this imbalance, which was realized last year, is essentially greater, or this removal is larger than before, I think in ten years. What remains can certainly be compensated in the next two years if the economic situation is as predicted, if they are slightly better, perhaps already this year. Current forecasts for economic growth are between 4% and 5%, which is expected to be largely offset by the fall last year. However, I believe that we could be even better, and in this case we could double the coalition agreement, which amounts to 1.5% of the annual abolition of the backlog, and this would bring us closer to the final goal. At this point in time, the final answers are likely to be too early, given that the rate of recovery depends largely on the moment when we can say that we have defeated the epidemic. We believe it will be possible to give a definitive answer there somewhere in May. However, what is an obligation in the Coalition Treaty will be almost 100% possible, given the forecast of the competent institutions for economic growth this year. As far as long-term care is concerned, the law has been in consideration and coordination for some time now, and it will certainly be supplemented. There was cross-cutting coordination, coordination within the Economic and Social Council. As to what needs to be done or what measures have been left behind, there is no major doubt about the long - term care of the elderly. What requires further coordination, however, are ways of financing, the implementation of this law. If it were just for the law to be passed, we could have it in two months. However, when the law is adopted, it is also necessary to have the financial means envisaged for its implementation, not only for the following year, but for a lasting period. Here we are talking about numbers in the short term almost half a billion euros, and after five and six years over 700 million euros. In this respect, it is very important to provide some additional resources. One such indirect resource is the National Demographic Fund. Thus, the enforcement of this law is to a large extent one of the preconditions for another to be a basis for long-term care on solid foundations to be realized. In any event, it will be timely for the law to be applied in due time as from 1 January of the following year, which is the goal. It will be difficult to say this in the spring or early autumn because it is the farthest-thest-needed project in the mandate of this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Do you have a request to complete the response?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I think we are all well aware that there are currently 59 public institutions in Slovenia and 43 concessionaires and that there are about 19,000 cities for the elderly. One fifth of the population is over 65, and today there are 425 thousand. Ten years from now, it's predicted that, of course, 10,000 more of us will be. I must point out that the average age in these homes is 87 years and that 75% of the population needs the most demanding health care. In fact, they repent at seams, and at this point they would need thousands of beds for those who urgently need care in their homes. And 12 thousand people are already in line and waiting. In ten, fifteen years, the country has not actually built any homes. All bets on the concessionaires. This government will also give them a thousand 285 beds. Of course, that's all right and good. Another problem is that concessionaires usually have higher prices. And that's not all. Public institutions don't have a single price either. That's why I'm interested in: Are you going to arrange for these prices to be transformed and to at least some extent to be aligned?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u9	President of the Government, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u10	Thank you very much. This problem has been known for a long time, as well as the failure to solve this problem. It's been known for a long time, so I wouldn't even repeat these things. Further, from all sources available in last year and this year, the Government has tried to provide as much funding as possible for this problem. This is about the resources available from various European programmes or addresses and also from the domestic budget. In the coming years, Slovenia will, on the basis of what has already been concluded and approved, on the basis of what is now planned, say in the framework of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the next period, will build thousands of new facilities in Slovenia to provide care for the elderly in their homes. This is practically the only way that will affect more affordable prices or cheaper services. Where demand is significantly greater than supply, the cost problem is always present, even if it is attempted administratively. Surely there is some room for manoeuvre in the norms on which the price depends, but it will be possible to solve the problem in full on a healthy and sustainable basis when the capacity is sufficient. And that's our priority. We're working on it. In the short term, the numbers from the resistance and recovery plan will also be known when this is confirmed. In addition, additional capacity can be provided here under various so-called innovative programmes, which are also further financed by the European Union and already existing in different local communities. We are all aware of this problem, and many municipalities have already had programmes prepared, but there were not enough funds to realize it. And we are now providing these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Comrade Jurš, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u12	Mr President, you mentioned two dates. I've written these two dates down hard. I'm telling you, before these dates, I'm going to ask you the same question again. In view of the fact that I have been sitting in these parliamentary benches for some time now, I will not make a request for public consideration of this subject, as there is no possibility of adopting any conclusion at this hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u13	Dear colleagues and colleagues! If you get the word for a procedural proposal, then please use this word for a procedural proposal without saying you will not give it. The next one has the word "Victory Jelinčič noble".
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr President, in 50 countries around the world, the Russian Sputnik 5 vaccine has also been accepted for vaccination. It's basically the same vaccine as AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca is actually, I'd say, some kind of Sputnik 5 license. The British started to use this because they do not believe the American products Pfizer and Moderna, because these vaccines are about the genetic alteration of ribonucleic acid and are not known for the effects caused by these vaccines. Genetic changes in the body go to the point where there can be a lot of things going on, a whole bunch of side effects. For example, in India, there are known effects, side effects of vaccination, multiple sterility of women has occurred, and the effectiveness of this vaccine has declined rapidly. After the 1970s, the efficiency is around 20%, at the 1980s 10%, at about 5%, and the side effects are much more dangerous than the 20 to 5% virus protection. I want to know: How far is our government in the talks on the use of the Russian vaccine? Austrian Chancellor Kurz also advocates that Austria use it. However, I think that this vaccine could also be produced by the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry in Krk, if it were not mainly for the director of Krka to make profits. Slovenia must stand on its own feet and, above all, take into account the results of science, not America's private desire for earnings. I like that our government is using AstraZeneca, which is smart, but why not also take Sputnik 5. After all, this is one option, and given that the European Union will require green vaccination passports, I think it would also make sense at the level of the European Union to open up the issue and that it is also said in the European Union that not all the profits that go to some of the EMIs in the pocket, but that it is, in the first place, important to human health. So far, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u16	Thank you very much. First, let me say that all the vaccines currently used in Slovenia or in the European Union have been tested, gone through all the prescribed testing stages and are safe. All so-called cases, where undesirable effects are to occur, are analysed and studied and, with great media attention, there is even temporary suspension of vaccination in many countries until things are clarified. There is no scientific evidence of any difference between efficacy or the side effects of AstraZenece and other vaccines produced on the basis of different technologies. As far as Sputnik is concerned, this vaccine is in the testing phase of the European Medicines Agency. Slovenia depends on the findings of the European Medicines Agency concerning the use of vaccines, because we are also part of this agency. Finally, all national regulators' consent is required for approval. As a result, in some cases it took a little longer for EMA or the European Medicines Agency to approve the vaccine than it did in the United Kingdom or in America. There's a way through it. It is said that the national regulator of the Slovenian Medicines Agency could itself approve any vaccine, but in accordance with the prescribed procedure, which means that we should carry out the test ourselves and all those procedures that last for months or even years. Thus, there is no theoretical possibility that our national regulator could do so sooner than the European Medicines Agency, where the procedure is already under way. Even if we did it right away, if we did it a year ago, with the capacity we have, we couldn't have done this test on our own before. Of course, each country may also decide to use a vaccine, regardless of the test, regardless of the rules, regardless of the procedures. But so far no one has ever done it that way. Hungary, for example, which Sputnik approved, has, I think, changed national legislation, where it has also taken into account testing in some other countries, and has itself started these procedures significantly earlier. And here are the dilemmas. Although Hungary has done so, there is currently very little vaccination with Sputnik because the main problem is that this vaccine is simply not available. At the moment, according to the data we have heard from the European Commission, Sputnik is sold on the world market for 600 or even 800 million doses, and some 10 million are delivered. The satellite has the same problems as everyone else or even bigger, these are production capacities. Even if Slovenia had carried out all the tests and approved the vaccine itself, the big question was when it would have received the first quantities. It is possible to order it after some relatively simple procedures, more simple than a vaccine from China, but the delivery deadlines are such that this is unlikely to make sense at this time. As regards both Slovenian pharmacists, both Lek and Krka, both cooperate in efforts to provide enough vaccines, one also in the sense of establishing their own production. Only none of this is likely to affect the end of the epidemic in the first half of the year, which is a key priority. By the end of this year, 16 or even more different vaccines will be authorised by the European Commission. Supply and production capacity will no longer be a problem. The problem is the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u18	Mr President, the scientific difference between AstroZeneca and Pfizer or Pfizer Moderno's exposition has been proven. This is the difference between classical vaccine and gene therapy. Pfizer and Moderna use gene therapy. In fact, this is the invention of Abbott, which researched the genetic effects of cancer treatment and produced significant results. Then they started researching in Abbott in 2010. The U.S. FDA allowed the development of this therapy until 2025, but already in 2016 they discovered and patented certain patents for the treatment of prostate and liver cancer and then exclusive cancer treatment based on RNA. Despite the FDA's ban on selling patents immediately, Abbott sold patents. In 14 days when they got patents, they sold it to Pfizer. Pfizer continued his studies in this direction of genetic processing of the human body and also came to treat covid with gene therapy. The dangers that they are remind me of that publication of the Protocols of Zion’s Blues. In fact, by the turn of the 19th century, some were planning and thinking in this direction. I'm afraid this case is still going this way. However, it is important to take care of the health of its citizens and therefore I think that the Slovenian national regulator should think a little bit more about these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u20	In Europe so far, I think some over 50 million doses of different vaccines have been used. The vast majority of these vaccines are made based on mRNA technology, which is what you say is not safe. So far, too, based on this extensive test, if we can call it that, we do not detect negative effects beyond what testing has shown. At 50 million, this should probably show up. In recent months, we have often listened to these statements of confidence in science. In this case, it is not just a matter of confidence in science, but it is also a matter of practical consequences. So we can also trust experiences. If we add tens of millions more to these 50 million in Europe in the United States, in the Arab world, where they are very far away, or, say, in Israel, where they are even slowly completing this vaccination operation, then we can only find that the consequences are as predicted. There are no negative surprises outside the predicted side effects, which are relatively mild and with very low vaccination rates, the key consequence of vaccination is positive. So the virus stops, people don't die anymore, they don't get sick. And where someone gets sick, it's a disease that doesn't require hospital treatment. As far as I am concerned, it is only up to all of us to wish and hold our fists that, in fact, all production capacities for the production of already approved vaccines will be strengthened as much as possible, so that as soon as possible these doses will be produced in as many quantities as possible. It should be noted that the virus mutates and that vaccines that are effective today may no longer be effective in the autumn. Of course, all pharmacists also work on new versions of vaccines, and also from this point of view, predicting sufficient quantities and everything else is relatively risky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u21	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinčič, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u22	Mr President, if someone didn't get me wrong, I'm not against vaccination, but I'm against vaccination with gene therapy. The British are guarding their people, the Russians are guarding their people, the Chinese are guarding their people, the Americans want to serve. Why is AstraZeneca critical of these side effects? Just because of the money that's in the back. It is not true that there are no side effects in gene therapy. Yeah, there's a lot of them, they're recording, but the data's hidden. That's what I'm worried about. We have to take care of our own population. Slovenians, there are fewer and fewer of us, more and more different arrivals that are boiling, destroying ours, I would say what the living space is and also in this way [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u23	Comrade Jelinčič, where is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u24	Genetic therapy can lead to one step closer to the extinction of the Slovenian people. [[…]] That's why I'm worried. That is why I think it would be useful to open a broader debate in the National Assembly and, Mr President of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a debate on this subject at one of the next meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be posed by Tina Hefferle to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Dear Prime Minister, good afternoon! I'm going to try to be as rational as possible with the time, not to cut down on my time and your time, and I'm going to ask my question very exact. I want to know: Why has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia still not come to know the two candidates who have been elected to occupy the post of European Delegated Prosecutor? We know that Slovenia has been late since 1 March, when we have reached the deadline for appointment, and it is not insignificant that already in February the European Commissioner for Justice has asked us to hurry up with national selection procedures. That is why I do not want to argue today about the names of the two already selected candidates who have already passed the election process. I do not want to speculate as to whether this complication of knowledge has any impact on the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. I don't want to speculate about whether the government is somehow trying to influence the prosecution in Slovenia through this delay. I don't even want to speculate about whether this whole complication and delaying has any impact on the degree of rule of law in our country. What I'm interested in today is this: Why has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not yet gotten acquainted with these already selected candidates? We know that the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office provides for a procedure of choice and awareness-raising very clearly and in particular very easily. The State Prosecutor's Council conducts a selection procedure, assesses the expertise and fulfilment of all the conditions, and then sends its choice in the form of a proposal to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice forwards the proposal to the Government for information. So it's not some complicated procedure. The Government as a collective body does not even decide on this. So in this light, I am most sincerely interested today in: Why, what the Government has not yet learned about this selection process, even if we know that at any of the previous government meetings, if there was an interest in it, it could learn in the fights for two minutes, enough to read the names of the candidates and eventually add a general sentence: The government is familiar with this. Dear Mr President of the Government, my question has been very exact and I really hope that your answer will be very exact, and I thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u28	Thank you very much. First of all, I think the government named 15 prosecutors last year. This is more than any government has named annually in the last eight or nine years. As for this particular case, these two, I thank you for very clearly describing the procedure, which in itself is unusual. See, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia is outside represented by the Government, not the Council of Prosecutors and not the Ministry, but the Government. I have been paying attention to this issue in recent weeks because this issue has begun to be politicised, and I have asked some of my colleagues across Europe what their procedure is. I didn't ask everyone everywhere, but whoever I asked, they said it was up to the government. But here you are in your previous mandate or in your previous adoption of a law under which the Post Office Government is a postman. The D.A.'s Council decides and then sends it to the government and the government to get to know it without having any right to make a decision and send it forward. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is not a postman. When we examine this procedure, we examine this procedure and until the answers to these formal questions are clear, the Government will not be aware of it. And we're not missing anything. At this point, 8 countries have completed the procedure from 27 Member States of the European Union. Slovenia is among the 19 countries that have not yet completed this procedure. We are absolutely not late, and we will do the matter as it should be, in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, as well as in accordance with the applicable law, which must be respected as long as it is as it is. And this law does not set a time limit within which the government should be aware of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Colleague Hefferle, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u30	Yes, thank you very much. I would be lying, Mr Prime Minister, if I said that I did not expect such an answer. I am pleased that you are referring to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but I believe that you know, as the first man in the government, that the government is also obliged not only to respect the Constitution but also the laws. The Law on the State Prosecutor's Office provides for a very clear and very simple procedure for selecting candidates and a procedure for raising awareness at government level, as I described earlier. Therefore, we do not have any legal deficit in this place and to compare ourselves with the other European countries on a procedural basis is somewhat inappropriate, because I do not care how they have it regulated in other European countries, it is arranged for us to be informed by the government of the selection of these two European Delegated Prosecutors. If you are justifying that the other European countries, eight of them, are also late for this appointment, I have always been taught that we must follow better examples than ourselves. Therefore, if the selection procedure was completed in time and committed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to familiarise itself with it, I would expect you as the responsible one, who always likes to stress that they must respect the Constitution and laws, but in accordance with the State Prosecutor's Office Act, you should get to know it in time. And it's not true that we don't get any damage. These two European Delegated Prosecutors should start operating on March 1st, today we are 22nd, so we are late. With regard to the politicisation of this issue, we are not responsible for this, but, in my opinion, we who in the opposition warn that it is delayed, but this delay suggests at least an indication that it wishes to politicise this place on your part, Mr President. So once again, my question: When will you get to know the two candidates that have already been selected?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u32	I think I've already answered that question. The Member also did not quote that article of the law, which would set a time limit for the government to do so. Thus, it is up to the government to decide when to put this issue on the agenda. I told you earlier that we will put this matter on the agenda after we have cleared up these formal issues. However, it may also happen that we will propose a change of law, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is not a postman, but represents the country outside.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Colleague Hefferle, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u34	Mr President, I certainly agree with you. Of course, there is no time limit within which you should get to know this choice. But this is a very important new institution, where, however, there would be a reasonable deadline for the government to get acquainted with the selected candidates. With regard to this formal issue, which you stress, the law here is very clear. If you are referring to the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which provides for this selection procedure and the procedure for getting acquainted, I sincerely hope that you or your advisers are aware that the retroactive application of the law cannot apply in Slovenia unless there are very exceptional circumstances. Let me also reiterate the position of the Ministry of Justice, which we were able to hear last time on the Committee on Justice when we discussed the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. With regard to the two candidates already selected for the European Delegated Prosecutor, the clear position was that the selection process was completed and could no longer be affected retroactively by any amendment to the law. So it's up to you to get to know each other. The sooner you do, the sooner you will be able to act and the sooner we will meet all the conditions for the European Prosecutor's Office to act in the Republic of Slovenia, which it is, the last thing I believe is that our interest too, given that these two prosecutors will be investigating crimes related to European funds. We know we're getting quite a few of them in the meantime. For all of this, and because you have also mentioned in the introductory words, Mr President, the appointment of state prosecutors, where we also know that some are still waiting for both appointment and promotion, I think it is extremely important that the National Assembly discusses the prosecution in general or, if I focus on my question, why it is important that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be informed as soon as possible of the two candidates already selected as the European Delegated Prosecutor or that we discuss why this government has not been informed of this before. Is there anything else in the background - according to you, Mr. President of the Government, the politicisation of the prosecution? As a legal expert, however, I am genuinely concerned about this debate in Parliament, so I think it will be very welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The last one will ask the Prime Minister the question of Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u36	Thank you very much. In the past week, a year has passed since the current government began its mandate. During this time, it has been operating in extremely difficult crisis situations marked by the epidemic and all its dimensions and consequences. Human life, the safety of vulnerable groups and the preservation of the economy were at stake. Estimates of how good the government has played at the first half of the time are, of course, different, as they usually are. Such were the expectations of the various stakeholders. We can agree that we have managed to preserve the majority of jobs and the condition of the economy, which will be important for recovery as soon as possible in the coming months. A number of measures were also socially targeted and targeted at vulnerable social groups. Although the macroeconomic picture is relatively encouraging, efforts must continue to be made in the coming period to revitalize all social sub-systems that have been significantly affected by the epidemiological crisis. So I'm asking you: How do you assess the government's work balance in the past year and what are the key projects that the government will pay attention to in the coming year in order to make the outcome of this crisis as quickly as possible, while at the same time reliable and effective?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u38	Thank you so much for asking. As I said in response to a similar question at the beginning of the previous meeting, the government used approximately 80% of its time, resources, energy in last year's year or in the first year of the government's mandate to deal with the epidemic. This in itself illustrates quite well how much time remains for matters that have been entered into the coalition contract. Nevertheless, we also maintained the pace there more or less. We did as much as we could. Slovenia was unprepared for an epidemic. In Slovenia, in 2017, a delegation of the World Health Organization, which prescribed a series of measures that should be taken in a quiet time before the storm. None of this was done. Has anyone ever done this, we're still studying, we're investigating. If those measures, which were prescribed in 2017, were implemented by Slovenia, then the epidemic could be dealt with significantly better. And many things would have been done, which is what we need to improve the normal functioning of social subsystems, especially health care and long-term care, as we discussed earlier. One of the things that, if we look objectively, surprised everything in a good way, is the reaction of a redesigned health system, which was able from spring to autumn in the last year to essentially decimate the capacity to treat patients with a rug. If we didn't do this - it really took extra effort and, I'll say, victims elsewhere - then patients from Slovenia should also drive because of a severe second wave to hospitals in other countries. Just as this has happened to many, including countries such as the Netherlands, which were considered to have had the best health system before the crisis. The first year and all of these challenges are for us something that we also take as a lesson and a warning. So we do not want to do the same as the World Health Organization 2017 report and believe that the sun will always shine and that the epidemic will not happen again, but we want to make Slovenia, especially the health system and other subsystems, resistant to the future. We have also proposed or set this as one of the priorities for the management of the Council of the European Union. This is also a European priority in the second half of the year. Even though this will be small with the Presidency of a lot of additional energy, in the future we also want to realise the key commitments that we made when we formed the government, before a good year: debirocratise the country as far as possible, decentralise the country and ensure that the resources available are more or less accessible to those in Ljubljana, those in the Slovenian Gorica, Brkini, White Krajina, Prekmurje and so on. We have a program for that. But we also need some time and space to do so. You too need it in the National Assembly, if you consider interpolation three times a week, then you cannot deal with the laws and other measures that are essential for us to realize these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u40	Thank you. In fact, you pointed out in your answer how difficult the situation is and how things really relate to each other. Of course, chairing is one thing that is coming. But just in the light of the complexity of the situation we are in, I think we have learned something essential, that the bond that holds us together in some difficult moments as a society is essentially trust. And trust is extremely difficult to establish, and it collapses very quickly. This trust has been most reflected in the communication in this situation of the necessary measures, which I firmly believe would be even more effective if government representatives were able to communicate them more appropriately. In this light, in fact, many people wonder why you have not used the opportunities of the third government to strengthen integration and to raise your reputation more broadly than just among the former followers. Why in such a situation pick up some communication with dispatches, letters, with some premature congratulations, which actually irritates the local public in addition to this epidemic? Why not take into account in this light the fact that some such inappropriate moves are also passed on to the State’s reputation? The last story is the one with the STA. Why don't you put out a fire between the STA and Ukom? Why would crisis conditions rather be used for an ideological restoration of the country than for the resolution of the crisis itself? These are very difficult questions and I think they are important questions. In the light of the continuation of some constructive part of this coalition and some common credibility, of course, I must ask you: Are you going to continue this way until the end of your term of office?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u41	Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Look, unlike this claim, I don't think the problem is the way to communicate. That's always an excuse. The problems are where I described them earlier. Those who have or have thrown a rifle into the corn a year ago are now having a very difficult time siphoning the minds of everyone else, given the empty warehouses and the unwillingness of the country we received. If the situation were normal, then the government might have time to meet once a week and talk about communication. Thus, we had to introduce an additional government meeting to protect people’s health and lives. And it's a little bit like that, I'll say, I'm going to pass through the advice on communication from the head of the parliamentary group with one percentage of public support to the Prime Minister of the Government and to the party president, who has thirty times the support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u43	You want a word? No, no, no. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 63rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Restoršek will answer Boris Doblekar's question about the rentals of guest shops at Petrol's gas stations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u44	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Mr Boris Doblekar, honourable State Assembly, thank you for the question. Last month, I already answered the question in the field of Petrol to the honourable Member Bojan Podkorodsk. I explained that Petrol is a company that operates independently and manages it. The Republic of Slovenia shall exercise its right as a third-party owner through the annual capital investment management plan. As set out in that plan and also in the Company Act, the owners of companies cannot influence decisions on the conduct of specific business in these companies. Specific operational business decisions are the responsibility of Petrol’s management, representing and representing the company and directing the business of the company on its own and on its own responsibility. I also do not possess data on operational operations, business decisions and payments that you ask me about, except which is publicly available. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we are fully aware of the difficulties of the economic situation of a number of smaller entrepreneurs in the field of the implementation of the lease agreements which have emerged as a result of covida-19. For this reason, we have prepared a series of support measures for various economic operators during this period to mitigate the negative consequences of the epidemic. We have addressed all the key challenges. On the one hand, we have taken care to maintain jobs and on the other hand to provide liquidity. Reimbursement of part of fixed costs also includes rents. Of the nearly 140 million euro we have so far earmarked for uncovered fixed costs, 43% have been paid only in tourism activities, a good €60 million for more than 5,000 beneficiaries. On the basis of the eight intervention laws adopted, another aid of at least EUR 50 million was granted to operators in the economy, catering and tourism during the first three months of 2021. SPIRIT has called for a special call for reimbursement of part of the operating costs to guests totalling EUR 10 million. As the interest has been tremendous, we are preparing a repeat of the call of €36 million, which will be published in a short time. In order to overcome liquidity problems, however, there have been and will still be available interest-free liquidity loans. The CAP7 also lays down measures in the area of rents, leases and commercial property. Many business relations have adapted to each other at this time, but exceptions remain where this is not the case. What I can say about the lower income at the time of the Petrol epidemic in 2020, they have generated EUR 3 billion of revenue from sales. This is 30% less than in 2019. Net profit decreased by 31 %. The biggest impact on business was the decline in sales of oil products, where the 19 % drop was in trade of 3 %. These changes require measures, rationalisation at all levels of business. I believe that the epidemiological situation will soon improve and that we can expect gradual relaxation in the activities of hospitality and tourism. At the Ministry, we are also preparing a number of measures that will continue to help the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u45	Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I listened very carefully to your answer, Your Honored Minister, and somehow I expected it in this direction. Since I have only two minutes at my disposal, I would like to add that I have been turned over by many renters of the restaurant who regularly paid rent in these restaurants and fixed costs, then they gave up or exhausted their financial resources and also terminated the contract. That is why I also suggested that Petrol, the country, is a third-owner, but that Petrol or the state, including the administration here, perform an appropriate domestic task and go to the hands of or across from those renters. In addition, Petrol has also happened that all those who work on pumps that are constantly open, regardless of the epidemiological picture, are workers who deserve some attention – on all pumps in Slovenia, but above all I speak here for Petrol – who are always available and always behind the windows and always take care of us, but have not received any additional crowns. It is true that less fuel was sold, and it is true that trade was much more besieged and sold many more products. Moreover, in addition to the payments, the minimum wages have been raised, which was adopted by law here, and have received a smaller allowance for sales performance, which I do not think is appropriate. I think it is right for Petrol or the Petrol administration to go across from these people, so that sales performance does not go down because the minimum wage has risen and that it is also going up against all those who have regularly paid all contractual obligations to rent these restaurants in Petrol. This was my proposal and this proposal and initiative I am still referring to you, Madam Minister, and I thank you very much for the additional explanations and the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u48	Thank you. As I said, in order to cover the rent, we had two measures, partly covering fixed costs, I said how much money was allocated to this measure in the entire Slovenian economy, and the second measure was that we suggested to the tenants that this problem be resolved in some way in a negotiated sense. In the case of Petrol, as I said in the introduction, we can only communicate about what we have prepared. I believe that even in the administration of Petrol, they will listen to the problems of their tenants, because it also depends on how their business will be fully positive during this post-conceived period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the question of Members and Members. First round. Edward Paulič will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u50	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary. A good month ago, I addressed a written question to you concerning the justification for the closure of certain economic activities. Above all, I wanted you to familiarize us with the analysis, the expertise, the key to determining which activities are open, which are closed. A few days ago, I did get your written answer, which I thank you for. In your reply, you state that the Ministry is responsible for dealing with the subject, examines it properly and, if circumstances permit, incorporates it in amendments to the decrees. Then, below, you will describe what is permitted by the decrees, which activities can be carried out. But I could really look at it myself in these government decisions. Finally, you claim that all the measures taken so far contribute to the preservation of public health, the limitation of the grey economy and the implementation of economic activities without major negative consequences on the epidemiological picture and so on, I agree, contribute to the preservation of public health. But I asked you for analysis, on professional grounds, anything tangible, because I still think the public has the right to know on what basis the government decides which activities they can and which they do not. My feeling, at least so far, is that you are taking these measures intuitively, without some kind of epidemiological expertise, and that in some way you are arbitrarily deciding which activities are open, which ones are not. So today I ask you again about some of the professional bases, after analysis, of anything tangible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u52	Thank you, honourable Member Edward Paulic, distinguished National Assembly, chairman! Thank you for asking. I have already answered a very similar question in writing, as you yourself have said. Of course, you know that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is responsible for the abolition of the temporary ban on the supply and sale of goods and services to consumers in the Republic of Slovenia. There is currently a decree that was adopted at the Government of 17. 3. 2021. The decree regulates trade, services and hospitality and tourism services. It regulates the exclusive relationship between the legal person and the direct consumer. The decree does not regulate business relations between legal persons if I can use the term B2B. Exceptions are that the decree generally prohibits the supply, sale of goods and services. It also regulates a number of exceptions to prohibitions that are less risky, is essential for ensuring the basic needs of society and the care of the population and is important for ensuring safety and health. In order to protect and ensure the health of operators and consumers, a substantial part of the permitted services is provided under additional conditions: weekly testing, restriction of one customer in the space on 30 square metres, separate entrance and exit. As I have explained many times, changes in the granting and release of measures are added gradually under certain conditions, taking into account the health recommendations of the NEJS and the Ministry of Health. These are the grounds on which, after discussion by the government, we re-analyse things and then the government as a whole decides on measures. Exceptions are included in the decree on the basis of the current epidemiological situation at the level of the whole country and individual statistical regions and on the basis of the positions of the medical profession. This takes into account the government's plan to release control measures, to control the epidemic of communicable diseases. All restrictive measures or exceptions to the prohibition shall be taken solely with a view to protecting the health of the operator and the consumer on the one hand, while at the same time allowing the provision of as many services in sectors and regions where this is permitted due to epidemiological conditions. The Ministry also actively cooperates with representative chambers, associations in the field of economy, entrepreneurship and trade. We are responsible for all initiatives, arguments, proposals and questions taken in connection with the implementation of the decree. We ourselves, and even the Ministry, are working to ensure that, in the shortest possible time, and to fully eliminate restrictive measures are taken to facilitate the conduct of service activities in all sectors, enabling normal and smooth business operations of all economic operators in the country once again. However, we cannot and must not do so at the expense of health and the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u53	Comrade Paulic, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u54	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, we're listening, but obviously we don't hear from each other. If I connect to the economy, where you come from. Measures in the economy shall be taken on the basis of analyses based on some data, not on intuition. If I give you something illogical that I don't understand, I believe no one else does. Let's say the ban on the sale of alcohol in the inn, it says, food can be bought with it, alcohol. B2B business meetings, that's what you mentioned. If you meet 10 people who are entrepreneurs, business partners, you can go to the inn for lunch. If these 10 people were to meet and not be entrepreneurs, they should not meet, which means that the possibility of spreading the virus is linked to the legal status of the person. It's completely illogical. In the past, we could have had cooperatives open, but not construction stores. I don't understand. It's completely illogical. My question again, Mr. Minister, is: Do you have any specific analyses, or do activities open or close after feeling, arbitrarily?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u56	Dear Member, I can always answer only what I have said in writing and before, and I will repeat it again. What do you think of the analysis? The government checks on the professional validity of the measures on a weekly basis on the basis of expert opinions. Each Wednesday, the government meets with representatives of the NIJZ, with an expert consultation group for covid-19 at the Ministry of Health, and analyses the epidemiological and other data in detail. Based on the professional position, we determine the necessary restrictive measures or their release. These are determined at the level of the whole country or separately across individual statistical regions. Since the outbreak started last year, services have been allowed to sell food, personal care goods, cleaning, including the sale of agricultural crops on farm, agricultural shops, food markets, not to mention what was allowed because we both know this. In addition, distance trade is also possible all the time, i.e. the so-called online trade, as well as catering activities in organisations that operate for their employees or for their guardians. I have to say, I don't know where you got this claim that the legal status depends on the opening. All the time, I think we clearly note that the key problem for new social infections is that we want to prevent excess associations with these measures, and we call on all stakeholders in the economic process to be responsible for this issue. I believe that we will, I hope, lead the story to this extent in the future, so that we can control the epidemic together with vaccination so much that we can relax all economic activities to the fullest extent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Comrade Paulic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u58	Thank you, President. Mr. Minister, you mentioned the professional grounds you have. I would really ask you, but there is no need for all activities if you could send me one professional basis for one activity on which you decide. As far as the legal status is concerned, I don't know, I may have been unclear, but I'm talking about that if 10 people are gathered in a restaurant at lunch and all have legal status, they're supposed to be espas or entrepreneurs, then they can gather if they're equal to 10 people without the status of an entrepreneur, they can't gather. And that's a distinction based on the legal status of a person. Given that there is still a third wave of the epidemic to be spoken, and that certain activities are likely to be closed again, I believe that the public has the right to know on what basis you are deciding and therefore I propose that a general discussion be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Jani Prednik will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Janez Cigler to the King and Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počivalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Respectable both ministers! During the past year, we have played a very cooperative role in the resolution of the epidemic, but unfortunately, throughout the year of your rule, we have also pointed out that our well-intentioned proposals, not only of the Social Democrats, but of the entire opposition, are being rejected as by the current tape. You have also taken every proposal of ours as an attack by the opposition on the government. I repeatedly warn you that this is not the case, and I hope that you have learned something from this and will listen repeatedly not only to the Social Democrats but also to the professional public in the coming period. We warned that what had begun to happen would begin. Last week, news of the closing of the Adient factory in Slovenj Gradec was echoed. The closure of this factory will mean 430 more people in the employment facility. And that's not the first one, and it's not the only company that is and that's gonna close its doors. In recent weeks, Safilo of Ormož has announced this, where 557 people will lose their jobs. Such stories are still largely related to the decisions of foreign owners to abandon their investments in Slovenia. The business of the companies I mention, unlike innkeepers, tourism and the meeting industry, has not been limited to your government decisions banning business and collecting. It's the so-called processing industry. And this is the industry for which you, distinguished Minister Restorationšek, claimed that it was necessary to help her in any way and to exempt her from restrictive measures. Nevertheless, these companies today, as we can see, are closing their doors. It is felt that the Slovenian state, the Slovenian government, has no response to this. I am aware that this is a private owner, that it is a foreign private owner, but we are probably all aware and agree that the country cannot only oblivion about how foreign owners of this company will drive us abroad. Dear Minister, in addition to health care, all these measures are intended to have one goal, namely to maintain economic activity, employment and jobs, so I ask you: What do you intend to do to prevent business closures and job losses? What help and support will you offer to overnight workers who have lost their jobs overnight? Are you going to insist on closing only certain activities while continuing to offer equal assistance to all? What is the plan of the Slovenian Government to adapt to the changed and reduced logistics chains that leave the periphery and Slovenian producers? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, which of you will be the first to respond? Janez Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member Jani Prednik, thank you very much for this question. As you know, the creation of a responsive labour market and the preservation of quality jobs is also among the priorities of our mandate. This is actually true at two levels. One is the intervention level that you are following, which you have your opinion on, but on the other hand, all the results, both in terms of the number of unemployed or the rate of falling unemployment in 2020 and in terms of the reduced decline in GDP in 2020, as a result of these measures for the labour market, show that, in fact, these measures are confirmed and are working, so they serve their purpose. Together, we have maintained about 300,000 jobs. At the second level, this is a systemic or longer-term level, and with a number of measures, we are trying to see the objective that the labour market is dynamic in order to support the economy while at the same time providing sufficient protection for employees. We are certainly concerned about the situation and forecast of these companies and we are certainly here in response as we have been several times before, and I can say that tomorrow we will also personally visit this company and try to help all stakeholders as much as possible in our competence. I know, and we are both aware that the loss of employment is a shock, and there can also be a threat to the families of employees there and the entire region. I am Korošec myself, and this province means so much more to me, and I am aware of the difficult situations that were there during the economic crisis, and that is why we are both even more motivated to help. We have some opportunities to help these people who are threatened with losing their jobs, which they may then discuss further. I'd like to give my colleague a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u63	Minister Restoring, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u64	Thank you. Dear Member Jani Prednik. The National Assembly! I was also embarrassed by the news of the planned closure of Adient companies in Slovenj Gradc and Safilo in Ormož. Indeed, the operation of these processing companies has not been limited to government decisions, but I must tell you clearly and loudly that the country does not observe the German what is going on. After all, I visited Safilo twice last week. I met with existing owners and talked to potential new ones. Tomorrow, as my colleague Janez has already said, we are going together to Koroška to Adient. Of course, there are two companies that are strongly involved in the international value chain. There are various causes of the problems you've come to. As a rule, Slovenian companies in these international chains are the most successful and new businesses, and in at least one of these two cases we find that this company has acted in a way that does not take advantage of all its potential opportunities offered by this international involvement. In any case, we believe that the measures we have taken have preserved most of the jobs and businesses. Finally, this is confirmed by the IMF's published report last week, which states that Slovenia has responded to the negative effects with swift, extensive and well-coordinated measures. Despite all the efforts, some companies have made a business decision on closure due to these difficulties. Maintaining production at all costs is not meaningful. We are, once again, in contact with both companies. Together, we will seek a solution to employment towards re-employment, re-qualifications, employment incentives by the Ministry of Labour, this is the latest plan we least want, to look for new investors who would be led at these locations to take over this production or start a new one, as I have already said, to look for new investors who will establish a different production, not least to agree on a possible continuation of production. State, Ministry will do everything to support and find such entrepreneurs [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Comrade Prednik, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u66	I thank you both very much. Since time is running out, I'll give you a full response. I believe you're trying to keep your jobs. Over the past year, you have repeatedly boasted that you have earmarked €320 million to maintain your jobs. But one year later, we can see that despite the measures it appears to be not working. And fear isn't just for Adient, it's afraid it'll cause a chain reaction. I repeat, I am aware that these are foreign owners, but we must not look. I would like to point out that these manufacturing companies have not closed down the epidemic and the strategic owners in this sector are not in trouble because the volume of work has not been reduced. Any excuse at high cost, perhaps even on a minimum wage — I do not want to hear it from you or anyone else, because the scope of work, as it was said, has not been reduced. There's two problems. The problem is local, because it means a social bomb not only for Koroška, but also for Ormož and other areas, and the state, because we are seeing a trend towards globalisation, production is moving to the centres, and we are the owners of the obvious periphery, which in this some optimisation is cutting and the state aid available to the investor in these cases is obviously not effective enough. I am further interested, Minister Restoration: What will we do to ensure that foreign owners maintain production and quality jobs in our country? Minister of Labour, I want to know: What will we do to help the unemployed find a suitable job quickly? I'd like to hear from both of you: How will the State take action in two specific cases in Koroška and Ormož, which pose a major shock not only for the region but therefore for the whole country?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ministers, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u68	Thanks for the extra question. I have to say first, you can say you don't want to hear anything from us about minimum wage, but we need to hear this story about minimum wage from owners. That's what we do. I regret that we have not found a compromise that would allow us to maintain a job this year. I think despite everything that the promises are good, because the need for good and qualified workers in both environments is great. I do not see exclusively the solution of the employment agency, but I see in the other two options, the re-employment and continuation of production at these two locations, the solution to this matter. In this direction, the state will absolutely step to the rescue. Again, I must say that with eight PKP measures, we have maintained the largest number of jobs and businesses. These forecasts, which are now announced, enable us to grow positively in the following year. These two companies are not all Slovenian economies, they are important, we will do everything we can to find a solution, but solutions are the easiest and best when the management of these companies are involved. However, in one of these two cases, I can state responsibly as Minister that it is a matter of passivity because in both companies, in international flows, the possibilities and potentials are to obtain other production programmes. But the state stands by and will do everything to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Minister of the Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u70	Yes, thank you very much. I'll just keep going where my colleague Zdravko finished. The latter, and the last chance to find these solutions, is also aid through the Employment Service. We are not just waiting for someone to potentially lose their jobs, but we have already operational programmes for employees who are threatened with losing their jobs. These are two projects for those people who are prior to losing their jobs, and these are SPIN and Charter careers with potential. These two projects provide these employees who are at risk of losing their jobs with comprehensive support for information, motivation, career advice and, above all, a number of training and education. In this way, they are allowed even before they may lose their jobs, move to new jobs or to new jobs, thus preventing their unemployment. Otherwise, there are different regular treatments for unemployed persons in employment institutions, including active employment policy programmes. All of this offers opportunities to help people re-enter the labour market. But like we both said, we'll be looking for all the other solutions first.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the mag. Dejan Kaloh, Minister of Justice Mag. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u72	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, fellow Members! I have two questions for you, from the framework of the initiative tabled and the Constitutional Court's request and the violation of the principle of the impartiality of constitutional judges in certain cases in which they should be excluded. During the period from October 2020 to February 2021, a large number of initiatives and requirements for assessing the constitutionality of certain articles under various anti-Korona laws were submitted to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. A number of government decisions governing the situation at the time of the epidemic have also been submitted to the constitutionality assessment. The declared covida-19 epidemic, of course, represents a higher force that requires rapid and flexible adaptation to everyday epidemiological conditions, the adoption of intervention legislation that mitigates the consequences that these extraordinary situations cause at the level of society, state and citizen. In order for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be able to act within the legal and constitutional framework when adopting anti-Korona measures, it is essential that all courts, in particular the Constitutional Court, decide on the requirements and initiatives submitted in a priority manner, i.e. before all other requirements received. It follows from the review of outstanding cases on the official website of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia that there are a total of more than 16 cases relating to anti-Korona legislation and measures. The situation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia being forced to control the epidemic and mitigate the economic and social consequences of the adopted anti-Korona legislation and measures, without the Constitutional Court saying that they are constitutionally compatible, is a legally and effectively unsustainable situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention that the Ministry of Justice has obtained €32.9 million from European cohesion policy funds to carry out the Operation Effective Justice in the next eight years. The Constitutional Court shall participate in the project Effective Justice as a beneficiary. Now, in light of all the above, I am interested in: Does the Ministry of Justice, in particular on the fact that the Constitutional Court is also a beneficiary of the Operation Effective Justice, have any mechanisms or possibility to verify the effectiveness of the functioning of the Constitutional Court in the context of this priority decision that I have mentioned and, if necessary, take action? That's the first question. The second line is a violation of the principle of the impartiality of constitutional judges in the individual cases on which these judges should be expelled by law, I am interested, in view of all the media also: What is the position of the Ministry of Justice regarding the violation of the principle of impartiality in the decision before the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Member, Mr Kaloh, thank you for your question. I will finally begin when you have asked the question and let me say that the Ministry of Justice does not have any powers nor does it question the Constitutional Court regarding the resolution of cases, nor is it possible, as you said, to violate the principle of impartiality. We need to know that the Constitutional Court is an institution of constitutional protection. It is intended to safeguard the constitutionality and legality and fundamental human rights. It is based in the Republic of Slovenia on Article 1 of the Constitution, this is the Democratic Republic, and Article 3 when it says that the people have power. It is bound exclusively to stop and also to subjugate. However, the system of brakes and balances is established when the National Assembly appoints representatives of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it is not a matter of regular or specialised jurisdiction, which means that the Ministry of Justice has no jurisdiction whatsoever and must not have any interference. By participating in the Effective Justice Project – yes, of course we are helping. It's just the technical support we're offering. Let me also say that, in the Constitutional Court, they are very exemplary in the use of funds and are still 100 per cent in their work. The European Commission's report on the rule of law also points out that the decision-making time is longer as regards the burden and the resolution of cases before the Constitutional Court. Within the framework of the working group set up to highlight all the challenges presented in this report, the Constitutional Court also replied that there is a need for both organisational and normative measures here, because there is an extremely large number of constitutional complaints coming to the Constitutional Court that prevent the Constitutional Court from deciding within the time limit necessary to ensure controls and restraints and balances, as we know that the Constitutional Court is overseeing all three branches of authority – legislatively, executively and also judicially.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Comrade Kaloh, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary for that answer. I'd still want a supplement here. I agree that the Ministry of Justice here does not have any direct control in this last set of infringements of the principle of the impartiality of constitutional judges on individual matters in which they should be excluded, but I would really like to highlight these rebuttal cases when individual judges have not been excluded from the proceedings in terms of circumstances and ensuring the right to an impartial trial and to ensure the very appearance of impartiality, but should somehow do so. The Constitutional Court Act also provides in its 32nd Article that the judge of the Constitutional Court shall, as soon as he has learned of the reason for his expulsion, cease to work in this case and inform the President of the Constitutional Court thereof. Thus, we let these constitutional judges, who have not done so, look primarily at themselves, perhaps read well their primary Law on the Constitutional Court, and yet they may begin to make changes themselves. However, I am interested in the first part when we discussed this case before the Constitutional Court, that these are indeed some kind of blockades, so I see them in terms of the operational functioning of the government in the context of anti-Korona laws. I want to know: Do you have any information, however, how many of these cases have been completed in this almost half-year period, that the public still feels that constitutional judges are doing something in these priority cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u78	Yes, thank you very much. I agree with you, if the principle of impartiality has been violated when you asked for the position of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry absolutely agrees that this should not be the case. But, as I said in the introduction, it is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court itself. They need to look around, see if there's been any violations here or not. Above all, let me say that here is the possibility of a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights. This is the one which can then, at the professional level, determine whether or not the infringement has been committed. With regard to covid cases, which are being dealt with as a matter of priority, we have obtained information from the Constitutional Court. At the time of the epidemic, 160 cases were filed. That's a big number. At that time, the Constitutional Court was able to resolve 110 cases. That means there's 60 more cases that she hasn't decided on. We also have data on how to resolve these 110 cases, 86 of which have been dismissed, 10 have been rejected, one has not been in breach of the Constitution, so no infringement has been found, 12 have been stopped and, on one occasion, the law has not yet entered into force, its application has been suspended. These are statistics indicating that there is a large proportion of these constitutional complaints or initiatives, most of them were initiatives, 157 are unjustified, so somehow unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u80	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Minister! When vaccination started in Slovenia at the end of December last year and when we learned about the national vaccination strategy, the public was informed at the same time how to express their interest in vaccination or how to apply for it. In the case of risk groups, it has been advised that individuals contact their personal physician to provide the vaccine for them and to vaccinate them. We also learned that doctors will call their own patients over 80 years of age. Well, what went wrong went wrong there, and unfortunately we know. From the fact that vaccines were not ordered at all in December because the stake was saved, and from the fact that the processing of personal data of individuals who applied for vaccination via e-government was not ensured. In the event of an application via an e-government to mislead individuals, the information officer who introduced the inspection procedure in this regard also warned. It also proved that no one had been able to access this information at this time, since people had applied through a personal physician for vaccination. But this is where the next question has to be asked. We well know that more and more people in this country do not even have their own chosen personal physician because they simply do not get it. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary. Who could have been called by those who, say, are at risk and do not have a selected personal physician? Does this mean that these people are simply absent and will not be vaccinated, erased or discriminated against? How will this affect the overall level of grafting in a country which is already envisaged to be low? How many vaccines are available in Slovenia now, how many you ordered, when you can expect them, and when do you expect us to be vaccinated enough to do so in defense of the virus? Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Mrs Natasha Sukić! The primary purpose of vaccination is to reduce mortality, improve the health of the population and relieve the health system and enable the return of the economy and society as such. These basic objectives are pursued by the national strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia last December. Of course, in addition to the above, the aim is to pursue at least 60% of the grafting, which is related to what you have raised in the question. The core or network of vaccinations is represented according to the vaccination centres strategy. The vaccination centres shall include doctors from health homes as well as concessionaires. Vaccination centres are responsible for organising vaccination at local level. In addition to collecting contracts and coordinating, all of this is reported electronically at the National Institute for Public Health. As a rule, more or less vaccination is ongoing. However, we have also seen some deviations in the last days, and certain of our activities related to the inspectorate and to the monitoring of the quality and safety of vaccination are also running in this direction. It is said that we also have a committee at the Ministry to monitor these deviations. By the end of March, we will receive approximately 350 thousand doses of vaccine. To date, we can say that we have injected one dose of vaccine with more than 180,000 inhabitants and with two doses of over 100,000 inhabitants. According to the ECDC data, a 10% one-dose transplantation and 5% two-dose transplantation puts us at the top of the European Community's population. We have the largest group in the 75-year-old group. Of course, this is in the first place a step that has been taken to protect the elderly, especially the guardians of the homes of older citizens. The vaccination of age groups over 70 years of age and chronic patients who are recognized by their doctor regardless of age as having an increased risk of severe disease progression is currently taking place. As far as unprotected persons or persons who do not have a personal physician are concerned, they report to the local community as the body or institute organising vaccination at local level and can, of course, be vaccinated. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u83	Thank you very much. My colleague, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Minister, for that answer. Above all, it would be very good for you, either as a minister or as a ministry, to communicate clearly in advance so that people will know. Now you've told me, but that won't be enough. The minister's job is to know the system and to operate within its framework. Communication has been disastrous so far, so I'm counting on you to improve it with regard to vaccination. In fact, the information officer also pointed out that the statements made by the authorities in the media were often contradictory and inconsistent with the actual situation. Now you're saying that those who don't have a personal physician should come forward. Perhaps it would be good to publish an orderly number, to have somewhere to apply, to have people really know where and how, because they are actually left to themselves. I want to know: Why did the organization of vaccination hang on to individual health care homes that had to be found in their own way? Let's say this is also an interesting question: Why didn't you, for example, extend the existing spatial and human structure of the vaccine outpatients? Do you really think that an elderly person who doesn't have Internet, even a computer, can complete, say, a form on an e-government? Do you think it is right that every healthcare home has developed its own app or is there some other way of applying for vaccination, saying that there is no uniformity in the system? How did you know that it was possible to reach out to a healthcare home, for example, to communicate and make sure that people knew? So what you mentioned earlier must be communicated. How many people have failed to communicate with the ministry and the government in conflict? Do you have any grades? How are you going to make these mistakes? You're new now, and I'm counting on you to. Maybe you can explain that to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u86	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. As far as organisation is concerned at the primary level, the fact that our health base is primary health care, and in certain segments even others imitate us from the point of view of vaccination. In my opinion, Germany wanted to establish a parallel system of vaccination at the primary level, but they soon found that they could not do this organisationally and humanly and that this was a step in a direction that did not bring added value, but an additional chaos, so very soon they also laid the foundation for primary health. That's why I can say and I'm sure that this direction was correct, not only is our health base the primary level, but we have led the vaccination to people at the primary level, because the key is that the vaccine goes to residents and not residents to the vaccine. As far as vaccination sites are concerned, it was also necessary to agree to include concessionaires from here. I stress this from this point of view that all the inhabitants are equally treated, that the concessionaires are also included in the vaccination centres and that their patients are treated in the same way. As far as ordering is concerned, a personal physician here is key to informing the city of the vaccine. However, we know that there are other options, which are said to be directly in the personal physician or also via the call and the vaccination post, then the estimated quotas are made available to the national institute, which then, according to the needs, equips this vaccination site with a sufficient number of vaccines. What has been reported via e-government is currently being upgraded to an application where the number of already vaccinated residents with registered residents will be paired. In this way, in accordance with the provisions laid down by the information officer, the power of those younger persons who have applied in this way will be invited through appropriate vaccination systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u88	Thank you. Now I don't know if you've given me a good answer. I've probably given you a lot of questions. This is also one of the reasons why I should suggest that such a serious topic and such an important topic for all of us, such as how to cross enough populations, what strategy, how to simplify the system as much as possible, bring it closer to the elderly who are not learning how to manage with, say, e-tools and so on. I think we should discuss this at the National Assembly. Because here's a bunch of facts. Let's say that unfortunately, in December, the government gave up the order of nearly half a million doses of Pfizer and an additional 400,000 doses of Moderna, which can be very vengeful, but we can't change that fact overnight. This incompetence, the government's incompetence so far, I don't say, Minister, that you're going to continue this story, and I'm counting on you to fix it, but you could, say, cover it up with some rational organization of vaccination. And that's where we're counting on you, Minister. So we need to talk about how to rationalise, how to organise this vaccination, so that our system doesn't collapse completely. So far, a vaccination strategy has been put in place, which is quite irrelevant, because in fact every healthcare home carries out vaccinations on its own. In a small country like us, I don't understand why there's no uniformity, because that also creates certain inequalities. Vaccination is actually taking place too slowly, so far without a proper central plan. While the representatives of the political class have been vaccinated on the NIJZ unit, let's say others should be vaccinated in some inappropriate situation, for example at the Economic Exhibition, where the elderly stand in line and wait in the cold, which is not right. So you have to have these things in mind in the future. That's why I'm mentioning to you that you might be heading in some direction to get these things and the anomalies out. Unfortunately, the responsibility for the mistakes will ultimately be borne by you who have now occupied this city. So you must probably be the one to fix this, because so far mistakes have been made. That is why I propose this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Andrea Zabret will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! Last October, without any specific clarifications, the government resolved the then chairman of the Financial Administration and, since then, has somehow not found a suitable solution for the management of this institution. The former Acting Director-General has changed her mind and has also withdrawn her candidacy as the only candidate for the job of Director-General of FURS. Currently, FURS in the role of V.D. Director-General is headed by Dr. Simon Starček following a decision by the Ministry of State, and a few days ago he also received a final deputy. The fact is that in extremely difficult times to deal with the FURS epidemic, the implementation of the most important anti-crisis measures has been entrusted, but the failures at its summit have led to a situation in which the current policy fails to find competent persons willing to run or run this very important institution. And we are also floods of worrying information that the Mag is meant to be. Ivan Simič, Head of the Government's Strategic Council for Demobilisation, or a tax advisor and owner of his company, who in tax procedures represents its debtors, who are mainly large debtors, soon began visits to all FURS offices, analysing the operations of the entire Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the conduct of relations between the financial offices themselves and the relations between offices and parties. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: If the tax advisor is familiar with the sensitive information of Furs, might it not be an abuse of the Institute of Personal Interest? It is not known whether Mr Simič has frozen his status in a private company at the time of his duties as Head of the Strategic Council of the President of the Government. I also want to know: Is it not also a violation of the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption, since Fursa’s employees will be exposed to the disclosure of data and working methods by disclosing these data and working methods to the tax advisor? When will politics stop interfering with the work of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which is still important for our country in these times? It is clear that you have fully evaluated the institution and subordinated it to political interests. I thank you in advance for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your words, Madam President, thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. I must say that the officials of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia are independent and independent in the performance of their duties and carry out their duties in accordance with the laws, regulations and regulations, in accordance with the Constitution. Here are the principles of legality and autonomy, which are fundamental and binding upon the tax authority in the performance of its duties. The Financial Administration shall also be provided with legal, procedural and organisational measures to ensure the independence and quality of work to prevent conflicts of interest and to ensure tax confidentiality. The tax administration here has autonomy. Special emphasis is also given in law to the independence and independence of authorised persons. I am talking here mainly about inspectors who are given independence and independence by law itself. This is said, from this point of view, it is indisputable that the Financial Administration carries out its tasks under the law and that all employees in the Financial Administration carry out their tasks within the framework of competences and legal provisions. I would also like to draw particular attention here to the fact that, irrespective of who runs this Financial Administration, there is a constant concern that there is greater efficiency and quality in the performance of the work. If we are talking about the Head of the Strategic Council for Debarcation and if you are asking me about it, of course, I must say that, in the framework of his duties, the Head of the Strategic Council has the Magi Debarcation Council. Ivan Simič also has the task of carrying out tasks related to the demobilization of the procedures themselves in the tax area. In this context, he shall carry out his duties. The Strategic Council for Demobilisation is not organised within the Ministry of Finance, but within the Cabinet of the President of the Government. That is why he performs them within the framework of his actual tasks. I think it is strictly separate, and so far it has always been, his work in the company, and the work he is doing as head of the Strategic Council for Debarcation. It is true, however, that there are many things in the area of taxes that need to be simplified, which need to be made more user-friendly for taxpayers, which need to be done in such a way as to make them easier for officials of the Financial Office. As I know, Mr Ivan Simič is carrying out his duties professionally and in accordance with all the regulations or instructions or standards relating to the absence of any conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u94	Thank you. I can't be satisfied with this answer. Politics and irresponsible Furs management are unacceptable. That this is happening just before the EU Presidency, where Furs will play a very important role in the tax and customs fields, is all the more alarming. The information we've received that circulates to such a state as this moment on Furs has never been, is alarming. Intruding in the discharges of supervisors, deputies and setting up of non-competent personnel who do not have any references to manage such an authority is indeed not encouraging. With regard to Mr Simic, I do not doubt that the work is carried out professionally and competently and in accordance with certain tasks or with all the necessary legislation, I do not doubt that. But, Minister, do you really not think it is disputed that Mr Simič, who represents the great debtors and also the great debtors, will be given a mandate and will be directly on the financial administration, where individual proceedings against the debtors represented by Mr Simič, will be directly familiar with certain sensitive information and the manner in which Fursa works and will gain the full picture? I believe that this is possible in good faith to obtain information about the law itself on debarcation or how to simplify certain procedures, but still, do you not think that this is a violation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and also of the abuse of the Institute of Personal Interest? I'd really like your personal opinion, if you don't think it's entirely incontrovertible that the same person [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u95	Sorry, time's up. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Here again, I would like to reiterate that Mr Ivan Simič is performing those tasks which he has under the Treaty as Head of the Strategic Council for Demobilisation. I also think that all persons in the financial administration are aware of this and that they are simply providing information that they seem, last but not least, appropriate to be submitted, and that there can be no conflict of interest here or that any conflicts of interest are being resolved in accordance with the law. That's what I think. Secondly, if you would allow me, given that you say the situation on the financial board is alarming, worrying and so on. In fact, you're getting some information, I don't know what kind of information it is or who's actually creating it, so I just can't comment on it. The second thing I can say is that in the last year, regardless of who led it, the Financial Administration has done its job well, done its work as required by the legislation. This means that, according to the legislation, we are talking about specific laws relating to the payment of certain benefits to natural persons, legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and so on, it worked by getting all these recipients of remittances within the framework of the legislation. I think that it has also substantially changed the way in which taxpayers operate, which means, in other words, that it also wants to help them, in many cases, to help them, even if you want to, in some way educate them and not to represent a repressive, exclusively repressive body, as unfortunately in the past this financial administration has shown. The financial administration, in my personal opinion, is not a repressive, exclusively repressive body. This can only happen when a person does not want to pay the tax on purpose or wants to hide the tax on purpose. Otherwise, the financial management has other roles, and in this role I think the financial management has made great progress in the last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u98	Thank you. My opinion would be that if there was interest in finding some solutions to debirocratisation, I think that in all the people you have at your disposal, you could find another person who would not cause such doubts and concerns. That the tax advisor, who also represents his clients against Furs, is also working on the other side of the analysis of the operations of the tax authorities and their customers, is, if it is not already against the law, at least morally controversial. I think this is an extremely important matter, so I propose a procedural proposal that at one of the next meetings we should also reconsider this a little bit more and see if we are on the same or the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mojca Žnidarič will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all present, but especially to the well-respected Minister of Health! I will ask the question about the Ptuj Emergency Centre, as I pointed out at the hearing itself, and we have already addressed the government initiative last week. The project of the Network of Emergency Medicine Centres was incorporated into the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023 in 2006. Of course, part of this network was also the Ptuj Emergency Centre, and its construction is still being delayed, while all other emergency centres are being built. The Ministry of Health received the last third amendment of the investment programme last February. The change in government made the amendment impossible at the time, since it does not belong to the government's ongoing operations. In June 2020, I asked your predecessor, Mr Gantar, a question that I wondered whether the competent commission had already examined this third amendment of the investment programme and when the government would give its consent to the amendment. In its reply, the Minister then stated that, in view of the previous amendment of the investment programme, the investment price had increased significantly, from 2.5 million euros to 4.5 million euros, and that this amendment number 3 had not yet been addressed. For January 2021, the former minister also promised us a personal visit, which, of course, did not result from his resignation. I therefore ask you again today, Minister Poklukar: Are sufficient funds provided for the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre? Has the government already agreed to the amendment of the investment programme, and if not, when do you expect it to be? What is the completion time of this project? I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Madam Mojca Znidarič! As far as the Ptuj Emergency Centre is concerned, it is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health that after 15 years we try to complete the project of emergency centres or the placement of emergency centres in Slovenia. The Ptuj Emergency Centre is one of the so-called C3-sized centres based on a single methodology of emergency centres. As has been said, we consider this to be one of the priorities from the point of view of the time in which this chapter is open and should be closed in the organisation of health care and taken further steps. That is why the Secretary of State visited the General Hospital of Ptuj this Saturday, where he also conducted discussions with the hospital’s management on the subject. At the same time, other debates have also taken place, and it must be pointed out that General Hospital Ptuj has been doing positive business in the past year, which is an important milestone in relation to past stories. After all the innovations, the General Hospital Ptuj has spent more than 100,000 euros to prepare the documentation. The first thing we agreed to do was sit at operational level after a month, see if we know how to fold things or if we need to upgrade them somewhere else, and get to the final realization as soon as possible. So that meetings are actively held, during a month of operational meeting at the Ministry level with all the operatives, and I am counting on further guidance or decision as to how to proceed. But there are several challenges at the beginning. The first is that the first investment of EUR 2.5 million was to activate the entire local community, which contributes to the construction of the emergency centre, and that in amendment 2, the value of all investments in this site was significantly higher and in amendment 3, the value of all investments in this location was even higher. Accordingly, we will go through a single methodology of emergency centres with what Ptuj Hospital needs right now and try to close this chapter, as I said. By the end of April, I am counting on giving you information about where we are and what steps we are taking, and that we will be able to reach the end of this chapter in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u104	Thank you for that answer. I see you've really just gone into this darkness. Coalition Members, in fact, we have already submitted to the Government a written parliamentary initiative to implement this project as soon as possible, so I am pleased that you have said that this will also be your priority. I wanted to invite you to Ptuj today, but yes, I have seen and observed that your Secretary of State has already visited the Ptuj hospital this Saturday, as you said, and that a working meeting will be held within a month of you at the Ministry of Health. You are probably aware — or you will still be – that Ptuj Hospital is also willing to help with the provision of additional, missing funds, including the sale of its properties. I also see that you know that the local community has already raised more than EUR 600,000 to help us all get together to this investment. So I do believe, I hope. You're the fourth minister in this mandate I've asked him this question, and I was hoping that it would be realized at the third, because they said it was going to the third, but it wasn't. So I hope that this will work for you, and I heartily desire this for the sake of all the inhabitants of our Lower Pomegranate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. I may add here only that when we visit the Ptuj hospital, of course, we have addressed the leadership and at the same time we are also addressing the local community, where I believe that there will be no problem, given that everyone is working together to raise funds and set up this emergency centre, that they are already starting to talk about a single organisation within the emergency centre, which was the main problem at the time of setting up emergency centres across Slovenia. Just as much as the information. Otherwise, as you said yourself, and as I gave in the first answer, one of the priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Masha Kociper will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, hello! My question, as you have already seen, relates to the deferral of payment of credit obligations or, at home, to the so-called moratorium on the payment of credits. A number of people have turned to our Group of Members, mostly legal persons who are interested in this issue. On 29 March 2020, as you know, the Law on the Intervention Action postponed the payment of the obligations of borrowers allowing the deferral of the obligations under the credit agreement to both natural persons and espoia, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In the first wave of the epidemic, both legal and natural persons could postpone their credit obligations for 12 months, which means that during this period, when they have liquidity and other problems, credit obligations do not need to be paid and then, of course, the period of payment of credit is extended. The law on intervention measures to mitigate the effects of the second wave or PKP6 and further PKP7 subsequently extended this period in view of the long-term epidemic, but if I understand the problem, it is only apparent. Although the duration of the moratorium in the second wave of the epidemic is extended by nine months, such an extension is available only to those entities which did not benefit from the moratorium in the first wave for nine months. In other words, it is already included in the first wave delay, and of course this poses a major problem for both legal and natural persons, because if they have a problem, if they have had it for the first 12 months, they probably continue to have it because of the long duration of the epidemic. In view of the fact that the epidemiological picture, according to the head of Dr. Logar's section, is deteriorating, that we are going almost directly from the second wave to the third wave, I am interested in: Are you at the Ministry talking and thinking about extending the measure to defer payment of the creditors' liabilities? This is, of course, relevant to the activities of those — and this is the most common among those who have turned to us — who are prohibited from carrying out their activities, such as the innkeepers. Of course, they would all now like this measure to be extended, and I am interested in whether this is also being considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Member! Of course, at the Ministry of Finance we are studying this situation, including with the Bank of Slovenia, together with the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, including with the Ministry of Economy. I can say that in these days there will also be an interview with all the organisations or institutions I have mentioned. This thing, I'll say, isn't as simple as you mentioned. In fact, a law has been adopted which has allowed a Moratorium of Credits, but on the basis of the European Banking Authority, which supervises the entire monetary policy in addition to the European Central Bank. This body has set up banks to give a moratorium in this respect on the possible non-payment of this loan or whatever this measure is, to put it that way, does not affect capital in any way. Here this European banking authority has set nine months in full. We belong to a monetary union, which is why we are bound by the rules laid down by the monetary union, and we are also committed to following these measures. From this perspective, given that the crisis continues, we have had a second wave, a third wave approaching, that part of the economy is still in operation, we are also negotiating with European financial or banking institutions that these nine months should be extended. However, there will be no misunderstanding, banks can extend the moratorium, so this is not a question here, it is only a question of how such an extension will affect the final Infantry, so to speak, their capital adequacy or capital. From this point of view, the Ministry of Finance and the other ministries, especially the Ministry of Economy, are doing everything they can to facilitate it. And once again, the banks here are not committed to not giving an additional moratorium to extend the moratorium. Once again, given that the European banking authority here does not ensure that this would not affect capital, of course, in later procedures if such credit were not returned. In this regard, we are working together for all these institutions in order to make the situation of the economy as easy as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u112	Thank you. I am aware that this is probably a complex issue concerning one set of issues, you yourself have mentioned the capital adequacy of the banks and so on. But I hope that we all understand together the situation of some individuals in this situation. Especially those whose operating ban has been imposed. Let's say I have a letter from one of the guests, he's hired a loan for the equipment of his place, buying equipment, but at the same time he's a tenant and rent, as you know, no one forgives him. He has to pay the rent even though he's not doing business. Because he is paying for the loan, but he is not doing business, because this country does not allow him, at least that's how he sees it, of course this credit is a huge burden. In view of the fact that I am also asking myself whether, as a community like the European Union now, not as the Republic of Slovenia, we will again protect banks in any way or concentrate on the problems of individuals, including smaller legal persons, and try to resolve this issue so that both banks and individuals will not be so much worse off. My question is once again, maybe I didn't get it right: Is there a nine-month extension on the government again? Does what you have said about the European banking authority and the arrangements mean that, even if this is extended, those who have benefited from it or who have already benefited from it will not be able to do so? Do you have any information — I know I didn't write it — how many of the entities, legal and physical that required it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I have information, but I don't have it with me, so we'll send it to you, there's no problem with that. How much they have benefited and how much the total amount, I would now not have thought of it, the worse I remember it now, but I have already had it, so there will be no problems with this angle. Once again, given that we are in a monetary union, it is the European banking body that actually lays down the conditions for what these credits will have in the bank balance sheets. Regardless of Slovenian legislation, whether we write that it is possible to postpone, this means that these loans will still not be included in the fact that they can reduce capital in certain cases, which is of course not favourable for banks. On the other hand, no bank shall be prohibited from granting a stay or moratorium further. After all, I think it is necessary to find a common solution in this direction, so that those who have the possibility of doing business, who also have the possibility that, when the crisis is over, they will operate well, successfully and so on, are also entrusted with business banks and thus are granted an additional moratorium or further moratorium. In particular, if there is a significant likelihood or a substantial likelihood that their capital adequacy will not be affected. The banks are also stable, they are adequately capitalised, so that I see no problems from this point of view here. On the other hand, we have also helped businesses with a number of measures, including replacing their fixed costs. In this context, we have also provided a number of options for compensation for workers or wages, contributions, fixed costs and so on in many of the laws of the CAP that you have adopted. So from this point of view, I think that full fiscal policy follows businesses and this is not such a crisis as it was in 2012, 2013, and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u116	I would just like to use these business options and propose that we hold this debate. During this time, I think we will be able to obtain, even after the Minister's assurance, a response to how many natural and legal persons have benefited from the possibility of a moratorium on the payment of credit obligations and the total amount. Perhaps in some joint debate we can come to a conclusion, including a political message to individual banks that have the opportunity to order this right themselves, as I have understood the Minister. So let's talk about how many such people there are, how many people there are, and what some effective solutions could be to help those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Aljaž Kovačič will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I come from Ormož, which belongs to a region that is already suffering from a lower standard of living and from which young people are still evicting, even today. This region was hit by a new disaster – Safilo is closing down. According to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, jobs are expected to lose 557 jobs, accounting for about 20% of all jobs in the municipality. In doing so, we must be aware of the fact that entire families are actually working in this company, especially from the municipalities of Ormož, the Centre ob Drava and Sveti Tomaž. Since this is actually a threatening social bomb, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would be expected to react immediately. The company Building the Future has already contacted trade unions, the Labour Advisory Office and other addresses that could help workers in this socio-economic disaster, since it is essentially workers. I have also given an initiative to your government and to your ministry to help existing local and also wider companies with some stimulation to expand their activities or in the premises of today's Safil, if possible with owners or even wider ones, it is said that workers would keep their jobs. In short, incentives should be made to ensure that unemployment does not increase further. Your Ministry, Mr Minister, also has a call for public co-financing of initial investments and the creation of new jobs. After reviewing this call, I strongly doubt that any assistance from this call will come to our places, in particular because the application has to be submitted by the end of April and has a valid building permit, which is very difficult to ensure in such a short time. The other thing is the location of the investment. Six points are the best you can get, while only two points are available for Ormož, Drava, and Sveta Tomaž. We have also warned in the Marjan Sarca List in all the PKPs and have also made amendments that it would be fair that those companies that receive part-time assistance should not be forgiven as long as they receive assistance. But unfortunately, in the coalition, you rejected all of this. For all these consequences, we will also make a request for a reference to the Committee on the Economy and to the Committee on Labour. From you, Minister, I expect answers, and I urge you to carefully consider all possibilities for assistance to the people of Ormož and beyond. First of all, to provide assistance to workers in all frameworks, social, legal and employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u120	Dear Member, distinguished National Assembly, chairman! Thank you for asking. We need to separate the border problems of areas and the problems of areas with high unemployment. In accordance with the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, the Government may adopt additional temporary measures of development support for the problems of high unemployment areas where internal structural problems or external impacts make the economic situation worse so that the level of registered unemployment reaches a critical limit. We currently have no problem areas with high unemployment. If high unemployment zones re-emerg on us, we will comply with that law and the Regulation implementing the measures of the endogenous regional policy. The economic situation in a given area is deemed to have deteriorated to a level where registered unemployment reaches a critical limit, if the registered unemployment rate in the administrative unit is at least three consecutive months 17 % or higher and must be at least 20,000 inhabitants. On the basis of an expert analysis of development problems, it is determined by the Government by a decision, and measures, conditions, monitoring and reporting, as has already been done in such cases, are further regulated. Examples of high unemployment areas to date were Maribor and its surroundings, Poklopje, the area of the municipalities of Hrastnik, Trbovlje and Radeče. As far as border areas are concerned, these problems are priority areas for all development policies. In our calls, companies from these areas have priority. I've said this a number of times, even last month in these two answers. If I just quickly summarize the existing measures for 2021 that we are already implementing as regular measures and also as additional measures adapted to the covida epidemic. We are implementing a call for funding incentives to restart business operations in border areas of 9.2 million, we are implementing a call for increased material efficiency, energy efficiency in tourism of 16.5 million, and we are conducting microcredit through the SPS and the allocation of liquidity loans through the Slovenian Regional Development Fund. Last Friday, 12. 3. The call for co-financing of investments and the creation of new jobs in border areas in 2021, 2022 totalled €23.8 million was also published. This invitation to tender shall continue until 2022, so that what you are saying about the end of April does not apply to this. In addition, we have the possibility to share regional state aid with the decision. For this purpose, we have €6 million a year reserved, we carry out a number of other activities to promote coherent regional development towards the polycentric development of Slovenia. The main objective of the Government and the Ministry of Economy is to achieve coherent regional development in a way that will also be possible in these areas or areas to obtain a properly paid job, to make a business career and to create a family. We have done this with calls and incentives during this period, and I am also optimistic about the potential of European funds and our laws to promote investment and regional development, because I think we will be able to support all business initiatives in such areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u122	Thank you. As I have already mentioned, I strongly doubt that any company from the municipalities of Ormož, the Centre ob Drava or Sveta Tomaž will receive any assistance from this call, as much as I have been able to examine it myself, mainly because of the location of the investments, because where all three municipalities are assigned only two points. I trust you when you were talking about when the country could start additional temporary measures, about some critical border, but workers who lose their jobs, these wrinkles help a little bit after they need help. This is many times when we have floods in Slovenia, and then people hope that the country will declare a natural disaster in order to get some help. The fact is, this is a state of emergency both in Ormož and in Slovenj Gradz, as we have already heard. I'm afraid there will be more and more of these companies, so, Mr. Secretary, I'm curious: Will you, because this is an urgent matter, act as I myself have suggested in the Government's initiative to give these companies, for example, who already operate in Ormož Municipality or Municipality Centre near Drava or the Municipality of Sveti Tomaž, some incentive to expand their activities and employ at least a few workers? It is, however, a fact that, at the time of the actual loss of 500 people, it will have to help in some way, because in my opinion the various calls will be too small to replace all these jobs. Because this isn't about five, ten jobs, but as I mentioned, just in this case, more than 550.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u124	Your Honor! The condition of the country is such that all those at risk of jobs can count on three things at this time. At the very least, I wish all the employees of Safilo's company would go to your office of Employment. We have examined the potential of hiring these workers into neighbouring companies. I'm optimistic here. In particular, I would like to tell everyone that I have been in Ormož twice in the last week, last Saturday, where I met with existing owners and held a meeting with new potential owners. I'm glad you couldn't record all my stories in Ormož because I'm always in Ormozh, it seems, under control. I believe that we will be successful in bringing this matter to fruition. We are looking for a way out of this by finding a potential investor who will either continue to produce this production in these premises or with these co-workers to create a new production, which, by the State, based on the two laws that we have and are in force, are the Investment Promotion Act and the Law on Promoting coherent regional development, we also support. In any case, we will do everything possible to resolve this problem in Ormož and also in Slovenj Gradec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u126	I'm glad you took your time and visited our places. In the future, I wish that not only you, but also the other representatives of the government – if you are, I apologize if I do not have this information – also meet with the workers, because I feel that many times it forgets them and that it is only looking here at the companies themselves. I hope we can get some results from these conversations. I believe, however, that the President-in-Office, given that it is indeed an urgent matter for the State Assembly to hold a debate at one of the next meetings on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u127	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Only Bevk will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The regional state road Bače–Podbrdo through 30 kilometers long Baska Grapo is an important road link between Gorenjska, Bohinj, Železniki and Škofja Loko and northern Primorsko. The road link is today narrow and narrow and inappropriate for any major traffic. The road does not reach the required technical standards according to the category of road. The vehicle is uneven, crowded and cracked, and the banks that are narrow or non-existent are irregularly drained. It is also very dangerous for transport to drop stones, as there are no safety fences and nets in critical places. The handrails are damaged or dipped and do not perform their original functions. So it is a state road through Baska Grapa, which is one more fragmented far and many times it has been damaged by natural disasters such as reptiles and numerous storms. The predators are losing patience. Just patching holes and some of the larger works, such as the rehabilitation of the beach in Grahove, are considered to be insufficient. The road was also closed to trucks and buses several times. The people in Baska Grapa are getting smaller. Mostly young people go to cities, villages are empty, areas are growing. In recent years, despite the drastic decline of the population, there has been a renewed awareness of the maintenance and restoration of technical, natural and cultural heritage. They also put a lot of money on the development of tourism.Baška Grapa was recognizable a few years ago because of the 70th anniversary of making the first sound Slovenian feature film on its land. For the development of the Baska Grape, transport connection with the rest of Slovenia is crucial. Dear Minister Jernej Vrtovec, I am interested in: In the next 10 years, between 2021 and 2031, what are you planning to do at the Ministry to modernise the state road through Baska Grapa? Thank you very much for your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u130	Thank you so much for asking. Let me begin by saying that even if it seems so, Baska Grapa is not cut off from Slovenia, but is part of this country and we love it. The following projects are taking place on the regional road Bača and then against Petrova Brdo. Sanitation of the walls and reconstruction of the road Prince towards Podbrud, this was also concluded, this part. Currently, in the third stage, the road is being organised through Podbrdo, which is expected to be completed this year, this year. For the removal of the tunnel opening and reconstruction of the Baša-Knež road, project documentation is currently being produced, which will also be completed this year, i.e. 2021, followed by preparatory works. Immediately after this year, works are being followed and construction is expected to begin immediately in 2022, late in 2022. For the rehabilitation of the beach of Šchenk on the same road of Baša-Knež, which is located on a large beach, which also causes injuries, documentation is required and this documentation will be prepared by 2022. Even the beach makes things go away. Then there will be the rehabilitation of the beach itself. Followed by the rehabilitation of the implants of the Prince on the road of the Prince – Podbrdo, where the outer edge of the road is occupied due to the implantation and weakening of the embankment. The documentation for self-sustainment will be available in 2022. After acquiring land, construction is in this work – after acquiring land, it is not only up to us, but also other stakeholders – then in early 2024. For the rehabilitation of beaches and walls, design documentation is also available for the reconstruction of the road Knez–Podbrdo. Construction is expected from 2024 to 2026. The rehabilitation of the beaches in Grahove and the reconstruction of the road Knez-Podbrdo, where the entire area of Grahovo ob Bača has been experiencing extensive climbing for many years, takes place in the first phase of the rehabilitation. This first phase of rehabilitation was completed already in 2019. Project documentation has been developed for the second phase. The investment value of this project is almost EUR 4 million, co-financed by the Municipality of Tolmin. The construction of this work will take place this year and in the following year. Very quickly, then. By the end of our term of office, this part will be finished, I believe. For the reconstruction of the road and the rehabilitation of the walls and implants on the road Podbrdo–Petrovo Brdo, the design documentation to be produced this year is 2021. All land will be acquired in 2022. Again, it's not all up to us, because you know that if it were up to us, we could approach things faster. Construction will take place, or we want it to take place, from 2023 forward in this part, says on the road Podbrdo to Petrov Brdo. The initiative on our part is certainly and we are willing to cooperate or work as closely as possible in this section. The road link between Tolmin, Selska Dolina and Bohinj, who we believe to be really dangerous today, often follow it, tightly wrapped, inappropriate, really needs protection or necessary updates.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for these rather encouraging words, which I hope will also come true in practice. When I announced today's question to Petty Officer Tolmina Tomaž Štenkler, who was at home from Podbrda in Baska, in an electronic letter to me, wrote that for people in Baška Grapa, the road connection is crucial in an already degraded environment, to deal with the very large migration of young people into urban environments, that the tourist visit of Baška Grapa is growing year after year, that also during the summer time of the tourist transit through Baska Grapa is huge and the road in which it is in a state of great security. I know I haven't announced another problem with Baska Grapa, but I dare ask myself. Indeed, the railway connection to Jesenice-Nova Gorica is certainly one of the great advantages if, of course, this connection was not forgotten by the State. That would be a great advantage for Basko Grapa. At a time when we are talking about sustainable mobility, these links should have their place on the map of Slovenia and Europe. Unfortunately, this railway is not mentioned in the country's infrastructure strategy until 2030, only to make it more workable. During last year, a consortium was even appointed for the Bohinj route. The raptors say they have no information on the operation of this consortium. If you may also have some information on this question, I thank you for the answer, but if you do not, then you can also complete your oral reply in writing later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u134	Thank you very much for that question. This is because it is very important, especially in terms of the development of tourism. On one side Goriška, Tolminska and on the other side Bohinj, Bled and so on. We are aware of the importance of this link, in particular from the development of tourism, as I mentioned. But if anyone thinks that we can develop here an industrial track that will replace the track that goes to Trieste, Sežana against Ljubljana, or Trieste-Pontebba, that is no longer the case. In the sense that it will go through the Bohinian route, the so-called industrial track that will provide Bavaria and so on, I think this track has no purpose. We need to discuss the Bohinian track in particular from the perspective of sustainable mobility and from the point of view of tourism. From this address, I spoke to the mayor of Bohinj about six months ago, with other initiators around Bohinj, and so on, so that as far as possible this route, which is a unique Alpine track, could be revived. I believe that European funds can also be used in this cohesion to properly put this track in place, but also to redecorate it, for sure. And this is not to say with no idea of the final inputs that would go into hundreds of millions of euros, but to restore the speed of trains in order to reach the speed of trains, and the weight of trains so on, but in particular to commit to tourism. That's an essential element. This route is also very profitable for passengers from the railway’s point of view because everything is turning. If I have the correct information, this moment in Slovenia is one of the rare profitable routes on which passengers travel. Because during the summer time, many passengers from Posočje or Tolmin continue to go to Gorenjska and are very profitable to other routes that you know how they operate. This route is therefore to develop only the meaning of permanent mobility for the development of tourism. I think this is the key potential of this line, because from this title it is truly unique in this Alpine world.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Next up, Joseph Lenart will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Greetings to all present guests, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simon Kustec! My question is regarding the verification of the reality of the references and curricula vitae and the suitability of candidates for employment in educational institutions, i.e. schools, in the employment of teachers, professors, because there are more so-called excessions, that is, deviations from the normal behaviour of a teacher who should be an example of schoolchildren and students. The teacher is a public servant who, at the same time as the educator, teaches by his example, whether in his spare time or in his time of service, as he is a public figure. Thus, a teacher or teacher must be a model to his students, students, and students. In addition to the demands for professionalism and ethics, the teacher’s profession brings a great deal of responsibility, but unfortunately there are somewhat fewer responsible, exemplary teachers today than there have been in the past. In Slovenia, according to the needs of the education system, we educate even too many teachers, for example, primary school teachers, but somehow it is the belief that you need a lot of knowledge and happiness to be a teacher after graduating from the faculty of education. In fact, the intellectual potential of an individual is not so important, as there is no filter anywhere to distinguish talented teachers from non-talented, that is, good from bad. This is exactly what we should do when it comes to education and employment in the human resources process. “Good teachers are expensive and worse” is a quote by Bob Talbert. From this title, Madam Secretary, I ask: What will you do or will you do to ensure that there is a professional choice based on competence and talent and a personal profile that is suitable for working with schoolchildren in order to have suitable, exemplary teachers?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Member Lenart, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, you open two segments, the basic segments of the criteria of employment of teachers and teachers not only in our system, but in general. One is related to the professional references which are legal, defined and defined, in our case this means mainly in the Labour Relations Act and in our sectoral, basic law of ZOFVI, the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The second segment that you open up is a segment that you can't, sometimes you might even say unfortunately, legally define, but a segment that is linked to completely personal, valuable, ethical characteristics, credibility, credibility, also common sense, the integrity of each individual and individual, who usually says more about himself than they do about others. That's too bad. I agree with you that in our society, especially in recent times, we have been looking at too much in a negative sense, and that the school must be the basic area in which, in addition to all professional references, from education to references to knowledge of the Slovenian book language, conducted by an expert examination – I now quote important legal references that employees must have in education and education. In the final stage, it is also necessary to go to persons who are not legally convicted of a criminal offence prosecuted under official duty for a term of imprisonment of more than six months, or who are not legally convicted or are not prosecuted for a criminal offence against sexual inviolability, both of which are confirmed by candidates or candidates with a certificate of impunity. In addition to all of this, it is also crucial who and what employees are, individuals in education and education, because they carry a fundamental mission that is not only a transfer of knowledge, but also a transfer and knowledge, a consolidation of fundamental values, what is right, what is wrong, what is wrong, what is at the end stage of the truth and what is a lie in a system. This also makes it indisputable to respect, the dignity of school space, our children and themselves. School principals, or in the case of school centres, are those who have the power of choice of employees in our legislation. They are the ones who check the legal section that I have described, but at the same time I believe that through talks and interviews with candidates and candidates they somehow feel this segment, which, as it is said, cannot be legally defined, because each one of us has a slightly different view of it. But what I want to say is that we certainly have to expect – and I believe that the principals and directors also do – to choose new employees to choose people who, by their work, bring the highest possible professional quality and also value reference to the space in which they then work.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u140	Thank you very much again. Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I'll say something like that – expected. But it was from my graduates that I received the initiative to ask this question, and that is how it came about. Schools and their leaders — the principals you spoke about — sometimes take very little time. These procedures are quite quick. I said that now it is known that there are quite a few teachers, then we also have a few invitations, I must say. If these invitations are made quickly, if not already attracted by the invitations I have actually looked at three invitations for a teacher in this case, namely a teacher of technology and technology, a teacher of extended stay and classroom education, all for elementary schools, a teacher of Slovenian and English. [[…]] General conditions are required on education, secondary education, then university higher education, Slovenian knowledge, perhaps one foreign language, computer skills and so on, and non-penalty after sexual inviolability for one year. But what I wanted to learn from you today is that our schools now have enough staff available and then maybe not enough time to invest in really choosing a teacher who has competences, personality cuts, is a suitable character for a teacher's job, he likes children, he has a social sense. If this does not appear in the invitation to tender, you find it hard to believe that this is something that is being paid attention. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Just very briefly, perhaps more than a comment. These are future employees who, in the first place, demonstrate their relevance to the job already through vocational education. So I believe that, within the framework of the study programmes that they adopt them and from which these people are also successfully graduated, they will also win the competences that you are talking about. Then there is another segment, which is probably broader personality and characteristics. In some ways, it must be respected, but, of course, be careful, even as a leader, when and until when these references or values of this nature are to strengthen, strengthen and make the school space even more respectful, dignified, and integrative, where it ends. And then, in such cases, have the right mechanisms to talk about it, to somehow alert it, to talk and see why certain things are done differently than is expected. However, this is not a legal obligation, but very often we see that in the procedures for selecting candidates for job vacancies, directors in practice expect or ask for a CV and then decide on it. It's not a systemic legal requirement, but it's one of the information that this guy you're asking about. What is the red thread on this issue is as rich and complex as possible the complexity of legal references on the one hand, is saying what is formality, and what a person with his or her expertise then brings to his or her place of work, even if you want, ethics, a valuable view, in the final stage of the heart, because it is working with children.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next is Violeta Tomić, who will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! I've asked you a question. This isn't the first time. 10. at the session when I asked you how you feel about violence against women. You told me you had zero tolerance for this repulsive act. I was very pleased with your answers. I think we both agree that trafficking in human beings is, however, the most repugnant crime we can imagine. And now we have, in the media, seen that a prominent SDS representative, a municipal councillor, a businessman who even named the street, in his night club Tropicana in Shentil with his criminal association under the promise of a better life and a well-paid job in the ministry, has lured quite a nice number of women, especially from the Dominican Republic, as well as from Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia, and thus gained quite a wealth benefit in almost 10 years of this illegal and criminal activity. I can also look at a whole bunch of photos where our most visited Member, Mr Marijan Pojbič, is a member of the SDS President Janez Janša, and the Mayor of Šentilj, Mr Edvard Chagran, and so on, as well as, we see, he has been hanging out with you. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: Is it true that Belna was your personal friend and even your occasional counselor? What did he advise you about? So that we don't hear from anyone else, I'm interested in your answer. The second thing I want to know is: How is it possible for an internal minister, who, after his role, should pursue crime, to associate with and even make friends with people who go beyond the limits of the law? Can you and citizens of Slovenia be sure to claim that you knew nothing about the controversial business of your friend and the visible member of the SDS? Can you really promise us that you will not interfere with procedures like you like to do and that you will ensure a fair and independent treatment of the crime regardless of whether it is your personal friend and an extremely successful, visible member of the SDS party? This is not the last thing the country and the citizens are interested in. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u146	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. I have to say, I was a little surprised when I got on the table just by asking me an oral question about the illegal exploitation of women. Now I understand why you did not predict it more exactally or more broadly. First of all, I have to say that it will probably be difficult to reject your insinuations or your allegations, because at the end of the day, whatever I say, I think you'll say that in the next three minutes you don't, or you'll say that you don't believe me or anything like that. But I'll do my best. First of all, about who my friend is and how long I've known him, and so on. I can tell you that I met a specific person – now I can't tell you the exact date, but I will do my best if you are so keenly interested – at the time that we took a look at the drill with the drones at the Slovenian-Austrian border with the Austrian Interior Minister. I think it was October or something. At that time, I am essentially on my own initiative, because whenever I go to the field, I also visit the representatives of our party, because I think it is good that I, as a minister, keep in touch with the people who work on the ground with our membership and who, not least, defend our position, Mr Belno has also met. That was October, November, now I don't know exactly. Not to repeat myself, I'll be able to tell you exactly this date. At that time, Mr Belna, as chairman of the municipal committee, also showed me what he did in his professional career, including the construction of those houses and so on, so you will also find the picture where I was photographed with him at the chapel, where I wrote that I appreciate the work of our people working in the field, which is, of course, the work for the client and the like. I know Mr. Belno, so if I say three, four months over my thumb. That's the first time I've ever seen him. First and last time. You say he's my friend and I don't know how long I've known him, and so on. I don't know where you got this from, but it's an obvious lie. Who's being photographed with whom? Madam honourable Member, but you know that I am almost certain that if I went to Google a little, I would find you in some picture with the eminent mayor of the largest city, Ljubljana, who has also found himself in very strange business in this regard. I'm not going to say prostitution, but we've all been able to read about how a certain service was conditioned by certain services. And you won't hear me say you're his friend and you're his supporter and so on. I'm not going down to that level. As for what you said at the beginning, I still stand by my words. These words will also be followed by actions or by actions. The exploitation of women or the exploitation of children, everything in this regard is certainly one of the most reprehensible acts that are criminal and will undoubtedly be investigated by the police. I don't want to be this gentleman's lawyer because I don't even want to get involved in this investigation. I think it's right for the police to do everything they have to do. However, I was very concerned to see that it was written on that order, if I am not mistaken by the police or the prosecution, that it was the visible representative of the SDS. That's what worried me. Because if it said that he was exploiting women or exploiting children or exploiting prostitution or exploiting prostitution and so on, he would understand that he was being persecuted. However, if it says that the visible representative of the SDS is, I wonder if this police department is actually chasing a man just because he is a member of a democratic parliamentary party. I don't think so. I don't think that's right. Once again, I would not like to be his advocate, but according to my information, as I know, he owns this place. The owner of this place, and he leased this place. These words that you have just said here that he has used himself for not knowing how much money, that he has provided services of organised crime in terms of bribing or smuggling people, that he organised prostitution, are not accurate, according to my information. If they are, however, I do not care whether he is the SDS president at the highest level or the president of this last local committee, he must be responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u148	Mr Hojs, you've done very well. He must answer, even if he is the president of the SDS, I agree. He wasn't in this police investigation just because he's a prominent member of the SDS. You're deceiving. You met him in October, God knows what year, it doesn't matter to me that you've already become this gentleman's lawyer. I'll say so. With whom do I ever take pictures – you know, Mr Jankovic is politically much closer to you than to us, which has proved to be a fine feature of the Horn. So let's just leave those rigging to the left, right. There is only a legal path and an illegal path, there is democracy and totalitarianism, and not left, right, as you want to instill and deceive people in any way. But there's something else I'll be warning you about. On the double morale of the same people you are selling, your prominent members, women, on the other hand, you have already decided to refuse an application for the international protection of your mother and her two teenage daughters, even though they have fled to Slovenia after an unimaginably cruel act. In fact, in the country of origin, the applicant was raped by uniformed persons in the presence of her daughters because of her husband’s political affiliation. And your ministry notes that, if I quote you, "the rape received by the applicant, otherwise all condemnation of a valuable act, but as such does not constitute inhumane and degrading conduct" and that "the reasons for compassion and humanitarianism, which are completely reasonable and humane, do not fall within the field of international protection". Hello, Minister!? Hello? Even though the applicant has been living here for four years, the girls have been attending school here, and they are in the home for sex circumcision and forced marriage. How is it possible that this is happening in the 21st century? You explain it to me because you're obviously a very smart man. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u150	Thank you very much. No, Your Honor, I can't explain this to you. I'm not smart enough to explain it. You can't explain that. It's like I said in the first three minutes, whatever I say, you'll turn it around, you'll turn it around, and that's exactly what you did. That's exactly what you did. You said it didn't matter what year it was, when I met someone. You said otherwise I could say it's the same for everyone, but it's not going to be the same. And you said even more that I am more of a friend to Mr Jankovic than your left option. But let's leave this, I will still make the right call to the end, because after all you are a Member of the National Assembly and Members deserve the right and credible answers. If we leave prostitution aside now, I have to say on my own that this is exactly what it is, trafficking in human beings, one of the key issues we are dealing with at the Ministry of the Interior. We even have a special department for that. This year we will hire additional people so that in our schools we can speed up education in this direction, not only by doing what we have done in recent years, leaving it to some non-governmental organisation, but within our ministry we will employ an appropriate number of people who will be able to circulate through Slovenian schools and educate our primary schoolchildren in this direction, what is a crime and what is not a crime. As far as prostitution is concerned, it must be said that it has been decriminalised since 2003, so offering sexual services is no longer a crime if we are talking about some gentlemen doing it. It is, of course, a crime and must be processed if someone forces someone into it or organizes such a network. Surely it is right for all of us to resist this with the greatest effort. I believe that the police will do their utmost to investigate this particular case in such a way that those who have done so will be punished. And once again, I don't care who it is, either left or right, but whoever it is has to answer for it. As far as I'm concerned, if I say this, tragic case, it must be tragic about the asylum seeker. It probably doesn't make sense that I'm answering in that sense, because you're going to say it anyway, but if you didn't know, you should know, but if you didn't know, why didn't you know, like you told me in the Thompson case? I am not dealing with any concrete procedure, Mrs Tomic. For this we have the competent services, these people are implementing the law as they have to, it is said in the framework of the Administrative Procedure Act, and I did not go into the specific matter myself. However, I was told that they had taken into account all the legal grounds, all the international judgments and all the things that had to be taken into account. Unfortunately, this is sad, the legislation is such that this particular case did not fall into the segment where the lady or her children would be entitled to asylum. This is not the fault of our employees, not of me. Or maybe you who have adopted such legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u152	Of course, I cannot waive this parliamentary privilege to request the Minister's replies to the debate in the National Assembly. What we've heard has been one great deceiving, laying responsibility even for me, who never asked you anything about Thompson, please, Minister. I'm the one who referred to the facts. What I didn't know, I asked you to explain. And we have not adopted such legislation. You are a minister and you could at least decide, after a healthy salary, what is the right of a woman to stay in Slovenia if she comes as a refugee in an unfortunate situation with her daughters, say, we are talking about three women, and there with quite 38 who are selling them. Please! And then you take your picture, Mr. Belna showed you his business – wonderful. Did he show you the whorehouse? He showed you the chapel, of course, because he buys his vacations, which people very much like to do with double morals, which I see is a lot of practice in the ruling party. Go to Mass, pay your leave and think you can do whatever you want. I will indeed hold you to Mr Bojan Belno's word that you will treat him as any other criminal offender. And not now, her, he was broadcasting, he didn't know – Šentilj is a very small place. I'm from a small place, too, and you know, because you go to those ends, because you also have a mare and a wife there, you know everything. You can't come and visit a neighbor without knowing who's here. Don't talk to me because I really didn't swim after the burn, and really, don't be a fool of us all sitting here without knowing. So that he can take you to see the chapel to take pictures, and nobody knows anything about the whorehouse, and there's the mayor there, Marijan Pojbič, an MP from that end, no one knows what's been going on for 10 years. This time, I will take advantage of the parliamentary privilege of actually having a debate on this. About the unacceptable bullying of fugitives who yearn for a better life, who want to provide their children with bare survival, but when one comes from abroad and can sell it and make a business out of it, it is very welcome. A catastrophe, a shame that I, as a woman, as a mother, as a man, cannot stand to see. So I ask that we really discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršk, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u154	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, good afternoon! Incomprehensibleness, inconsistentness and unreasonableness have marked a number of measures taken by the current government at the time of the epidemic. As early as February, the Government adopted a non-life measure imposing a negative test on covid-19 on migrant workers on their return to Slovenia. At the time, we immediately moved to the SAB, and at the special press conference, we called on the Government to withdraw this immediately for the people of the burdensome action. Common sense tells me to respond even now that the government has tightened the conditions due to the new versions of the virus and has reintroduced the testing of all exceptions that so far could have passed without a test. To my surprise and shock, she did not include two-owner farmers among the exceptions, despite your announcement, Minister Hoys, that this might happen. I really don't understand who are being threatened by fruit growers and winemakers who process their properties on both sides of the border. I want to know: What is the risk to public health posed by two-owner farmers? How is it that, for example, construction — quite correctly — the test for employees is no longer needed, but the two - owner needs it, despite the fact that most of the work is done by himself or within the so - called bubble of his own family? When will the government take action and put an end to this non-life measure? I would like answers from the Minister, Mr President. And if the Minister of Agriculture can answer me in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. The Minister of Agriculture will reply in writing. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u156	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. First of all, I have to say that he doesn't hold on to the indication that all exceptions require a test. We still have exceptions in two categories of them, in the above category you have, say, all those who transit across Slovenia, or those who come to Slovenia and return from Slovenia in six hours, or after existing categorization, all those who are, say, less than 13 years of age coming to Slovenia alone for school, or diplomats would find some of these exceptions. Then we have a second category of exceptions, which are according to the new, that is, in the last 14 days, actually classified in the category of exceptions where the test is required. Among them are parents who drive children to school, all those who are over 14 years of age, weekly migrants also have to be tested, and day migrants also have to be tested. Among them are those who work in fields or fields. For this second category of exceptions, the Government has decided that sufficient testing is only once a week, so the test should not be older than seven days, not as in some when it should be less than 48 or 24 hours. In addition, in the week before this implementation was actually implemented, we have made sure that at all or at four main points, i.e. in Cyprus and in Goriška, we have introduced the possibility of free testing to all those who wanted to do so and who are in this category of daily or weekly border crossings. What you're saying is, of course, that's true. I have announced that I am counting on my proposal to be accepted and confirmed by the expert committee. For I myself have proposed two things. I suggested that the nighttime movement limit should be reduced by two hours, so that we could draw the matter to 22 p.m. and cut it down by one hour in the morning, given that the bright part of the day is getting longer and that people probably have a lot to do in the fields and somewhere else or maybe just to relax. My second suggestion to the expert committee at the time was that the two-owners should be exempted from this test, even more, we explicitly wrote, in order to make it clear to epidemiologists, doctors, that it is not just the two-owners, but that it is the two-owners who work exclusively in the fields and do not go anywhere but just to their own field. This means that they come across the border, do the work, return, does not mean that because they are bi-owners, they can go across the border, do the work, and then drive to the nearest store in Italy or vice versa. Thus, even a special exception has been written where this matter has been clearly and precisely defined. I must say, of course, that you have found correctly, unfortunately, the expert committee of both my proposals has not confirmed. The fact that the Government subsequently followed the expert committee's opinion fully confirms the fact that we have been talking about for a long time, that is, that our decisions are still linked to what the expert committee is proposing or what experts decide. In this spirit, the expert commission has said that, for the time being, it is assessing that this duality related to seasonal work is not yet so problematic that it will probably be more critical in the spring or the time in which it comes, and that both the first and the second proposals will be discussed and decided within 14 days. That is said, I am counting on both proposals to be re-decisiond or discussed today or tomorrow. I think that even today they have a meeting or this session, which means that if my proposal was adopted 14 days or three weeks ago, perhaps the government could have adopted a different arrangement this week and introduced for the two-owners what I said I had already proposed, so that these two-owners would have been excluded from the test. However, as I said, if this is adopted, it will be clearly stated in the decree that it is only these types of work and not some combination of work in the field and then a visit to trade or something like that. However, I think it is very clear to everyone that what is most important in this pandemic is that we limit contact to the greatest extent. In fact, besides vaccination, this is the path that can eradicate this unfortunate disease.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u158	Minister, I'm pleased with what you've told me. So something's moving, if I understand it well, at least you have this desire to solve this matter a little bit, I'm not going to say a misunderstanding, but this nonsense that happened at this point. But you're right. I agree with you 100 percent that this can't be a permit for anyone who has a real estate in another place. Absolutely. That is how the rules must be written, and I absolutely agree with that. But it is true — and I will really take you as my word that you will do it — that, above all, those who really cultivate the earth were the biggest problem. Some congregations, as you know, organize tests. For example, on Saturdays in Brda, the congregation organizes tests and helps them in some way. And back there, they're sniffing their noses and everything that's there, because you know how invasive that is and all that. Let's let it stop. In general, there are some congregations. But along the entire border that you know is really long, it goes from Austrian work down, Italian to Koper and the end, some municipalities don't organise it. The most important thing is what you said, and I absolutely agree with you: especially for those who process. Because we know what the term is now, now it is necessary to plow, now it is necessary to prepare, now it is necessary to process, trim the vines and all that there is to say, and they go just because of it across the border. You know, in the community of Komen – as you know, I was also the mayor there, and I know exactly what it is like – there are certain vineyards that go practically across the border. In Brda they go across the border, down in Istria they go across the border, literally they go across the border, so he can't, because he goes across the border for example just trim the plantation, you know, come up with this test to control it, whether or not it's from there. I believe in you and I hope in your word that you will really approach to get rid of these people, given that they are going now, as the image shows, as you say, the data will be a little bit upward, and right now there will be the most work for them. That they will not be really threatened now, because then all agriculture and other things will be threatened, because I am not only talking about the vine, but I am also talking about other things. So I'm happy and I hope for your positive solution on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u160	Thank you, Member, for being pleased in this part. I must say that I, too, hope that we have convinced this expert committee, however, precisely with these arguments, as you have said, and which I have also explained 14 days ago – that this is, I would say, a little senseless. On the other hand, we have to be honest that — and I consider this to be very much in addition to the people who live on these ends — in fact, no one has actually checked these people’s intentions to see whether you stepped two vines across or two vines back. But it's obvious in people that there's such a lot of consciousness that if there's something written, they stick to it, and that's why they've been looking for all these test points. As you say, you organized them in that congregation. The state has organized additional points, I must say. Civil protection has also worked hard, we have done so on our hands, or we have wanted to reach out to people to say a little more on their own when it would make sense to do this testing. I don't think it makes sense that these test points are there all the time. Since it's only necessary to do this once a week, I think it makes more sense to say that we do it every Wednesday and Friday, for example, and then you do it all week. As far as this is concerned, it is also necessary to say — in fact, the same everywhere — that we did not do it on the northern border. Of course, there are no such problems with crossing borders due to the processing of fields or vines so on because it is not there. And there's another thing. The Austrians have been demanding these tests for quite some time, so that people there, including those who go to school, had to carry out tests or tests because of Austrian requirements. But we are – what can I say? – we also introduced the same system on the Hungarian border and provided additional testing points there. As far as things are concerned, I have to say that according to the latest data – and I am not speaking for us now, I am speaking for Italy. Just yesterday, some of my friends from Furlania called me and said that things are getting a little more severe with them. Of course, I believe that those who go across the border only to their own country will not have any contact with those who are somewhere in Vidma's home or in Udinah or in Trieste, but I want to say that other countries are also considerably restricting movement precisely because of the fact that people's contacts will be as small as possible. If I finish. I also hope that in this week – which would mean that this would then be the Saturday, as these decisions are adopted, Saturday-sunday – we will succeed in this proposal that the two-owners, for the purposes of which we have spoken, be exempted from the test and that they do not need to do this test.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u162	Thank you. Minister, I hope I really do. I think you understand the problem because the problem is really serious. We're not talking 50,000, 100,000 people here, okay? Here we are talking about real farmers, if we say that, who use the land for their activities, for their survival. If we have the possibility of open agricultural trade in any case, including in red zones, we must also give farmers the opportunity to cultivate their land under such conditions as are slightly specific, if I say so. That's what this is about. So I hope it's true on your part, and I believe you can probably put this new proposal on the government this week. One solution could also be the vaccination of these people. This could also be one option, because there are not many. We've seen how many are on the lists right now. It wouldn't be any more or no less than that. Just as I have already proposed that traders should be preferred because they are in contact with people every day. Instead of being tested every week, we'd be on a priority list, because there aren't so many, a few thousand, all of them. That's what I'd like from you. I suggest now, I don't know if I can or can't. If this had not been resolved within one week, 14 days, we would have held a public debate here in one of the future meetings. Mostly, thank you, Minister, for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, distinguished Madam Minister, colleague, colleague! My question today is like this. Distance training and other lifeless coronation have left great consequences for primary school students, students, both social and psychophysical. According to research by the Faculty of Sport or the SLOfit system, we can talk about the worst crisis of physical and movemental development of children in Slovenia at all times. Why? They found that at the moment we have the biggest decline in the mobility of Slovenian children in the history of monitoring this, minus 13% after the first wave plus an additional minus 3% after the second, so minus 16%. Then the second increase in subcutaneous fat in more than half of the primary population and the third largest increase in the proportion of children with obesity in the monitoring history. We are threatened by the emergence of a so-called coronation, which will be less effective, which will be more frequent, which will also be known in the long term at the health treasury, so that I do not even talk about the quality of life of these children. We must be aware that this is also a generation that has missed out on floating literacy and on-site schooling, which included, among other things, a huge note in the social development of children. And as if you, Madam Minister, were making fun of these children, yesterday we learned that schools will no longer be able to compete for money that would otherwise allow them to carry out additional sports activities, because the simple ministry has excluded them from the range of sports performers, where children could learn to swim extra, learn volleyball, and also develop some of their motor skills. As far as I'm concerned, this is totally unacceptable and I have a feeling, Madam Minister, that you live on another planet. At the round table of LMŠ we organised last week, we pointed out that distance sport learning has put students on the sidelines, that students have had too little time for moving activities and that, according to experts, the learning success has also become worse. In fact, the link between motor activities and motor development and cognitive activity on the other hand is of course very large. In order to limit the damage, schools should increase the use of learning forms that increase the movement activity. The teaching of all subjects should take place in the open air as far as possible under appropriate weather conditions. Sports education is one that has a strong impact on children's well-being and improves the difficult perception of learning substance even through the Internet as it has been. Now, my question. Since schools have been late all summer to prepare for outdoor classrooms, I wonder: Why didn't you do it? Is sports education going to suffer again? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u165	I'm sorry, Madam Ambassador, time's up. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member Divac Mirnik, honourable Members of Parliament! Yes, it is undeniable that distance education leaves its consequences. The profession is the one that is already giving this assessment, which it will also give, and at the same time, in these current times, gives a lot of constructive, alternative professional proposals on how to either replace these consequences or somehow adapt to the real conditions with which we are living and in which we are living. In the field of sports education, the fact is that the epidemiological situation and measures in this connection are even more difficult – something like what I will then answer later in the case of music schools – and that it is necessary to approach even more cautiously and in a different way for safety. Here I'm talking about mixing bubbles, here I'm talking about, as a rule, sports training is carried out separately in girls' groups, separately in boys' groups. I am talking about it being carried out in certain premises and certain facilities that need special security protection and measures at a given time, such as swimming pools. In the light of all of this, of course, sports education also had to adapt to this fact. Teachers and schools themselves have successfully done so since the spring epidemic, and then in the summer, as well as for the implementation of this year’s school year. As far as schooling itself or the implementation of this subject is concerned, schoolchildren have been given very clear guidelines for driving exercises, activities that are also related to what you have previously pointed out in the issue of obesity, which are in fact related to healthy lifestyles, by maintaining activity, general exercise, which undisputedly strengthens or enables healthy lifestyles. Also, a great deal of the educational process has moved into nature or outer space, as we know there that movement is also much more recommended in terms of the circumstances. Since we will probably have time in another part, I would still like to touch the stories of yesterday because I really wish that all of us together in these difficult times do not do stories where there is no story. The compulsory part of the school program is that which is carried out in this way, now in an adapted form, but follows the compulsory curriculum, including in the field of sports education. Financially, this is a direct responsibility of the state budget. So, nothing has changed in the exercise of sports education. Then we also have a certain part of sports programmes that we understand as additional, as superstandard programmes, and they are financed from other sources. These other resources are generally municipal budgets under the annual sport programme, namely budgets and finances under the national annual sport programme and what comes from the national annual sport programme in the form of funding to the Sports Institute. Given the current epidemiological situation and the experience of last year's annual sports programme, where we financed six, six whole primary schools from almost 500, to the total value of all six schools for 17,000 euros, and when these schools, for limited epidemiological reasons, were also unable to successfully and fully implement the programmes, some even failed, then for these reasons we transferred the full funding of this superstandard programme to the Institute of Sport, namely, this amount of €40 000, which was last year, increased to € 161 000,770. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u167	You're out of time, too. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Because, of course, I've run out of time, just like now, ministers. I believe that only six schools took advantage of or applied for that invitation last year, but we do know more about the virus this year, and schools are also organised differently than last year, so I am sure that if this invitation were to be issued this year or to allow primary schools to apply for it, it would probably be bigger. That's why I'm asking you in this place to turn them on and not do this circuit. Because, as we heard yesterday, a lot of sports instructors said that in that Hura, sports teach a lot during vacations, how professional it is, but it is another. But we are at a time when it is imperative that experts take these things into their own hands and that they conduct sports activities. This is possible, as far as my question is concerned, why did you do it? Now, here's the next question. According to experts, it was those young people who competed, who were quite high on some scales, who were the most late. This matter or covid will only be compensated within four years, which is actually terrifying, which means that we may not have top athletes in four years. It would be very necessary, and this is also my proposal for you to re-establish the Healthy Lifestyle Programme in schools, as the project has been proven effective for the physical capacity of children. And also because you last gave that you are now planning to change curricula to increase the number of hours of sports education. This is something that I think is essential that we will be able to repair all of this damage that has been caused, which we do not even know yet, and which will not finally be reflected in the health treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for continuing. Again, because I really want this to be heard loud and clear. One more time. This year, there will be € 161 000 770 for so-called additional programmes or superstandard programmes for the implementation of sport activities, compared to €40 000 last year. And an application will be made for everyone. That's the key. Now, at this very moment, the Planica Sports Institute has already given all beneficiaries a preliminary announcement on this, so that they can really fully prepare themselves for the criteria and so on. Everything is adapted according to the quality of what has already enabled the annual sports program, and also upgraded. Next thing. In the new European financial perspective, you are right, a project of so-called healthy lifestyle is planned for families and will be carried out by sports companies at local level. This is another of these measures, let's call it indirect, to really strengthen sports activity not only for children but also in the family environment. We are about to call for, I expect this month, after 11 years of re-investment in the reconstruction and construction of outdoor sports areas in nature, where the municipalities are expected to be given the opportunity to co-finance and invest also in order to build or restore sports areas and thus enable them to engage in outdoor sports activities. And that's something that's actually the key novelty. At the same time, I would like to point out one more thing. You know, we have a system that we will also talk about very much and proudly during the Presidency of the European Union. It's probably the only one on the world's level, it's called a sports chart, where sports and development achievements from year to year are measured and then can be compared. Based on this, this study is also about which you have talked about and which gives absolutely great alarms and calls, but I would still like it to be repeated when all the children come back. Because we're really going to get professionally objective results. Because these measurements, according to our information, have often been done in such a way that children have measured themselves. Which is also something that we will take for granted as important information, but we still have to look at it relatively, in order to do what we can for further sports activity, healthy sports activity. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u172	Sporting young people and all we now know about the damage caused by covido is something where red lights really have to shine in the country. Why? Because we are talking about young people because we are talking about children, young people, not least students who are getting fatter, because we are talking about children with reduced motor skills, motor skills, because we are actually talking about someone who will take care of us in a few years and who will last lead this country. That is why we must now pay all our attention to this. It's about young people. A healthy lifestyle is a matter of maintaining a healthy society. If we don't keep it now, then in the long run, it's very bad for us. All these studies show that the situation is becoming more and more worrying. Given the fact that we are not going to sail out of this situation so soon, it is still going to get worse. I therefore propose that the Ministry consider increasing the number of hours of sports education both in primary school and in the final stage of secondary school. Why? Because children have now sat for six months because they sit in front of computers all day long, so that we don't even talk about how they sat at the time of education. If you ask, say, high school kids who have a little bit more learning than anyone else, you'll see that children between 10 and 15 hours in front of computers, and that's catastrophic for our society. I therefore welcome all these projects, which you said would happen, both investment for external sports areas and that we will restore the sports charts. I do not want what we learned from the media yesterday to happen — that you expelled primary schools from the invitation to tender. It is true, as you said, that more money will be spent this year on these activities during the holiday season, but schools are not last closed, so I am afraid that it will remain in some societies that are or are not professional enough. I can't judge this, but I want experts to be the ones who would be the ones who have missed six months to really actively apply and target sports so that they can live a normal life. Mr Vice-President, I propose that we discuss this issue very deeply in the National Assembly, because it is essential for our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Franci Kepa will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister of Infrastructure and colleagues, colleagues! My theme is the overpass at Trebnje, or the town of Zidani Bridge, or near Štefan, which lies near Trebnje, about two kilometers away. In 2017 a central TPV warehouse near Velika Loka was built. It's a big company, it's built a huge warehouse, a large facility, a surface-sized facility, a volume plant. He employs people from the nearby village of Velika Loka and the surrounding area. All very grateful, thank God we have such facilities in rural areas. It would be good if there were more. When opening or before building, there was a promise that an overpass in the town of Zidani Bridge along with Štefan or Trebnje would be carried out almost parallel or immediately after construction. This is supposed to be an overpass across the railway and Temenica, perpendicular to the road R3652/1457, which itself is also a public road passing from Trebnje onward, and then a state road from Štefan onward to Catež. Heavy trucks or tow trucks driven from the TPV and other companies are many and almost all drive through Trebnje past the church for one-way export across the railway and two old bridges or three and then on H1. The trucks could also drive across the valley of Temenice past Velika Loka, Gabra and then to Beach and to export to the highway, but the road near Trebnje is closer and they mostly decide to go here. We need no trucks in the peak of the day to get into the market because of one-way bridges. These trucks that drive through the intersection at the church are dangerous for many older citizens. It is now four years from the construction of the factory in Veliki Loka, and we still have no papers to collect documentation for this overpass in the Wall Bridge. I want to know: How far are we from building a superstructure in the Wall Bridge, how far is this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u176	Thank you. Thank you for asking. DRSI, Republic of Slovenia Infrastructure Directorate, prepares for the construction of the overpass across the Temenice River a full tender documentation, i.e. for the production of DGD, documentation for the acquisition of the building permit, as well as PZI, documentation required for the project documentation for the execution of the construction itself. The tender documentation will be produced in May this year, 2021. The deadline for the construction of projects will be one year, that is, until next year. 12 months, which means that the project documentation will be completed in December 2022. This is followed by land ownership and land acquisition. Let me say here in the introduction that this is not just up to us when it comes to the site itself to obtaining the other documentation. As soon as the land is acquired, the procedure for obtaining the building permit will follow and we will begin construction immediately. So there's no delay here, but we're going straight ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u178	Thank you, Chairman. At the opening of the highway in the summer of 2010, it was said — then pressure or desire — to open the highway past Trebnje, even though parallel buildings that should have been built and completed in the short term were not yet completed. These are connections or entrances to Trebnje, because you know, now the matter is close, but it's only after 11 years. Then the rescue of two bridges near Trebnje, and the connection at Lake to remove dangerous overpasses over the former highway, the current H1, the old highway. With that we have bad experience, and I hope, I wish now that you've come that things are moving faster than they can be seen. But we have a bad experience with this. It's been 11 years. If the mayor might have been more determined then — or determined — he believed that what was promised from the State would be done, but now 11 years ago the matter has been going on. In fact, he could have waited until the end before opening so he wouldn't have given a green light to open the freeway. That was 11 years ago, and things aren't over yet, which they're supposed to be. Even so, these two bridges were overcategorized. They are now being taken over by the local congregation, or it will be the cost of rebuilding, or remodeling, above the railway in the center and the other bridge. I'd still like to know if you've already ordered something, the exact date of the construction of this overpass in the Wall Bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u180	Thank you. What was actually delayed 11 years ago, this government is trying to fix now and we are doing this moment. I said that the tender documentation will be made in May 2021, the deadline for the construction of projects is 12 months. It could be eight, nine months, and I believe we're going to hunt these hands, and we're going to start building it in early 2022. That's what I want. That's it. What's been delayed in the past, but I can't fix it. We've been here a year. I believe that if we were here for more time, 10 years, we could make more arrangements, but unfortunately we're not. Because the provision of primary infrastructure seems important or primary infrastructure, including roads, railways, the provision of such infrastructure is one of the key stakeholders that people remain in the countryside to stay there and not to move out. If we do not guarantee this in the long run, then people will go to the cities and the countryside will be empty. So this part of Slovenia has a hearing. It's not just up to us, it's up to the land plot. But count that 2022, I believe we can start building this. In my view, documentation will be made sooner than in one year, although I do not know what we could do for a longer time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mag. Meira Hot will ask Minister of Health Janez Poklukar and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u182	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Mr. Secretary, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! In recent weeks, economic activity restrictions have begun to differ across regions. In particular, in the coastal-Kraška region, traditionally dependent on tourist visits and hospitality offers, a whole range of colour labels was exchanged in the meantime, even though this did not constitute a significant change for certain sectors. Their activity is still closed or severely restricted. For the regional economy, this is a disproportionately greater shock, as a large proportion of people are associated with hospitality and tourism activities, Istria and Kras season are traditionally starting early, and therefore the absence of visits is all the more familiar. It is also not irrelevant that doubts arise as to whether the Government has adhered to its own rules in the colour labelling of risks in that region. It creates confusion among people, severe damage to the economy. On the one hand, there are certain activities that have been closed for almost six months on the basis of government decrees and that will not be able to open up their activities if measures are further tightened for at least a few months. It is unreasonable that certain activities where in fact a whole host of people can be gathered — for example, within shops where even poor ventilation and the risk of proliferation can actually be higher — are allowed and, on the other hand, there must be closed terraces of catering establishments, even though distance can be ensured, followed by measures and that, in this case, the spread of even lower risk or no data is likely to spread on guest terraces. For example, last week in Cyprus, the inn looked desperately at passersby who took coffee with them, and then sat together on a bench next to each other or bought alcohol at a nearby grocery store and sat and drank together again on a bench or on a pier. In short, there is severe discrimination between different activities, raising doubts as to the relevance of all measures acting as illegal and unfair to certain segments of economic activity. They are also asked about the criteria on the basis of which the transition from one stage to another is established. The State plan no longer appears to be addressing the appropriate spread of the virus and it is necessary to rewind and adapt to the real life. After six months of bad numbers, when the second wave has not been completed and we are already in the third wave, it is clear that we are not coping properly with the epidemic and we need a different approach. By measures that will make people feel logical, acceptable, and truly respectable. That is why I believe that this also requires an overwinding of the closure of certain activities that have experienced a real disaster due to the epidemic. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary, On the basis of what indicators has the Government decided in the last two months to place the Coastal-Kraška region at risk? How did it follow the pre-set criteria for restricting or releasing activities? How will you ensure that areas particularly affected by restrictions on movement and service provision allow for limited opening of services and assistance due to disproportionate impact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Who wants a word first? Mr. Poklukar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Member, Mrs Meira Hot, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall take measures according to epidemiological indicators. Of course, epidemiological indicators are clear, but very broad in terms of monitoring, we have both a positive number per day and a health burden, which is a major obstacle from this point of view, which we can do as a society. At this point, the main threat is a marked rise in the meaning of the third wave, which we have been accompanying last week in terms of a 20 per cent increase in the number of positives compared to the previous week, and a significant increase in the variants or versions of the virus that we follow through the sequencing. The main restriction on release is the burden of health care or what health care can do. The coastal and karst region was in the red phase until recently, in line with the changes in epidemiological image was 18. 3. classified in the yellow phase. With this comes the removal of restrictions on movement, gathering people up to 10 and opening shops How? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] The orange phase was 18 years old. 3. I'm sorry. Of course, we've been in an epidemic for a year now, and we all want to relax. This moment, in addition to the main orientation described, is to maintain open schools and to the widest extent of the economy. We are aware of this, so we are meeting separately and professionally and with every effort, as you have indicated, to try to preserve and enable the economy and people to live as normal a life as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Restoration, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u186	Dear Member Meira Hot, National Assembly, Chairman! As far as the basis for the decision is concerned, I have already responded to the honourable Member, Mr Paulic, today. The Government shall verify on a weekly basis the eligibility of the applicable decisions and restrictions. As I have pointed out many times, the government in all anti-Korona packages thinks of everything at this time. As far as the economy is concerned, we have focused on job conservation and liquidity. The Ministry of Economy has prepared a number of proposals both within the framework of these laws and in adapting existing calls and creating new ones. Currently, we are still in the orange phase according to the current plan. The activities and services envisaged for relaxation in the yellow and green stages are also limited, while in regions with a better epidemiological image we have tested the service on gardens and terraces, of course taking strict account of all the recommendations of the profession. Tourism, hospitality are the activities most affected by the covida-19 pandemic. In 2020, we recorded the first drop in income and accommodation after 2009. The Ministry has thus prepared a number of measures to help those affected in these activities. One of the most recognized is certainly the tourist voucher which was most used in the coastal-Kraška region. We have extended the validity of these vouchers, and I am confident that they will make an important contribution to revitalising this activity once the current restrictions have been released. In 2020, in the context of the above-mentioned and other measures taken, the tourism economy was given a total of over EUR 312 million in non-refundable aid, and this year at least EUR 50 million. A public call for co-financing of operational costs in the first wave of the epidemic amounting to EUR 10 million was also made, and due to great interest we are preparing a re-commitment of EUR 36 million, and we are also preparing several more calls. We pay a lot of attention to maintaining jobs in the tourism sector and preparing favourable conditions for the relaunching of tourism activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary said a little earlier, 18. It was moved from red to orange and met the criteria already on 10 March. That's the problem. Therefore, there is no pre-predictability that the Coastal-Karska region, despite having already met the criteria since 10, was not transferred until one week later. You went on to say very nicely that you are trying to keep the economy as far as possible alive with measures. But this is exactly the problem – that you have begun to distinguish between smaller segments of the economy and more important segments of the economy. This was very clearly seen yesterday, following a statement made by respectable Mrs Logar, who said that hospitality is a less important economic sector, and I will now also read you the response of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I quote: “Guests and employees in hospitality and tourism are disgusted that our industry is considered less important. We've been locked up for over six months. The economic damage is enormous. Data show that the hospitality and tourism sectors, together with related industries, account for 20% of gross domestic product, which means that they are extremely important economic sectors. Logarova’s statement that the industry is less important is also a serious insult to 40,000 employees in the restaurant.” This is a very bad signal for one segment of the economy that is on the verge of despair, and respectable Mr Restoration knows this well, because in the end it comes from the tourist segment itself. In this context, it is necessary to rewind the measures and to check whether, under certain controlled conditions, although we are in the third wave, we can help this segment and give them the opportunity to finally start working. Even when we are talking about job conservation, the Ministry of the Economy has helped in the direction of job conservation, but today we read in the media that the biggest problem of this season in the Coastal-Kraška region will be finding a staff. Why? Since many employees in this segment have shifted to other segments, there has simply been no security in this area. Maybe your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Poklukar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Madam President. When we talk about a profession, when someone breaks a leg, when someone has a heart attack, there's no doubt that we believe in a profession, we take an aspirin against a heart attack. When we talk about the epidemic, everyone can again judge whether the profession decides correctly or not. This is where I have to stand in the line of defense. It is true, however, that there is a policy here that assumes responsibility, and the profession is, of course, proposing on the basis of its experience, its conduct in terms of the best solution of the profession. That is why there is also a minister of rest with his profession, with an economic one who proposes his own solutions to this as the medical profession sees the situation, and all together then tries to implement socially responsible policies and adopt them as a way of life. So I can see here maybe the wrong or too harsh interpretation of Dr. Logar's words. Not to defend her, but I'm just trying to explain why it might be Dr. Logar's response or performance. Otherwise, for all regions and for all colors, it is crucial – not pharmaceutical measures, but – wearing masks, disinfecting hands, distances, ventilation, self-insulation in case of positive results, quarantine in case of risky contact. This is the first part, this is the most effective public health measure to achieve sufficient fragmentation. And the second is the intersection, with the aim of opening up all segments of society and making it as normal as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Minister Restoration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u192	Thank you. First, I must say that there are no less equal sectors. This is also evident from all eight laws of the CAP. The key measures that we have also helped tourism and catering are: waiting for work, partially covering fixed costs and additional tourist vouchers. However, the fact is that the service activity is more affected because the service activity is an activity with many contacts that we had to limit. All the decisions we make, as my colleague Poklukar said, are made in agreement. On the one hand, we have an interest in opening up as many activities as possible and, on the other hand, we need to take into account the opinion of the healthcare profession with a view to managing this crisis in some way. Anyway, I'd like to say again that we're going to do everything we can to this industry, which is the most [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Your time has run out. Sorry to hear from you. Mrs Meira Hot has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u194	Thank you very much for the procedural proposal. In view of everything, I would like to continue to stress that I have no personal doubts about the profession, nor am I from the very beginning of the epidemic, and we call on all Social Democrats to respect the measures. The problem is that, after so long, citizens have started to gather in a way that is a higher risk of infection. Therefore, I say that it is possible in this situation, when these measures take so long and in reality no longer achieve their impact, but perhaps it is time to reverse logic that these gatherings happen much more controlled. Because if there is a guest terrace under conditions of distance and so on and so forth, there is much better gathering than there is in a building somewhere and so on as we have witnessed. That was basically my opinion, why I told you this today. It's not about doubting the profession, it's about doubting whether it's time for a little logic to turn this around, and I'm putting that in your mind. At the end of the day, that's what it is. It is right that you have stepped in Mrs Logarov's defense, but she also has one responsibility when she refers. The minister has just said that she does not discriminate between sectors, but she has labeled one sector less important. This is a sector that has been in solidarity with the health crisis, which has closed directly on the basis of a government decision and which, despite all the life support it has received. Many had to shut down their activities and, at such times, probably a talk that says that an economic sector is less important, experience a very unpleasant reaction among such stakeholders. Even today, they wonder where it is written or where the profession found that the risk of spreading the infection is higher when hanging out on a guest terrace under controlled conditions. One answer may be needed here. Because I think that this is a matter that really has some broader connotations and which would need to be discussed, I propose, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, a procedural proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Mr Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! A question has already been raised today regarding Safil in Ormož, however. I am giving this a much greater feature of the great disaster that is being prepared in Ormož, but I will ask the Minister. The company Safilo Ormož, which deals with the production of glasses, has more than 500 employees in Ormož and a significant contribution to the employment and economy of the surrounding region. The factory is owned by the Italian company Safilo Group S.p. A. with a seat in Padua. We also have a production that offers daily bread to many first-class workers and their families. From Safilo, we all know that in June this year, due to a plan to balance the production capacity of the group with current and future market needs, they will close the production of glasses in Ormož. This means that 557 people from this region will lose their jobs, which will have terrible social and economic consequences for the local population, as Safilo Ormož is currently the largest employee in our congregation. In addition to Ormož, the company offers employment to a number of workers from the surrounding municipalities, such as Sveti Tomaž, Centre ob Drava, Ptuj, Ljutomer, and, of course, beyond Drava, is also said in Croatia. Because of the closure of the former sugar factory, according to the local sugar factory, 350 high-quality jobs, 350 seasonal workers, and 5,000 cooperatives were already out of work in Ormož. To date, this huge hole in those times is still staring at me not to talk about a number of farms, not to talk about the collapsing in agriculture and so on. The closure of Safil would thus mean a catastrophic economic and social blow for our region. Let me also mention that in Slovenia Gradec, due to the closure of Adient's factory, to return my concern to my fellow Member from Koroška, will lose the work of all 430 employees. You said we have a stable financial situation in the country, I repeat, a stable financial situation, and you have prepared solutions to do everything you can for local employees. I want to know: What solutions do you have for local employees? Does the State intend to negotiate and prevent closure and thereby damage economic and social damage? Is there any chance that the State would buy Safilo Ormož? Is the factory going to sell or is it going to rent? What will be the fate of the factory if we fail to save production? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your question. Now, Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u198	Dear Member Jani Ivanuša, distinguished National Assembly! Thank you for asking me that question. It is true that the financial situation in the country is stable despite the adverse situation caused by the effects of the coven epidemic on the economy. The state's systemic solutions to the situation that Safilo of Ormož found. Let me tell you right here, I've been to Ormozh twice in the last week. For the first time at a videoconference with owners, and now on Saturday at a live conference with owners and with new stakeholders for possible start-up of production in Ormož. And a little bit more about that later. I must also say that our aim is to maintain economic activity, liquidity, employment and jobs. The fact that we have a good condition also confirms last week's IMF report, which states that Slovenia has responded with rapid, extensive and well-coordinated measures to the negative consequences. Even in the case of Safilo, I can say once again that on the basis of these two meetings we will prepare a solution for employees in this company. The Ministry has so far not financed the salaries of employees in the case of other companies, as you state. However, we co-financed investment costs. For example, we have earmarked financial support for the promotion of new investments in Revoz, or for the long-term preservation of Renault's factory in New Town, as it is a great employee. And if Safilo and his investment owners are interested, we will also talk in this direction. Further discussions are therefore needed as it is necessary to determine whether they are interested in restructuring or making a new investment that will keep production in Ormož; at the same time, as I said, we are also talking to potential new investors. Together, we will actively seek solutions for employees in the direction of re-employment, re-qualification, employment incentives by the Ministry of Labour. That's the last chance. We will look for new investors to take over this production at these locations, and we will look for new investors to establish a different production at these locations, with a higher added value, not least an agreement on a possible continuation of production. It is also crucial that the management of the company be properly linked to the regional employment institutions. I believe that, also because of the anti-crisis systemic measures taken, we remain a competitive business environment for the preservation of investments and also for new investments with a positive impact on employment. If I pull it off, in the case of Safilo, we have three scenarios. We, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, seek first to find a replacement option for these 557 workers, but the first objective is to find the possibility that production on this site will continue in this form or in another form. And this was also my last visit on Saturday and a meeting with existing owners as well as new owners. However, you need to know that this matter cannot be concluded in public, that a lot of energy will have to be invested in it. Here again I assure all employees that we will take care of them and that the state, the government, has the resources to support the new potential investor in Ormož. This will also be done in the case of this company from Slovenj Gradc, where we are going to check the possibilities for further production tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanus, please, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I understand your answers, but you're still a little mysterious, but it's also right that you are. I know about your Saturday visit to Ormož. I know there are dangerous waters here when you get to Ormož, but let's leave a little joke about what happened in the past. Of course, your purpose was a completely different one on Saturday. I'm also aware that you've been through Zoom in contact with the owners of the company, but still. However, I am interested because this is still a forecast, it is not a business bankruptcy, it is a business liquidation, as I understand it, and if this scenario comes from their side. I understand that you still need to get together to find out what state they're in with their purpose. But if this was what you mentioned Revoz Novo mesto, where the country quietly gives money, then this production in New City still stands; but I also have the feeling that this happened in Gorenje, Velenje, where thousands of forgivenesss were announced, today it is no longer. They're already hiring more, so I think some quiet deal the state made with these companies. I hope that this will also happen on this stage in this direction, that the state will still help to preserve this production. At least that's how I understood your answer. But if anything else happens, of course it will be a little sad for our region or our congregation, Ormož, which has already been impoverished for decades. I can also say in front of everyone that you have brought three potential investors in the past, but unfortunately they were not only interested because we have no connection with central Slovenia, that is to say with a fast road or any highway.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Minister, anything else you'd like to add? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr Member, for this further thought. In Slovenia we have one advantage – as well as you in Ormož and in Slovenj Gradec – we have a well-trained workforce, workers, coworkers who are the ones for which investors decide to come to us. They don't make decisions because we offer them some money, but they will be trained, highly skilled workforce, the argument that can make us optimistic. Of course, again, I can say that the basis for my optimism is also the possibility of financial incentives through both laws, through the Investment Promotion Act and through the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. I think we have proven in the past that we have been successful in this area. Of course, first and foremost, I would like this production to continue in this form at this location. I must say that I am impressed by the orderliness, organization of production in this company, and that this is the story that I believe we need to find – and we will find – a continuation. In any event, the State will do its utmost to encourage any potential investor with financial means as well, to decide to continue production at this large, regulated and energy-regulated location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanuša, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u204	Thank you. Minister, you said it nicely. I hope that this will keep these 500 people in their jobs in every way, so that this will not spill out, in their own words, and that, with these two laws, as you said, the Investment Promotion Act and the Law on Promoting coherent regional development, the matter will continue in the same form as it is. The topic is very hot for our place, a sparse place, so I would ask for a broader debate in the National Assembly on Safil Ormož, about the loss of these jobs or the future of these jobs. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Mr Nik Prebil will ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs, and the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear choir, minister, minister, welcome! My question relates to the law on debarcation, which arrived at the National Assembly a few minutes ago. In the government, you adopted it last Thursday, and the law itself is, I can say, kind of unusual, even though I agree that debirocratization is necessary. It is unusual, however, because in one stroke it interferes with several ten laws; and this has unfortunately become some strange practice of this government, with which I think you want to hide, hide and make certain legal changes in this way. The Communication Office stated that the purpose of the law is to simplify or bring the country closer to citizens and businesses, thus contributing to reducing costs and eliminating administrative barriers. And in a law as extensive as this, I would expect the government to at least familiarize citizens with the content of such a law. On the government portal – I looked at it right today – it is written only and only this; and I think that with such information and lack of access to such a law we cannot obtain all the relevant information. Until recently, the law should also contain provisions for amendments to the Law on Offences. Since, as it is said, the law in the National Assembly system came only a few minutes ago, I was able to verify so much that I find that this is no longer in law. Minister, I'm asking you here to explain if that's true. Minister, I want to know: Could such changes as these, in order to reduce legal protection in the field of punishment and verification of penalties in the context of handling police procedures, be planned in any other amendment to the law or perhaps even in the anti-Korona law? On what grounds was this matter withdrawn from this law on debarcation so quickly or so just before the beginning? Was it the D.A.'s warnings, any other departmental ministries or professional warnings? And there are several other matters in this marriage. Some new official sheet is being established, some new register, some new legal framework. In one expert opinion, even an unconstitutional legal framework. Add some new electronic recording, some obligation to e-mail addresses and phone numbers. I think the legal protection of individuals is being violated here. I would like you here, Minister, to define yourself on these issues, to make such changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Who wants the first word? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Member, Mr Prebil, thank you for your questions. You yourself have found that the law on debarcation no longer contains this proposal, which was previously on the Offences Act. I understand that the Ministry of the Interior wants to be effective, says the police; the fact is that both ministries also have different natures. The role of the Ministry of Justice is primarily to protect human rights; in this case, the Ministry of Justice has made comments. We cannot see this as an elimination of administrative obstacles, as it would mean lowering standards for the protection of human rights, especially the human right to a fair trial, which is contrary to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and also the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It should be that the payment order does not contain a declaration, and consequently does not record the statement itself and also a brief explanation. After coordination, which was on the side of both ministries and also coalition coordination, a consensus was reached to withdraw this amendment. We are also preparing the Offences Act, and the Ministry of Justice does not provide for such a change. I find it difficult to define myself to all the articles, and I do not think that I am competent to any of the other articles, because I think it is the trainee who can give a detailed explanation. As far as data selection is concerned, if I understand correctly, you're probably asking me about this information, both the phone number and the e-mail address, in case there's a need for service. As far as I'm concerned, it's voluntary. And if this matter is voluntary, it is in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act; otherwise, it would not be admissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u210	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! I would like to add our position to what the Minister has said. The undeniable fact is that the proposal for de-de-barcation was proposed by the police in this regard. Of course, I must say that I have taken this proposal with enthusiasm. If you look at the comparison, all or most of you have probably already received some payment order in Austria or Italy, it would be difficult to say that human rights in Austria or Italy are somewhat less secure than we do. The undeniable fact is that this is just an additional bureaucratic obstacle. The fact is, even if people complain about such a payment order, it is decided in the first instance by the commander at the police station, mostly or 99% of these complaints are rejected, even more. Most people do not even decide on these complaints, and in any case, of course, it follows if people want this judicial protection, referral to court, or to a criminal judge. That's why I felt that this was a great help to the police, that no one or a large majority would be deprived of it. The payment slip that you receive, as I have already said, in Austria, is about 10 times 8 centimeters, where they write only what you have committed or violated under the law, and there is no need for a statement. It is difficult to say that in neighbouring countries they do not implement their laws in such a way as to ensure adequate protection of human rights. Of course, the fact is what the Minister said. In interdepartmental coordination, this article has been removed from the law, I do not support it, I must make it clear, but it is clear, as in every coalition, that we are also confined to coalition partners in this coalition; unfortunately, this is not the case in the bill. As far as the rest of this is concerned, the minister has already made her point. This is data on mobile numbers and e-mails that are made available voluntarily. We don't see any problems here either, so people don't voluntarily give it up. Clearly, it is also of great interest in this national assembly that things are being bureaucratic. The e-mail address is obviously not a problem to give for each of our Booking registrations or in the mass of our electronic purchases, it is not a problem. When the state has to give you something, they are suddenly the problem of human rights, or all that has to do with it. In my opinion, there is a great deal of duality or nonconsistency.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Minister, you're a little upset about this electronic address after all. I was just asking what arrangements would remain in this marriage. And when it comes to a completely voluntary matter, there is certainly no problem. However, I wonder what de-de-barcation you will achieve at this level at all if any, if any, still the postal service takes place as normal as it has been so far. If I return briefly to that work, the Minister has answered my question that, in the context of the amendments to the Offences Act, the Ministry does not provide. Minister, you haven't replied to me since you said that you fully agree with the matter: Will any of these changes be introduced into the law or possibly even into any PKP within your ministry, since we have already seen things there that do not belong, even from the point of view of your ministry or the police? Minister, you have not answered my question about the establishment of a new register of official documents. I am also not talking about all matters relating to the law on demobilization, because it is broad and practically all the ministries. In my view, this could be a potentially unconstitutional matter because we have a clear definition of how laws are published in the Constitution, and this is the Official Gazette. I'm interested in your ministry's opinion in the context of this, but there's been a major opposition from the profession. As far as the whole marriage is concerned, there's only one thing. Many experts in this area have already made it clear that they have been excluded from the talks. I also have information that a number of ministries have not been involved in discussions on this law. I don't know, apparently the Prime Minister writes the laws himself when they don't tweet. It's a new path. And I'm asking if that's the right way to go on this government. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Who wants a word? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u214	Thank you. I'd like to answer that part. On this point, there was a debate in the government, and then we came together to make this right. However, I think that the Law-Legal Service will be able to give its opinion on this; and, of course, it is up to Parliament to decide on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u215	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u216	Thank you. If we start with the last questions, it is certain that the Ministry of the Interior will try to bring this matter back into the Offences Act. I don't know why not. However, there is probably little hope of success in view of the current coalition, as part of the coalition opposes it. It is unlikely that there will be much success here, which means, of course, that we will still have a highly bureaucratic country and that there will be no progress in this area at this time. As far as the laws are concerned, what you've said is, of course, incorrect. It was the Magi who was in charge of drafting the marriage. Ivan Simich. The government appointed a man who somehow coordinated this first law. It has been made clear that it is only one or the first law on de-de-barcation, if we are to go into marked de-birocratisation, that there is still a need to continue this. Maybe not one, maybe even more. However, I can say that this law currently interferes with twenty applicable laws, so it changes twenty applicable laws. Maybe now it's only 19 because these misdemeanors have gone out. And at this point, we are repealing more than 200 laws, which I think is also a very important step forward. However, as far as what Mrs Minister has already said is concerned, I would still give an even more detailed view, as I participated in this debate in the Committee on State Arrangements. The fact is, the Official Journal does not keep official consolidated texts. There you will be able to see that it always writes unofficially refined text or something like that. I think that all citizens must be interested, that when we open, I think, the Offences Act, we get the last purified text there; without writing that this article has been repealed, the second the Constitutional Court has annulled, the third I don't know what. I think it's extremely non-business, and it's extremely hindering for people to look for it. This led to the idea that, in my opinion, state officials, i.e. those who are preparing the law, i.e. the individual ministry, would eventually do some kind of writing, where it would be possible to see what was going on at that point in the end. Dear Member, I must tell you that the publications are in the Official Journal, although this is a state-owned company, extremely expensive, enormously expensive. The publication of things in the Official Journal is extremely expensive for the country. I am sure that much of this could be done by the office in its regular working time, which means that things would be cheap. At the same time, of course, no one says that all these things would not be in the final stage — and, as required by the Constitution — will also be published in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Primož Siter will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Minister, good afternoon! I will talk about Slovenian music schools, which we have already done at the Minister's interpretation. Slovenian schools in general have been record-breakingly closed for a long time. After this record long closing of classes in primary schools and music schools, he opened up in music schools only in part of this individual instruction of instruments. But music schools essentially offer much more than just learning instruments in their educational work. For example, the study of music theory or solfeggia and the teaching of music in classrooms is similar to that of ex cathedra schools, which is still impressed, despite the fact that schools have already opened. He stays impressed, far away. Similar fate also struck ballet and contemporary dance in music schools with unreasonable prolonged closure. Minister, questions and initiatives have been addressed to you, why things can be changed this way and how they can be changed, both the umbrella organization of music schools and the initiative of teachers, dance educators and so on. They expressed the urgency of opening classrooms for solfeggio and music classes as soon as possible and asked about the reasons for the long closure of the exercises in dance and ballet departments of public music schools at a time when private dance and training providers had just come into their own account by opening. Minister, I have four questions for you: Why should music schools not open classrooms to teach solfeggia and to teach music if classrooms are open in normal schools? Why did not the Ministry of Education also allow the opening of the teaching of contemporary dance and ballet at Slovenian public music and ballet schools when opening private sports and social exercises? Why does the Ministry not respond to the calls of music-school organisations and the initiatives of music, dance and ballet teachers when they call after the conversation and when they call after the presentation of professional opinions? And the last question in this series: With what programs will the Ministry replace manna in the pedagogical development of young musicians and musicians and dancers, ballet dancers and ballet dancers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member Siter, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is true; as elsewhere in the field of music education, this epidemic has left its consequences, its seal. I can say that we are responding very carefully and on the same footing, especially through monitoring the state and assessment that we are working together, as you know, with the epidemiological and health work of the profession, when school space is also safe in the field of music education, so that this education can also be carried out at school premises. As you know, this individual part of the teaching was provided as soon as we reopened this first important segment of primary schools; and we have also made it possible, as of today, to relaunch the education of modern dance and ballet in public schools, of course under the provided epidemiological conditions and measures, in particular with the provision of a distance of at least two metres. Here, as it is said, we are now taking steps forward, but what you do point out is that this group exercise and also education, including with the teaching of music, solfeggia, orchestras, chamber games, choir, preschool music, music and dance courses, but unfortunately this moment is still going on from a distance. One exception is in these cases, namely the exception provided by the decree. This is the possibility for any of the listed subjects to be taught by any group that the school considers necessary for the smooth continuation or completion of the education of pupils, so that in such cases, if necessary, teaching can also be carried out at the school premises. What exactly does that mean? This in particular means – what kind of admission exams, what preparations for competitions and so on. This exception is allowed, but it must again be very much highlighted that it is this type of education, where contacts are so close that caution is particularly needed. However, the additional reason is that these classes are attended by students and students from other primary so-called bubbles, which means that there is one more mix and the establishment of one new bubble, which, we know, increases the risk of infection from this health-epidemiological work. The very implementation of this distance education in all of these groups, according to our information, according to reports from music schools, is going well at this time. It is true, however, that it takes place in some forms of videoconference education, which teachers and teachers have also adapted very well to, for example, provide students with photographs of products, audio and video, on which they then provide feedback, expose what is possible, through distance education, to perform the most optimal moment, especially fatigue, repetition of learning material. The treatment of new teaching substances and content is enriched with clear short instructions, not too demanding, not too long-term activities for students, with recordings of rhythmic and melodic references for students and so on. I would like to say that this professional moment and response from teachers is extremely positive and also very respectful. Here is also the answer to your question about how we will also replace all this delay or flaw in knowledge because of the fact that education is going as it is. Absolutely on the basis of one expert opinion and the professional guidelines that these professional works will provide for this, and of course we will definitely support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Siter has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u222	Thank you for your answer, Minister. At first glance, I would say that there are meaningful answers, but yet two things remain open here. One is modern dance and ballet. No one doubts that it makes sense, at the height of the epidemic, to bring people together as little as possible. The main question remains: Why were private dance schools open on February 12th and public ballet schools and modern dance schools not open on February 12th? And we know that in the public school system it is significantly better taken care of the epidemiological and also the professional-pedagogical work. The second part is the teaching of music or music theory. An important part because this is actually the whole theoretical basis for the entire educational process. However, teaching there is similar to teaching in any other school, i.e. in the classroom; only that in schools there are 30 people 5 days a week 6 hours a day and a bubble is created, which also combines bubbles from thirty different ends; on this page we have a lesson in music, where on average they say pedagogues, from 8 to 15 children twice a week after one hour. Fewer people, it is much easier to respect all measures, less chaos. We know what children are like, but we can. And the teachers themselves addressed you with a question of why it simply cannot be done. Why not with them, like running private clubs? Why is it that in primary schools, yes, but not in primary schools? Once again, music school is not a leisure activity, but it is a very serious educational process.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u224	Yes, in fact, you have opened that classic issue that we have been facing since these closure measures began. The responsibility you take at the time as an individual, as someone who enters into a private sphere of his own volition, is taken as a risk; and when such a one occurs, say in quotations, risks, this responsibility takes over public space. And public schools are really public spaces. And it is only when we really get the green light that it is safe to take on a broader public responsibility from this point of view that this activity can be carried out and that students, employees and, in the case of schools, parents can be at peace and know that this will happen in one of the most secure ways in a given situation, then it is possible. And this assessment by all of us who have this responsibility for decision-making, in the case of music schools, is as I described it. What is also worth pointing out in this case is that we are in contact with all of the key groups mentioned above, the representatives of the Union of Slovenian Music Schools. By the way, I received a kind letter of thanks from their side as soon as the ruling that came into force today came into force, for efforts to enable them to make any long-awaited change in this decision and to enable them to also be allowed to study the ballet dance programme and dance trainees from today on. However, as it is said, there is still some way to take care of security in this maximum sense. Why could we do that? Because now this system of weekly tests has run well, because we are currently in the process of training and training workers as these priority groups. In this sense, these are all measures that further help us to slowly return to some normal flow, although the virus is still very much present at this time. Also because somehow this culture has changed significantly in the school space, because we all understand why masks need to be worn, that they are in some way one ticket that can provide one safe education in public spaces. Somehow as a single explanation, I believe, above all, that we have come with one understanding, cooperation, and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Your time's up. Mr Siter has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u226	Thank you. Because I'm calling one – but. Although teachers, as you said in the introduction, have adopted the long-distance work well, the impression does not go to them, but they have also been calling for it not to be so and to at least as private schools. No, nothing out of the ordinary was requested or called for anything. And here my main criticism of the work of this government in general, and in addition to unnecessary repressive measures of universal privatisation of everything, is in particular this failure to respect the profession. Throughout the months or almost a year of the epidemic, teachers themselves called for solutions and explained the situation. The most painful is when it comes to the weakest, such as the elderly in the home or the children in the educational system, then the government does not consider the profession, which is the trend that I see at all levels. This is not just a criticism of you, but I can extend it to the entire ministerial line. Some measures that are not considered are causing more harm than benefits, especially when we are talking about the weakest children in the education system. The music school is not a leisure activity, as I have already said, is something that is involved in some serious continuous educational process that starts in the preschool, which, by the way, is still closed, and up to a potential academic or pedagogical music career if you want. And this year, despite the fact that we have 64 music schools, 2 000 employees, 25,000 schoolgirls and schoolchildren in the Slovenian public music system, we have witnessed the decommissioning of this system completely unnecessary in the last year. Only because this communication between the department and the ministry did not run out in time and as it should. And that's why the departments are falling apart, the admissions are shrinking, and as a result, they are questioned about the employment of educators and educators. And these are the serious long-term effects of the epidemic. No one's picking up an epidemic, but the way it's addressed by taking into account or disregarding the profession is a matter of political decision. And they've already warned the educators about all of this. Dear Vice-President, the key question remains why the Government allows private clubs to operate by means of measures that generate profits in children's leisure activities and prevents the work of public music schools whose aim is to educate us as a society with music and dance. The question whether the Government wants to dismantle public education also in the work of music schools, which are addressed or opened by teachers, is therefore in place, and I call on the National Assembly to hold a debate in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The National Assembly will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Mr Sonibo Knezak will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. Andrej Shirtzl and the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boštjan Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u228	Thank you, Madam President. I have addressed questions to both ministers because it seems to me that the subject concerns the work of their ministries. Honourable Minister, the proposed law on debarcation in the public raises quite a bit of dust. The law, drafted by the so-called Strategic Council for Debarcation, is expected to be opposed even by the Government's Law Service, and the law was recently adopted by the government at its 65th regular meeting. The Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia wrote about the proposed law, which has been circulated in the public, that debirocratisation is used as a pretext to end solidarity. The proposal for a law on debarcation also contains an intervention in the Social Security Contributions Act, which eliminates the collection of social security contributions when they exceed EUR 6 000. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What is the way in which inter-sectoral coordination, social dialogue and public treatment have been carried out or have been carried out with regard to the proposal for a law on demobilization? What are the consequences for public finances for the proposed law on demobilization? What does the introduction of a social cap have to do with debirocracy?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u229	Thank you very much for your question. Who wants the first word? Mr. Kortnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Member, thank you for the question. As you yourself have already found, I am not the only right address, because in the case of a law on debarcation, it is a slightly different law, as usual, because as a separate law interferes with several regulations, and these are under the jurisdiction of different departments. Therefore, as representatives of the Government, who will participate in the work of the National Assembly at the time of the examination of the law, we are listed as ministers of various departments. However, it is an extremely important law that will suddenly interfere with a series of administrative obstacles that make life difficult for our citizens. That is why the procedure for drafting this law has been somewhat different. Coordination between departments was significantly more intense as the umbrella law removes bureaucratic barriers in a number of different areas. Thus, at least in the field of the Ministry of Public Administration, I can say that it brings substantial simplifications in the field of the business of citizens with the country, since for the first time in history it also brings rules on the delivery of e-mail to citizens. Here I would like to point out that it is volunteerism, which I often miss in the media records, which is based on volunteerism; and this is the majority of the concerns that have been raised in public about this solution. This means that the citizen who wants to do so will stress – I would like – when submitting the application to write that the decision or decision should be served by e-mail; and the state will have to stick to it. However, it is certainly an important step in the operations of citizens with the country, as well as an important step in further developing the digitisation of public administrations. Of course, the government wants such an important law, which will have such an important impact on the everyday life of citizens in relation to the country and on the business environment in Slovenia, to enter into force as soon as possible, and therefore, after very intensive coordination involving almost all the departments, it has determined the text of the law and forwarded it to the legislative process. Of course, the government remains committed to social dialogue and coordination with the social partners. And even before the adoption of the law at the government meeting, a meeting of the Economic and Social Council was convened, which will be held on 24 March at 9 a.m., with only one item on the agenda, i.e. the consideration of this law. We expect a debate, an exchange of views, but I am sure that in the end all the social partners will agree that the law brings a number of good solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you so much for asking. Consequences for public finances. At the first moment, we are counting on the law, taking into account the smaller inflow into pension and health allowance and the greater inflow into the income budget, from corporate income taxes, because this solution will have an impact, and the small inflow of value added tax, to estimate that it is expected to have a negative impact of 70 million. In time, however, I am counting on the fact that when more favourable conditions for the employment of highly qualified people are brought about by people with higher added value, this negative impact will be eliminated and, of course, only a competitive environment will ensure that companies focus on activities with higher added value. This will also compensate cash registers to compensate for this initial mannequin. Certainly many analyses show, from the OECD onward, that we have those jobs that are the most productive, which bring the highest added value and which are also the most paid, very high tax or pay high taxes. These contributions are not taxes in the direct sense of the word, but they are taxes. And that is also why many people leave this country, especially young people go elsewhere. One of the reasons is definitely this one. Of course, there is a question of solidarity. But the question of solidarity is, where does this solidarity go, it is said whether it is purely absolute solidarity or not in this system. I would also like to mention that we already know such a system in the calculation of contributions from [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u234	Thank you, Madam President. One of these measures, which raised the most dust, is the introduction of a so-called social cap. Although the unions claim that the title of this capitalist dog would be more appropriate. This measure limits the gross increase in social security contributions of €6,000. It is said that those who pay 7 000 euros would pay the same contributions as those who would have 10,000 euros or more gross. The Minister also based this on preventing experts and engineers from fleeing abroad, and opponents of this claim reject this argument by arguing that this social cap with such a high limit would not actually burden engineering personnel, but, in particular, managers. The social security unions strongly oppose the introduction of a social cap because it would reduce income in cash insurance and also have an impact on public finances. A lot of criticism was also heard about the way this law was prepared. In the umbrella network of NGOs, it is recalled that the law on demobilization was written without public debate and consultation with experts. They believe that the laws are now apparently written no longer in the competent ministries, but in the Cabinet of the President of the Government. For the purpose of introducing this law, let me remind you, you have also amended the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has changed or increased the range of qualified applicants of the material. With this bill, the government introduces samples of intervention legislation from the epidemic into legislation that has no connection with emergency situations, as this is also one of the warnings of trade unions. Dear Minister, I ask you: What will you do to ensure that such legislation will not be adopted in the future without public debate and consideration in the Economic and Social Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Kortnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u236	Thank you. As it is said, with regard to communication or coordination with the Economic and Social Council; it is in the interest of the Government that this law enters into force as soon as possible, as it brings useful changes to the everyday lives of citizens and the business environment. The debate on the Economic and Social Council will be held on Wednesday at 9 a.m. and I believe we will also find an appropriate mode of operation to move forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The honourable Member has already stated in the previous question that the Office of the Government for Law also opposed this. That's not true. At the meeting where this law was adopted, the Office of the Government of Law did not object, and I must also deny that. I also associate this with how many public debates there have been. I think that the public debate has been held in the last six, even nine months, on the measures taken by the Debarcation Council. I think he's a magician. Ivan Simič also presented these measures to all parliamentary groups. I think a broad public debate has been held, and this has been reported for a very long time. This area was presented to all interested parties. I think that Mr Simič has also done a great deal here to somehow inform people what this Council has concluded for de-de-irocracy. I find it difficult to agree that this debate has not actually been debated. I think that some solutions have also been drawn from these discussions in relation to certain solutions as to how they are being prepared. In this regard, it is difficult to say that the public is not familiar or that the various public are not familiar with all the solutions. These measures proposed by the Debarcation Council have then only changed into a legal text, not all of them. Some of them haven't yet. Some of them are still coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sonibo Knezak has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u240	Thank you. Otherwise, I will not argue, you have every view of social dialogue in this society. I am personally a great advocate of social dialogue and, as such, I firmly believe that inclusion, communication, listening and not least hearing in this country must also foster mutual respect and, as such, one of the foundations of a successful, patient and solidarity society. But it is true that I realize that this kind of journey is not always the easiest or not the fastest; but I firmly believe that in the long term it is the only right way for a society of tolerance and solidarity. My assessment is that social dialogue on this government's priority scale is also not very high. I have warned here on my own many occasions, and even half a month after the government's meeting, you have not yet convened any meetings of the Economic and Social Council, and there are also some discussions on this body that indicate that you are coming to talk, but you are not ready to hear us or listen to us. In short, it's a one-sided monologue. If I go in line with what I said, I hope that – a little bit of a joke, a little bit – the government will not debirocratise this social dialogue, because it goes essentially, if I simplify, also for some administrative obstacle that needs to be removed because it causes costs, delays and ultimately causes stress to the government and also to employers. I hope that this will not be the case, so also, Madam President, I propose that we also hold a debate on this subject in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now he's gonna be a magician. Andrej Reich asked the Minister for Environment and Space mags. Mr Andrej Visiak and Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u242	Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! Last week, the government published a document The National Strategy for the Eradication of Coal and the Restructuring of Coal Regions, in accordance with the principles of a fair transition. There is no secret that this strategy relates primarily to the region of the Silesian region. As the transition to a green economy and a carbon-free society is among Slovenia's top priorities and the whole of the European Union, this is unfortunately also linked to shutting down and closing down many of these burdensome activities. And the consequences of the closure of Velenje Coal are related to a number of issues – social security and the future of people, the rehabilitation of degraded areas and the restructuring of the region, energy self-sustainment and security of Slovenia and the economic consequences. Of course, we have little experience in Slovenia with such strategies. Let's just remember the closing of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. If I am not mistaken, the Act on Closure was passed throughout 2004. Large funds were used, but in fact, counter-closure was done in the local environment, even studies on the opening of the new Brnica mine were carried out for almost a decade. That's how the miners got into a lot of trouble at the time. Let us recall their last sentence in 2014, which was resolved by the then President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, who went to the miners and saved their misery. Something similar is now being announced, not in that sense, but the closure of the mine is now being announced for the Valley of Shale. And that fact puts a lot of workers in very great difficulty. As we know that the actual mine closure strategy could start in 2010, as all data on the exit of Europe from carbon society has been known for at least 20 years, we do not want the same pressures as miners in Trbovje and Hrastnik to be repeated in Velenje. That's why I'm asking both ministers: What measures will the Government take to ensure social security and the future of people? What will it do to rehabilitate degraded areas and restructure the region? How will it ensure the energy self-sustainment and security of Slovenia? What will be the economic consequences? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u243	Thank you very much. First, Minister Vrtovec wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u244	Thank you so much for asking. My ministry is 15. 3. Thus, last week, a strategy on the exit from coal was put into public consultation, which simply assumes that Slovenia will stop using lignite for electricity production no later than 2033. Only by stopping the use of coal for the production of electricity in Teš will the active mine mine stop and begin the closure of the Velenje Coal Mine itself. The year 2033, ladies and gentlemen, is also completely realistic. It allows sufficient time for the HSE group to make all adjustments and also to decide on the continued use of the energy location and the closure preparations themselves. If Poland is, I am talking about Poland, which is still completely dependent today, very highly dependent on coal, if Poland has committed itself to closing most of its thermal power plants and also mines, ladies and gentlemen, it can also do so in Slovenia. Only that Poland doesn't have lignite in the mines, they don't dig it, but they have it much easier on the surface. In determining whether or then after the decision, these years were taken into account by the Interdepartmental Working Group of the six ministries. This was not just our ministry's decision, but more ministries. However, the most important element is the environmental report, the financial stability of the HSE Group due to the high price of emission vouchers, then the international comparative aspect, as only a handful of EU Member States plan to use coal after 2030, as well as the possibility of drawing on EU funds for economic restructuring. Reliable supply of electricity should be considered in a comprehensive manner, taking into account all the obligations of the country arising from emission reductions, improving energy efficiency and also achieving the objectives of the EES. The only mechanism within which we can make the NEP document adopted in this mandate of the National Assembly under the European Regulation will also be renewed in the years 2023-2024. Since electricity production is subject to the market rule, the energy site initiative therefore remains in the hands of HSE.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u246	Thank you for this opportunity. According to the published material of the Ministry of Infrastructure regarding the latest phase-out of coal use in 2034, of course, I – and any environmental minister – would be glad that this is the most ambitious scenario. In doing so, I would just like to point out some important factors that the government must take into account in such decisions, and probably also the Parliament. Some of this has already been counted by my colleague Minister Vrtovec, and I would also point out the reliable supply of electricity to Slovenia and the self-sufficiency of Slovenia in the supply of electricity. These are also the objectives we have set out in the long-term carbon strategy. The reliable supply of Slovenian consumers and the Slovenian electricity economy must not be reduced at the expense of decarbonisation. However, I would add to this the social aspect that you have highlighted. All of this is an extremely important matter. When the government weighs these decisions on such an ambitious green transition or the abandonment of coal use, it must, at the very least, have the answers to all these questions that it does not have today, I must say what you have highlighted. This is said, in particular, to be a social aspect, especially reliable care. Today they no longer know in any factory, except in public administration, how to calculate the salaries of employees without the use of electricity, modern technology, communication technology. The Fourth Industrial Revolution, all of which is based on electricity, electromobility; and therefore reliability is also very important. It is a comprehensive, complex issue, where there will be just a few words before the final decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Reich, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Both well-respected ministers, thank you for your answers. However, I would like to refer to the provision of alternative resources. Somehow you've pointed out that coal mining will be relieved. Does this mean that the Chestnut power plant will import coal from abroad? Where will we replace the source if we leave the Heat Plant? Are we going to build nuclear power plant 2? How is urban power plants and decentralised production? We know that an appropriate regulation has already been adopted, allowing decentralised production to somehow follow the principle of society, this has been done by your predecessor. I'm also interested in: What impact will this have on the operation of this HSE group? We know that the operation of the Termoelectrica Šostanj is also bound by the guarantee law and a number of credit contracts. We also know that this depends on the whole of Slovenian energy, that this Slovenian energy somehow operates according to the system of transfer prices, so production, which is cheaper, subsidises that which is more expensive. In particular, this means, for example, that production from the Drava chain subsidises more expensive production at the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant, so that, in essence, these measures depend on jobs in two regions, namely along the Drava Valley and in the Shaleska Valley. I was wondering if there's anything else you can tell me about job conservation. What are the miners going to do? This is not an easy decision, so this decision needs to be taken as soon as possible in order to be ready for all challenges. And as we have already shown in 2014 how the Trbovlje-Bradnik Mine case solves problems, helps and help miners, we will not let them down this time in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Wrotec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u250	Very briefly. One and a half minutes. Now about restructuring the region, that's easy. We have to go into this, we're forced to do this. And the Shale region will have to restructure. This is not only my problem, but also the problem of social and economics, including the environment; and this is what Minister Visjak mentioned earlier. When we give a very ambitious anniversary, why are we ambitious? Because we need to be ambitious because today Taš 6 60 million Euros of loss, electricity prices are the same as they are, and we are essentially one of the last countries in the European Union where we still have the anniversary in 2030, but fine. There's only one element about other things. Where to replace it was also a question. I'm in favour of replacing the manca with nuclear energy. And I hope that the National Assembly, and before that, the Government will be faced with this element as soon as possible, to discuss this as soon as possible in the National Assembly, will, of course, also, as is the case, since we have virtually no other choice. Nuclear energy should be one of those that is clean because it is actually the purest with the other sources available. In addition to wind, sun and hydropower, we also have a second block of nuclear power. And I'm up for it. Here, however, I ask Mr Visionak to add something, because they are also preparing a climate plan in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u252	The long-term strategy of the decarbonised Slovenia or how to become net carbon neutral until 2050 has virtually ceased public treatment. This moment is in government procedure and is expected to be adopted by the Government within less than a month, which means that it is then Roma to Parliament. The essence of this strategy is exactly what we have both highlighted, both a Member with a question and I with a preliminary answer. This is that Slovenia must be self-sufficient with regard to electricity supply. We need to take into account that by 2050 electricity consumption will double by about 50% due to electromobility. So we see solutions in certain new technologies, including the nuclear option below, as well as in smaller production units at regional and municipal level. Self-sufficiency and reliable care are also important objectives of these strategies.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Andrei Reich, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Although we are all somehow aware of all these challenges ahead of us, and somehow in one part we certainly agree, I propose that we hold a broader debate in the National Assembly, especially because social security and the future of workers are very important for us in the SAB. As we showed them in 2014 how to solve the problems of miners in Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, we promise not to leave any miners in the Shaleska region alone and without work. Many times, the miners have been led astray by politics. In the SAB, we will be your first defenders of your rights. Another important issue is whether coal will be imported from elsewhere after the coal mines in the Shaleska Valley have been shut down. We didn't get that answer. This is important because it then raises other issues and other economic consequences linked to it. Let us recall only the state guarantee for the construction of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant, which is guaranteed by the State. We know the show coupons are on the move as well. We simply want that the story we witnessed in Zasavje until the government has taken over Alenka Bratušek, who solved the situation, will not be repeated in the Shaleska Valley. We want the future and the development of the miners; and this for the whole of the Silesian region. And it's not in a way that those people would be fooled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now, Mrs Mojca Škrinjar will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister Janez Ciegler King! In 2018 a professionally unacceptable manual on the Guidelines for the Sexually Sensitive Use of Language was developed, which is published on the website of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I quote for example: “To express the inclusion of all social sexes, sub-points are in place. After the underline, only the changed part of the word is given, as is the case with the dresser and the tying. For example: "We thank our colleagues and colleagues very much.""" There is no sub-paragraph in the Slovenian spelling which prescribes the use of the Slovenian book language and is therefore unacceptable in the manual. Other reasons for rejecting the underline are that it does not take into account the Slovenian compliance which foresees the matching of a standalone with an adjective and a verb, and the result of such writing is unreadable and unclear texts, which is unacceptable for the official language. The use of the emphasis on expression of sexual non-binarity is limited to the institutions of LGBTIQ, from which it is extended to institutions and political parties, which are introduced from a position of power. This has happened under a former government that is no longer in existence, so I believe you will also replace the contentious text. Looking forward to supporting the Slovenian book language, part of which is also Slovenian spelling without underlining the expression of sexual non-binarism, I ask you: Will you initiate a procedure to amend these Guidelines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Mrs Škrynjar, for this question. First of all, I explain that the Guidelines for the Sexually Sensitive Use of Language were developed in 2018 within the framework of an informal working group composed of representatives and representatives of the Sector for Equal Opportunities within the Ministry, which I run; and in addition, representatives of the Slovenian Translation Department of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Translation and individuals and individuals from the Slovenian linguistic and translation profession. This is a document in which existing language means and principles can be used in one place if we want to use a language that is sexually sensitive and respects the principle of gender equality instead of the so-called generic or non-voluntary male. It is therefore a review of the linguistic uses, which are more or less present in speech and in writing, and it is important to stress what is stated in the introduction to the Guidelines: "The findings and recommendations with the basic guidelines outlined in the following guidelines do not command anything." It is also pointed out that “the linguistic use of some of the solutions will be abandoned and that new receptions will appear spontaneously or intentionally in the language”. The men's and women's subtitles are listed in these guidelines as an innovative and inclusive record, which is established to express the inclusion of all social groups. It is listed as one of the cases that should be used frequently in practice and, as the Member State notes, is mostly used by LGBTIQ groups or institutions. I agree that such writing is not the best way to write official texts. The guidelines recommend that the official texts be written in both language forms or in cases where such a reference would be too burdensome for the text, at the first mention in the brackets or footnote, it is indicated that the following form is applicable to men and women, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs. Boxer, raise your hand if you want a request.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u260	No, no. Thank you very much. I got the perfect answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Then let's move on. Mr Igor Peček will ask the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anžet Logar, who is a percentage, and to the Minister for Environment and Space Mags. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! In the draft priorities, we have already highlighted the Western Balkans as one of the priority areas of foreign policy and integration with countries outside the European Union at the time of the government. Also, Slovenia has always sought to help the Western Balkans in the European Union's approximation process, and we have also committed a high share of development aid to the Western Balkan countries. Even during the Slovenian Presidency, the Council of the European Union will be one of the priorities of the Western Balkans. However, environmental assistance will also be among the development aid priorities. In October 2020, the European Commission presented an economic and investment plan for the Western Balkans, aimed primarily at investing in the green and digital transition. These will help create jobs and sustainable growth. Part of the plan is also the introduction of the Western Balkans Green Agenda, which will provide support to the Member States of the European Union and thus in some way oblige Slovenia to deal with the issue of pollution in the context of sustainable growth. A special significance will be given to carbonation, clean energy, a cleaner environment and digital transformation. In the last year, Slovenia recorded an increase in exports of waste by up to 50% and almost 70% of export declarations to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. In particular, it is the export of plastic-related waste, paper, scrap metal and non-metals. In my opinion, the behaviour of the Republic of Slovenia does not represent a very good look and it seems as if it does not comply with the newly adopted and mentioned Green Agenda for the Western Balkans. That is why I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General, in this regard: What is the reason for such an increase in waste exports? What will Slovenia do in the coming years to promote greening and sustainable growth in the Western Balkans? During the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia is any specific projects in the field of environmental protection in the Western Balkans also envisaged? I know that you cannot answer all the questions yourself, so I will ask Mr Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, in writing. Thank you very much for your answers, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u263	Thank you very much for the question, Member. Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u264	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. In contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have also received their answer and will read it to you, so that we will answer your question in full. At the Berlin Process virtual summit last November, the leaders of the Western Balkans countries adopted a declaration on a common regional market that will allow for deeper regional economic integration with a view to bringing the region closer to the European Union Single Market; and a Green Agenda for the Western Balkans declaration aimed at unlocking the economic potential of the green, low-carbon and circular economy and addressing the major driving forces of climate change. It contains a clear regional commitment to the fifth pillar. The first pillar – climate, energy, mobility. The second is the circular economy. Third, pollution reduction. Fourth – sustainable agriculture and food production. And fifth – biodiversity. In this context, processes of decarbonisation and sustainable infrastructure connectivity will be included.In this context, processes of decarbonisation and sustainable infrastructure connectivity will be included. In the process of decarbonisation, one of the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia will be to agree on a transition or transitional period in the implementation of the CO2 emission assessment. This is one of the key issues if the Western Balkans wants to reduce the development gap with the European Union. One of the priorities could also be the promotion of options and concrete solutions for reducing carbon footprint in the field of wear. In the case of sustainable infrastructure connectivity, the priorities could be the following: the InterCity rail link between all Balkan major cities, Corridor 10 and the Alpine-West Balkan Corridor, this is the multimodality of this corridor. Then the green concept at the borders between the Western Balkan countries and the Western Balkan countries and the European Union countries, the consolidation of banks on the Sava, this is the Sava Commission, and military mobility. As regards the circular economy, one of the priority areas of the European Union Green Agenda will focus during the Slovenian Presidency on two priorities. The first is the establishment of a hub or centre for the circular economy of South-Eastern Europe based in Slovenia and the preparation of an action plan to accelerate the implementation of the principles of the circular economy in the Western Balkans. The Green Agenda will be an excellent basis for strengthening further cooperation in promoting the development of sustainable tourism in the region and the transfer of good practices by the European Union to this area. The European Union's participation in sustainable tourism in the region is already being implemented through EU macro-regional strategies projects involving Western Balkan countries, namely the Danube and Adriatic-Ionian macro-regions. Let me also mention that, through the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have already contributed to the implementation of the public education project in Serbia, in Zabljak, Montenegro, and that we are well involved in this particular area. With regard to your specific issue in terms of waste exports and the like, I must make it clear that Slovenia, in my mandate, has set itself up to be self-sufficient as far as waste is concerned, which means that we will not import or export it. That is why we have also proposed appropriate concrete projects within the framework of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is being developed, in order to deal more effectively with waste in the Republic of Slovenia. This means that there will be as little waste as possible in the grave; and if these wastes are to be reused or recycled.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Peček, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, otherwise you've given me such a nice answer as to what we're all working on. I'm the one who asked you most of all: What is the reason for the increased export of waste? However, when you mention that we will no longer export or become self-sufficient in future waste, I would like to know if you can answer: When do you expect this to happen, at least frameworkally? I know that sometimes it is very ungrateful and difficult to predict, because it is also up to us, it is from the whole society, not just the Ministry. But I'd like to point out one more thing quickly. In February this year, a new trade strategy was presented, which is partly related to the answers that you have given me. And this plans a high level of respect for environmental and social standards both within the European Union, which will probably also mean respect for these standards when dealing with countries outside, is said with third countries. Mr Minister Restorationšek has already highlighted this as one of the priorities. At that time, he said that we would support a strong climate change plan and a sustainable development plan. Of course, I absolutely support this, as I support the transition to the circular economy. I also assume that Slovenia, within the framework of the EU summit, is planning to highlight a number of different themes related to compliance with environmental standards. If you could just tell me: What are the priorities? However, I certainly expect the answer to that first question, for which, of course, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u268	Thank you very much for this question and also the opportunity to explain. In recent days, we have just finalised a concrete proposal to draw on the Recovery and Resistance Plan or through the English RRF. This is a relatively ambitious plan for the overall waste management reform. The aim of this reform is both in the normative field, that is to say in the regulatory area, as well as in the implementation of certain investments, to ensure that waste will be treated more responsibly in the Republic of Slovenia, which means that various measures have reduced the production of waste at all, and then, secondly, how to make waste useful again, that is to say, products. It already exists. Already with the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act and regulations, we have made it possible to apply the so-called Slovenian technical standards and on the basis of the environmental permits obtained to process waste into products. This is also a key measure for the circular economy, i.e. how waste can be obtained from products used in construction in particular. The following of this reverse pyramid is of course recycling, that is to say, how to get as many products to the market in forms where there is either no waste or is reused, or if it is intended for recycling. And in the final phase, there will be a disposal or thermal treatment in highly efficient cogenerations that will replace the current carbon cogeneration of heat and electricity. To this end, a number of procedures have already been initiated and a regulation on the award of concessions for thermal treatment of waste has already been made public. I plan to – since the Recovery and Resistance Plan is linked to 2023 plus 3 years – in the next five-year period, you have asked me by hand, implemented a complete strategy and become self-sufficient in this area. As far as waste works are concerned, in particular municipal mud from cleaning plants, where we are also completely dependent, additional investments are planned in drying-houses, which is actually a business case by economic public service providers themselves. At the same time, we are planning to establish some mono-incinerators of this dry municipal mud, of course in accordance with the most modern technologies that prevent any negative impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Jože Lenart will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am likely to be the fifth or sixth to raise this issue today, but somewhat different. In its latest forecasts, Umar forecasted economic growth for 2021 at 4.3% and GDP at 48 billion and a half. This is even slightly more than was achieved in 2019. For such optimistic forecasts, Umar probably covered the debt of a country related to consumption, although it largely lands in deposits of banks. On the other hand, the projected unemployment rate is higher than in 2020, of which 9.2% is likely to be even higher in relation to the latest events; in 2019 it was 7.7%. So what is your exit strategy for the economy to achieve the GDP target of 48.5 billion or exceed 2019? We are already in the second half of March and there is nothing to suggest that the economy is recovering. The covida-19 measures are still in place, the curfew is still in force, and many activities are still closed. In recent weeks, however, we have been surprised by these forecasts by multinationals to close production plants in our country, which raises even more questions about the targets presented. He closed the Italian Safila 14 days ago, last week in Koroška Adient, and we know that there are many other services involved, which will also reduce their business. Although Adient had already announced that production in Slovenj Gradec would end in 2025, this epidemic has accelerated all together. This year the closure begins until the beginning of the following year. Dear Minister, Slovenia has a large share of the economy tied in supply chains to multinationals and to a large extent to the automotive industry. It all shows that the closing trend will continue, as car sales are significantly decreasing, people are travelling less due to movement measures. In Slovenj Gradec there is another strong company connected to the automotive industry, and the worst can happen. Some 400 Korošci work across the border in Mahlej, and there are signs that it will decrease. You probably expected a contraction to occur during the post-infection period, and we also warned you about this in the LMŠ. I want to know: What will you do? What are your measures to prevent this? What, then, is your recovery strategy that will prevent the social hardship of employees who lose their jobs when they close large production facilities and service activities related to these companies? What will you say on your visit to Koroška tomorrow? We hear that you have prepared solutions, as you have already announced to your fellow Prednik today. Please, if you can answer more widely once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u272	Thank you, honourable Mr Jože Lenart, for the question raised. Your Honor, the National Assembly! The outbreak of the covida-19 pandemic in 2020 had a significant impact on global economic activity, and the Slovenian economy was not exempted. The fight against the epidemic has been the main focus of the ministry and government in the last year. Under the eight anti-Korona packages adopted, the government has put in place a number of measures aimed at mitigating the impact of the epidemic on the economy and ensuring the liquidity of the economy and preserving jobs. These are the key objectives we have pursued. The numbers you can monitor today also show that we have been successful in this area. The economic indicators of the Slovenian economy are above expectations and forecasts. GDP decline in 2020 is lower than expected. The fall was smaller than in the second quarter and slightly smaller than expected in the winter forecast of Umar. Over the year, GDP fell by 5.5%, which is also lower than winter forecasts. A year ago, at the time of the outbreak, GDP was projected to fall by around 7%, which was the same as the European Union average GDP forecast. Similarly, 120,000 unemployed were forecast. The actual decline in GDP and unemployment in Slovenia today is below the average of the European Union. The decline in GDP was more than 20% lower than forecast. We also have about 25% less unemployed than the forecast. The current figure is less than 90,000 and no forecast is 120 thousand, but without appropriate anti-korona measures, we would not have succeeded. This is also acknowledged on Friday by the published IMF report, where they find that we addressed our actions in a timely manner. More than 71,000 employees and 8.9% of all employees were included in job conservation measures in December 2020. In December, the basic income was more than 33,000 self-employed or around one third of all, while last spring it was around 45%. How's it going? The objective is to further encourage the economy by means of a recovery and resilience programme, first of all. This is also one of the key priorities identified by experts in the IMF report. The remaining priorities proposed are still to maintain a strongly supportive fiscal policy, we will continue to closely monitor businesses and financial institutions and their exposure, which we have done well so far, we need to enable an effective redirection of human resources between sectors of the economy and to accelerate digital transformation and investment in green technologies to increase productivity and improve competitiveness. Nevertheless, we are aware that companies are facing extraordinary situations and that companies are also affected by some other factors that the country does not have an impact on its actions. Let me finish in this first part. With the measures we have taken in the eight anti-Korona packages, we have done that we have preserved the core of the Slovenian economy. It was an important decision in the first wave that we did not close industrial production, as some countries have done, especially the Italians in the West. The economy owes us that there was no real or serious infection in the economy in this area. The most affected part of the Slovenian economy is the service sector, within the service sector tourism. We have addressed all these activities with common, general measures, of which we would most point out the instrument of waiting for work, then partly covering fixed costs. Of course, for the sectors most affected, we need to prepare additional measures if we are to get things back on track. Here we can also talk about the measures that we need to take, for individual problems, I would not say multinationals, international companies that for various reasons have decided to order the closure of production. This forecast has not yet been realised.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Comrade Lenart, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u274	Thank you. My question was more about this optimistic forecast for this year, which we find to be unrealistic. Why? The Slovenian economy is all too tied to supply components for multinationals and so very vulnerable in times of crisis, which we have also now experienced. The multinationals declare that they are withdrawing from Slovenia because we are becoming too expensive. Too expensive. What must we remain poor to be interesting to multinationals from rich countries?Oh, my God! That's the key we're looking for. Is not our goal of GDP per capita growth to reach at least the average of the European Union countries in the coming years and reduce the backlog for the more developed? Where is this strategy of higher added value that will lead us to this goal? Where is the strategy to get on our feet? In eight packages, we shared a lot of single aid and less in the economy. Almost a year will come from my questions why in the eight years of the forest and forest chain action plan we have not been successful in relaunching wood processing activities in order to recycle wood raw materials, which is Slovenian natural resources, in order to return at least half of the 20,000 jobs lost. Why have we not managed to build at least one timber centre of four planned, where development and investment in woodworking could take place? We should be in Koroška, too. We cut down two-thirds of the forest floor allowed, and then we sell it in large quantities, and then we sell it across the border. Of course, we had an agreement that woodworking would be a more optimistic solution in a short time; and I hope it is already on your table. I may imagine too simple – to adopt a decree, law, directive in Slovenia 20, 30% build in wood to build a permanent, green, which dictates the commitments of the common strategy. And once again, distinguished minister, successful solutions tomorrow with the leadership of Adient and the mayor of Slovenj Gradec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u276	Thank you for that supplementary question. First, multinationals do not leave the Slovenian space, but they have problems of both multinationals and the Slovenian economy with too expensive labour in higher pay grade. And here is the fact that we have been working for years to become more competitive in this area as well. It is that we have competitive conditions for lower salaries, and here I do not see the possibility of the development of Slovenia. However, I think it is necessary to address the issue of more degressive taxation of higher wages – either by way of taxation or through the cap that is the subject of this new law. This is a key issue to move from the commercialisation of muscles to the commercialisation of the brain. And multinationals move these jobs from Slovenia, and this is where an in-depth debate is to be held. I know there will be a lot of discussion on this subject, but we cannot take a decision to compete in this area without discussing it and taking a decision. Why am I optimistic? I am optimistic because the core of Slovenian industrial production, even if it is supply-side, has survived this crisis well because the orders do not fall because, as an economy, we have somehow implemented adjustment measures through this enterprise sector; and because of our scale, we reacted faster. In order to recover and restart the economy through this postcovid crisis, I can say that at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology this year we are earmarking for 659 million 42 different calls from different areas. I believe that they will address the real problems to the greatest extent possible and will allow the economy to be reinvigorated to the fullest extent possible. Here I say that the service sector must also be launched if we are to achieve adequate growth in gross social product. We are addressing another problem, the problem of liquidity provision. And I think that for industrial production too, data are good, above expectations. The total value of industrial production was 1.3% higher in January 2021 and 1.6% higher in December. This is more than in the euro area because growth was only 0.1%. In particular, production in highly technologically demanding activities and in medium-term low-tech demanding activities increased. In both cases, growth was above 5%. In view of the above, I believe that we remain a competitive business environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Good. Thank you. Mag. Bojana Mursic will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boštjan Koritnik a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleague, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The public sector's pay system needs changes. Many agree, but you have been preparing or working on a change in your salary system for a long time in your ministry. Not only you, the distinguished minister with the team, but your predecessors have done that. Therefore, it is high time you came to know what changes are being made. It is of particular importance that these changes take place as soon as possible, as the minimum wage raises very generalised the lower part of the scale, where the salary per employee with secondary education and one who has completed primary school are equal to the minimum wage of 1024.24 euros from 1 January 2021. In my opinion, the salary scale should start right at the 22nd grade, because it is unacceptable that someone who does 174 hours of monthly work would not receive a minimum wage. I have already asked you a question from the Parliament on 18 February 2021, which specifically referred to the unification of the classification of higher education librarians in the pay system. At that time, you replied to me that the starting points for the reconstruction of the public sector's salary system are aimed at the abolition of the single wage system and the establishment of only the common foundations of the public sector's salary system. You also indicated in your reply that the unions will be presented on 15 February and that further coordination takes place on 1 March 2021. And according to publicly available data, it is possible to detect that the prepared baselines do not meet the needs that we have seen since the introduction of the single pay system and do not address the shortcomings. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, How are the negotiations with the negotiating group of representative public sector trade unions taking place? Will anomalies be eliminated as regards comparable jobs and wage grade classification? For now, I thank you in advance for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u280	Thank you very much, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 10 February this year, the government established a starting point for the renovation of the public sector's salary system. This represents the first step towards the realization of the commitment under the coalition contract on the renovation of the public sector's salary system and more variable remuneration of public servants. The starting points, as you yourself mentioned, were presented to all representative public sector unions at the negotiating group's meeting five days later, on 15 February. MJU also sent draft articles of the new law on the common foundations of the public sector's salary system for the purpose of coordinating with the unions, as it follows from the Rules of Procedure on the conduct of trade negotiations with trade unions that the proposals of the laws are also coordinated according to the specific text of the articles and not only by individual institutes of the law. This law follows the government's already adopted starting points for the reform of the payroll system. While the government has not yet taken a decision on the draft text of the articles of the law, it is expected that this will be adopted in a short time, and coordination with the unions has not yet been possible. As soon as the draft text of the articles is confirmed in the Government, of course we will approach coordination with the unions, we will also be in contact with them all the time. While these, as you yourself have mentioned, have responded negatively to the presented starting points for the reconstruction of the pay system, they have been explained that it is only the starting points that do not imply the final decision of the government on what law it will mediate in the legislative process. At the same time, at the adoption of the starting points, the Government also adopted a decision to inform the Government of the degree of harmonisation of the texts of the articles of the law. Notwithstanding the result of coordination with the unions, in any event, if the proposal for a law is to be forwarded to the National Assembly, a declaration on the degree of harmonisation of the texts of the articles of the union law should also be attached to the law. That deadline you mentioned was, in fact, April 1st is by no means final. Clearly, changed circumstances also require changed deadlines. With regard to your second question, regarding the elimination of the abnormality of comparable jobs and the classification in the pay grade. The general answer is that the salary system is being reformed, not the abolition of job and title anomalies. In other words, the government's adopted starting points refer to the system's anomalies or shortcomings as a whole, not job evaluation. As you are aware, job evaluation anomalys were the subject of negotiations with trade unions in 2016 and 2017, when the annexes to collective agreements of activities and occupations were also concluded. These collective agreements, however, have raised the value of jobs and titles in the public sector accordingly. In addition, further wage increases took place in 2018 by concluding agreements on the resolution of the strike requirements of public sector unions. At that time, there was a financial impact, if I am not mistaken, of a good EUR 300 million. In this regard, it was then explicitly stated in the agreement with the trade unions that there is no obligation to eliminate anomalies in the evaluation of jobs and titles in the public sector. Of course, this does not mean that we will not find and detect any of what was disputed at the time, but then somehow cohesive, that it is no longer problematic, will not require new interventions and corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs Muršič, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I must say that it is right, I absolutely welcome the dialogue with representatives of public servants who will prepare and detect all these anomalies. It is great that you are talking about the variable part of the pay system, but in the variable part of the pay system it should be noted that this is the subjective decision of the chairman of the body which decides on this part. Here there are many problems both on the part of the chairman, who has to decide on the level of variable work, and on the other hand has employees who disagree with this variable work, which has been determined. This variable part is on very small ground because the head of the department does not want a conflict with his employees. But if it works properly, believe me, it's a problem. If you are familiar with this or have faced it, I think you know what I'm talking about. Since the draft articles are not yet in place, can it be realistic to expect that the public sector's salary system will change by the end of this term or this year? Is it possible that the change would taste like pre-election candy? That's one of the questions. But I also have a question: What is your opinion that someone who has secondary education gets exactly the same salary as someone who has a primary school? Because here we have from the 1st to the 22nd pay grade all in one basket. People have started leaving jobs in the public sector and are going to an economy where these variables or wages are different and are, say, much better rewarded for vocational education than in the public sector. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u284	Thank you. First of all, the fundamental question is whether it's going to happen this year. If the Government approves the draft articles by the end of this month, then coordination with the unions would be completed by the end of May, then I estimate that the payment system could experience changes by the end of this year. However, it is also highly dependent on you, Members and Members, and it can be assumed that information on the degree of harmonisation of the union bill will also affect your decision on the bill itself. Although I am an optimist myself, the pay system is really in need of renovations. This is what both government representatives and employers in the public sector know, according to many responses, also public sector employees and those who represent them, namely representative unions. As you yourself mentioned, the draft text of the articles of the law also includes greater flexibility in determining wages or in general a better link between paying work and the results of work. What you mentioned is very well known to me, but it also comes from a culture that should be clarified or explained at the time of the introduction of these institutions. I think that this is also a small culture of non-alignment of higher positions in the hierarchy of working organisations with the responsibility to do so. The one who says that the one who decides and answers cannot be liked by everyone should also apply here. I would say, however, that, according to my information, this escape from the public sector into the private sector is not happening. If you have any other information, I'd be happy to look into it again, but I don't think that's the case in practice. Either that confirms or denies your claim, I would not hope to predict it or judge it, but it is my opinion that we cannot possibly talk about a pre-election candy because it is an urgent change in the system. Maybe the pre-election candy would be, but forgive me, if this is misunderstood, the pre-election candy would probably be against us depending on the union's response when we started cutting into it. At the same time, we have been listening for ten years or at least five years to hear that the system needs to be changed. Which certainly does not mean that when it was established, it was not quality, good, praised by the OEDC, but already in 2011 we received very clear guidance that we should definitely correct anything else. And in so many years, what you've mentioned has been a bit off at the bottom of the salary scale, but some adjustments have then caused [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's not filming any more. Can we move on? Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I see that the Minister has a lot more to say, so I will take this opportunity to discuss this subject a little bit more at the next meeting. I know it's very difficult in the National Assembly today to talk about the problem of the pay system. However, some of the starting points, as you yourself have said, should essentially explain to public servants the culture, that they are not then offended if they do not get this variable work, for this reason this debate in the National Assembly might be very meaningful, to somehow identify themselves with what they are going to do in the future. When I was on the job, I had only that job performance in a very small amount, and believe me, resentment is still with public servants today. But I did exactly what was right, because I rewarded the one who actually deserved it. But the one who didn't show this job performance in that month didn't get it. And there would be a need for awareness and there might be one step forward so that we can start talking about it if we want to. But anyway, like you said, yeah, and we've been talking about this for 10 years. A single payment system is in place. I believe that it only needs to be upgraded, but not allowed to some groups to get out of the pay system; because when it comes to it, the whole system will collapse. And today these unions - because we have unions on the other side and these are steps - have shown that some are actually for exit, some are not. We need to find a common way — and conversations, conversations. I sincerely hope that somehow it will come and that it will not be pre-election candy. If this year comes to a realization of this, because public servants are really waiting for this to happen, because this system has really turned out to be a good 12 years or more, that really needs to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. A nice hello! Mr. Minister, I have a question for you, as foretold, about the financing of the Slovenian film. After blocking the film, film makers and their finances last year and only on the last day of 2020 did they receive €1.95 million from the budget in the Slovenian Film Centre, so that they can approximately cover some ongoing activities, there is nothing better for filmmakers this year. At the beginning of 2021, the Ministry adopted two decisions, after which the Slovenian Film Centre received only 50% of the funds it was expected to receive this year, 3.5 million of the €6.4 million total. And my first question is: Why did you give them only half the promised money? What is the content of this order to keep the budget, what is the reason for this? At the Slovenian Film Centre, it was very clear that most of this money, according to 2.7 million out of 3.5 million, was used for transfer costs, is said to be projects already under way. Now we are the end of the first quarter, and filmmakers warn that no new call has yet been made, which is a serious problem for them. People got money, in Europe there is, say, the first children's Christmas Slovenian film called Kappa, which received half a million euros abroad, and now has obligations to co-producers, other financiers and so on. However, it is being sabotaged by the Slovenian state because there are no calls for money so that this project can be realized. Well, that's not the only case. All Slovenian filmmakers who want to work this year cannot get to Slovenian money and therefore fall under obligations abroad. It is said that they could have acquired, as in this case, half a million euros that will be lost because of your sabotage, Mr Minister. That's what I'm interested in. The other thing I'm interested in is: Why has the Slovenian Film Centre Council not yet been appointed, and what is the reason for this detention?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u290	Thank you very much. With the complications of last year, the matter is more or less clear or clear. Of course, the film funds were paid to the full. It is not true that no funds were paid throughout the year, that at least 30-40 % of the funds were paid throughout the year, so that the film production did not stop as it was repeatedly explained in the public. It is true, however, that the financing issue has helped, if I say so, to ease the disease itself, which has spread and prevented many people and filmmakers from making films. At the end of the year, this was paid out, and it turned out that he was also pushing for the use of funds, also a real situation that was detected by covida-19, as there were almost EUR 800,000 left unallocated resources. So there was no such force that in fact the film or the film industry would be so affected that it would not be possible to realize and implement the film program. You're saying no calls have been made. I have to say, I don't know if he was this year. However, the call was made last October, and this is a call for proposals for this year. Of course, films can be made if the results of the call are made public and clear as soon as possible. To sabotage the country's film, these are the harsh words, which, of course, belong to a particular environment, difficult words. You're saying all filmmakers can't work. Probably not because there wouldn't be enough funds. As you yourself have found, several million funds have already been earmarked and, of course, film production can run. Otherwise, we have provided quite enough funds this year and the film is fully covered to a large extent. I believe that film production will be able to take place smoothly. In fact, some of the obstacles that it has solved to a certain extent were this anti-Koron 7 package, where we have increased these project classifications through governments to EUR 600,000, which, of course, made it easier to produce this film and to finance at least to a certain extent. I hope the film production will be glass under normal conditions. It is true that the film world has not yet been confirmed; I think it must be within a week or fourteen days. I hope that this will happen as soon as possible and, of course, the film production or industry will take place smoothly this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Member of the Moon, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u292	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister, it is not true that all the funds were paid last year. Eighty-five percent of the funds have been paid or exhausted, and about 729,000 have not been paid; not because the projects would be too small, as you say, but because of the fact that they have been involved in the incorporation of film projects into national development programmes. The second time you block and sabotage a movie, it's not just my judgment. This is the judgment of the good work of about a thousand 400 film performers working and living in Slovenia who waited for your landing from May to the end of the year for the government's landing to pay their current obligations to their projects. People literally took credit for about a year. On the last day of 2020, the PKP7 settled certain obligations towards them. And this year, as I told you, they have problems with their international obligations to the European Commission, where some projects have received funding, to co-producers with whom they are agreed. Why? Since the end of the first quarter, as the Slovenian Directors' Association warns, has not yet issued a film call, nor has a single call for a film. All you have enabled to finance is transfer costs, it is said to be some part of those projects that have been in place since last year; and nothing new. I repeat the question because you haven't answered it: What is the reason why the content of you holding back the financing of the Slovenian film, why have you allocated only half of the proposed budget to the Slovenian Film Fund? Why has the Slovenian Film Center not yet been appointed? As far as I know, it was already kind of confirmed at the Ministry around 8 February, and now it's stuck in the government, where it doesn't even come on the agenda. What's the reason?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u294	Thank you very much. If half of the budget was already provided this year, then they can probably shoot, they probably don't need all the money at this point for all the movies, which is probably impossible. They must, as you said, be included in a specific programme and, of course, they must also follow a certain procedure, because budget rules are such. Of course, transparency rules are laid down for all budgetary users, and in this regard also these payments of film funds. Why was only half the budget carried out? I must say that the second time you ask clearer questions so that you can prepare yourself, because you have announced that you will ask a question regarding the financing of Slovenian film. We have a lot of Slovenian film, not just at the Slovenian Film Centre and things like that. Secondly, I would like to ask that more exact questions are available and probably more satisfying answers will be available to you. Why hasn't the film world been named yet? The film world will be named, run by procedure, as it is, and will be named. For a while we had problems when this world had to be named. The Council has eight members, it is named by different societies and, of course, there may be other differences. We'll sort this out and, of course, he'll be able to do it smoothly. But it is true that the world must then approve this work programme. But so far the work has not been compromised. According to last year's call for proposals, the film projects under way are running smoothly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Comrade Moon, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u296	Thank you very much. What we have just seen, Mr. Minister, is another display of cynicism and arrogance that you can literally do. Last time I asked you why you are blocking the financing of Slovenian film, I think it was somewhere in November 2020 – since May people have not received paid obligations from the country, even though the money in the budget in all the items was inappropriate more than any year before – you replied to me that they should go to court. You told them to go to court. Today we hear some sort of scheming. You're saying that movies have to be included in some kind of program. Mr Minister, you are not on this function for the first time and you cannot pretend that you do not know that the Slovenian Film Centre programme is being established by the Slovenian Film Centre Council, which you have not named. Of course there's no program if there's no body to put this program up. Therefore it is your responsibility and your fault. And I know, I can see you guys playing tricks, and the filmmakers can see you watching you now. And now we're gonna be done in a minute and a half, but luckily we'll see you Wednesday, where you'll have 17 hours to answer these questions. This, Mr. Minister, what you can afford is not just sabotage, it is the destruction of Slovenian film and Slovenian film makers. And I don't know how you have a face to answer here in a camera like that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u297	My friend, concentrate on the procedural proposal, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u298	to the question as you answer me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u299	Not verbal attacks and so on. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u300	I suggest that we discuss this at a meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u301	Good. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Vojko Starović will ask the question of the Acting Secretary-General of the Government of Mag. Janji Garvas Hotchevar. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u302	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor, the Acting Secretary-General of the Government! Last Thursday, the government’s extremely questionable decision brought it to an end in public. This proposed the early resolution of Director Bojan Veselinović to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency (STA), which did not provide any documentation to the Government and was intended to bully employees. At this same meeting, the Government proposed to the Ministry of the Interior to verify that the alleged violations also contained elements of reasonable suspicions of crime and whether the members of the Supervisory Board had acted inconsistently with the law. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate should also carry out the Agency's inspection. The government seems to have gotten all the money they needed. In doing so, the impression is that the SDS, as the leading coalition party, wants to replace the current leadership in particular so that the agency can then be led in the form of SDS and replace verifiable and credible information with news of its own propaganda. At the time of the creation of independent Slovenia, it was crucial that we then secure our own and, in particular, an independent information channel for informing citizens. Now, after 30 years of history and creating high-level information, we are simply trying to betray it. Your Honor, I ask you: When is the government going to start respecting institutional independence? When will the government start to respect the law on PKP7, which ensures the smooth financing of STA? And in the end, I have another question. In preparing this issue, I have observed on the Government's website that you are acting as Secretary-General of the Government. I'm asking you: Since when is it possible for officials to perform their duties as duty holders? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Madam Acting Secretary-General of the Government, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u304	Mr Member, first of all, thank you for the question. As you are aware, we are also concerned about the Government's situation with regard to the Slovenian Press Agency, and especially with the way Director Veselinović manages this important institution. It is precisely because of the unsustainability of the situation in which the Agency was located that the Government adopted conclusions last week which, in our opinion, could lead to the operation of the Agency in accordance with the laws and regulations of Slovenia. The basis for the operation of the STA is the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency and the PKP7, which arbitrarily interferes with the business relationship between the STA and the Government's Communications Office as a representative of the founder. Ukom was the holder of a cover contract for the execution of public service under the Slovenian Press Agency Act. The contract provides, inter alia, that the STA must provide Ukom with all the documentation enabling it to review the operation of the agency and the use of tax money. Since last May, it was noted that Director Veselinovic at monthly level is showing around EUR 5 000 more public service costs than has been defined by a contract concluded on 19 December 2019 for 2020. That is why Director Ukoma warned the STA that such a minus at the end of the year represents liquidity problems for the company of around EUR 70 000. The Director of the Slovenian Press Agency called for consolidation of the financial situation of the Agency. Despite Ukom's calls, the situation hasn't changed in any way. Moreover, it was found that the same has been done in recent years and that the financial situation has been resolved by any number of annexes over the year. Thus, the first annex between Ukomo and STA was signed two months after the signing of the roof contract. How can an annex of EUR 50 000 be made within two months of the contract being signed?Oh, my God! And how could Director Veselinovic have prepared such a bad business plan two months earlier or, rather, how could he deceive the government in signing the annual contract?Oh, my God! In view of all the above, he wanted to take a closer look at the financial operations of the STA in October. Notwithstanding the numerous calls made by the Director of STA, he did not wish to provide the documentation with a variety of excuses. As a result, Ukuk had to stop financing. PKP7 has settled its obligations to the State regardless of whether the State fulfils its legal obligations under the law. Nevertheless, the STA has still not provided the required documentation to date and is still clearly violating the provisions of the signed contracts between the Director of STA Veselinovic and former Director of Ukoma. However, it is clear from the communication provided by a member of the Supervisory Board that the Director wishes to obstruct the work of individual members of the Supervisory Board by not allowing them a thorough review of the business documentation. He particularly wants to hide things that are already fundamentally controversial, these are compensation contracts. Respectfully, it is clear to all that the operation of any undertaking must be transparent, that contractual obligations must be respected, especially in the context of the rule of law. In this sense, I doubt that any of these are in favour of non-compliance with the treaties. I am also convinced that no one can support a mobile phone over journalists and editors. More than once, it has already been exposed to how Director Veselinovic calculated with a previous reply to the editor and asked him for daily reports on what he was doing and then sent him out of work to a very sick person. This is an unacceptable act, even more so because it is a company with 100 percent national ownership. If any of you support such actions by the director of a company owned by the State, say so. The government strongly condemns such behaviour and is in favour of the fact that the company cannot lead a director with such an attitude towards employees. Among other things, let me point out another information which has also been publicly presented in these days. Despite the fact that the administrative part of the agency should be separate from the official part, letters were read at the studio at 5 p.m., as Director Veseninović intervened in editorial work, and with this grave violation of his legal limitations. Such letters, whom to cover, whom not, how to cover statements made by individual Members, are already by themselves illegals requiring the removal of the Director.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u305	Thank you very much. My friend, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u306	Thank you, President, for your word. I must immediately say that I cannot be satisfied with the answer. They're formal, they're Piccolo and they're hard to believe. After all, it is an independent agency, an institution that is a leading provider of information for the domestic and foreign public. We could say that it is the heart of the Slovenian media landscape; and in the SAB party, we are strongly protesting any attacks on the media. The government just can't afford it. That's what Rubicon's going to do. It seems that such information as it is does not correspond to that authority. I would like to replace it with my own way of informing about my own needs. Independent media is one of the key components of democratic society and the state. They call them even fourth powers because they control power. Now we see a clear second situation, we're after the police, a work inspection, everything we want. Looks like we really want to have the media in Hungarian, Polish and Serbian models. It is quite catastrophic, however, that the six most visible international organisations for the protection of media freedom in the letter to the European Commission are concerned about what is happening here. Slovenia is a member of the European Union and as such I have access to the common budget and the internal market, but we also have commitments and commitments. When will these violations of all these covenants end? And in the end, I'd like to ask you if it turns out [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The time to ask a question is no longer available. Madam Acting Secretary-General of the Government, you have the floor to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u308	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that, with 31 December 2020, Ukom has expired all contractual obligations to the Slovenian Press Agency. As you are aware, Director Veseninović does not recognise Ukom as a representative of the founder for reasons unknown to us, even though the Government has clearly recognised him as its representative by giving Ukom funds for the STA on the budget line. Nevertheless, Director Veselinović also sent an application for payment of alleged public service under the Slovenian Press Agency Act to Ukom. Of course, the account had to be rejected by Director Ukoma because he would otherwise have acted unlawfully and would have been criminally responsible. First of all, it is not a contract, and second of all, the PKP7 also provides that the STA must carry out a public service. Who now checks this if they do not perform this service as defined in the law? If the Director of Ukoma, without a contract, paid the invoice he received and, in the end, it would turn out that STA does not fulfil the public service obligation, who would answer? Director Ukoma. Whoever is convinced that he is working properly, legally and transparently, I do not think that he has any problems with visiting inspectors and other competent authorities. No matter what, things could have been resolved a long time ago, but apparently Director Veselinovich doesn't want them. And as a hostage, he takes all the employees of the U.S.A., which is unacceptable again. Any director of any company would seek a thousand and one excuse not to submit documentation to the owner; at the same time, he uses a company that is not owned by him for propaganda purposes, if he does not know whether the company will wait 30 years. Almost through the system - I prefer the company to go bankrupt, rather than hand over the paperwork. It is unacceptable for the Director not to hand over the documents and for the hostage he takes away all the employees of the STA. It is also unacceptable that supervisors have not yet acted in accordance with their responsibilities. As for my appointment, I don't think it has anything to do with your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Starović, would you like a word for a procedural proposal? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u310	Yes, I have a procedural proposal. But I'm going to have to answer that this has a connection because it can be its function if it can't act as a doer of duty. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u311	If you have a procedural proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u312	against the law. [[…]] My procedural proposal, however, is that at one of the next meetings of the highest state authority, this is our Parliament, focus on the issue of media independence. This is my procedural proposal because the media and their position are key to democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u313	Thank you very much. We will only decide that your question regarding the Slovenian Press Agency will be included in the next meeting of the National Assembly; not on the media, but only on the STA. This will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u314	Good evening and a nice greeting for me, too. Dear Minister of Infrastructure, welcome and good evening! Many of us have in the past dealt with the revitalisation of the Bohinian track. Even those individuals with all the fervor who have made a remarkable movement in the field of the Bohinj railway within the operational initiative in recent years. Although my question today concerns more than one question, it is not so much related to the Bohinj track, but rather to the connection between the two Goricas. Indeed, it is possible to understand that a direct link between Novo Gorica and Stara Gorica will be established next year after many years, which is certainly to be welcomed in the coming European Capital of Culture, after years of efforts both by us and many in Nova Gorica and Italy Gorica. Surely we are also inspired by the direct link between Ljubljana and Venice, which we have repeatedly taken and wanted to move forward. Dear Minister, I have two very specific questions. I want to know: How is the upgrade of the railway link at the border crossing of Vrtojb or Šempetr taking place? There, a so-called probe was already launched on the Italian side as a pre-preparation for the construction of the so-called connecting arc, which should also be done on the Slovenian side in the near future, so that passenger traffic would not be forced to turn in Nova Gorica and thus cause sound pollution, which would be a very big burden for Nova Gorica as a city. My second question is: How are the preparations for the resolution on the national programme going? We have learned that in the near future, this will rumble in the form of amendments and complement the resolution on the national programme in the National Assembly. Why do I ask that, Minister, but I will explain in the second part of my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u316	Thank you very much for that question. In order to establish passenger traffic on the route Nova Gorica-Vrtojba-Gorica, according to our Stara Gorica, it is therefore envisaged to implement direct inter-secret dependence between Nova Gorica-Gorica railway stations. This will be done by establishing passenger traffic on the same route as Nova Gorica–Vrtojba–Gorica, including the establishment of a technical inter-secret dependence on Nova Gorica–Vrtojba section, Nova Gorica–Shempeter, Šempeter–Vrtojba, Šempeter–Prvačina, an inter-secret dependence system between the railway station Spindle on track 71 and Gorica Centrale in Italy, which is ready to enter into operation. The implementation of the works is foreseen this year, in 2021, and the estimated value of the establishment of inter-secret dependence is almost half a million euros, namely 472 thousand euros. Investment at the train station Vrtojba is necessary for the establishment of passenger transport. The construction of a new side passenger platform is also envisaged, as part of the construction, provision is made for the provision of accessible routes and the corresponding municipal arrangements themselves. Here the estimated value of construction is EUR 235 000, and implementation is also this year. This year we will also complete or start both projects. The investment itself will enable passenger traffic on the route Nova Gorica–Vrtojba and Gorica without any limitation on the employment of the railway station. In this way, the integration of the Slovenian-Italian rail system can be developed and expanded and the action will achieve greater utilisation of public rail infrastructure. The cross-border passenger link, it seems, is also important not least because of Nova Gorica's candidacy for the European Capital of Culture 2025, which we all support. That's it. With regard to the link between Ajdovščina and Postojna, I can answer the following questions. We are already preparing a serious resolution. This resolution is not only given on the table, but will also be here in Parliament, and this resolution speaks in particular of how to bring the railway between the Permanent Republic and the Ajdovščina by 2050 and the next few years very seriously, in any way, because traffic flows indicate that the potential in this connection is definitely there. As a domestic, I can also assess that there is potential in this connection during this period, and the National Assembly will continue to take this seriously. This resolution will take place in the next three weeks in the Government and then also in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. German, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. It must be good news not only for Northern Primorsko but also for Gorenjska, that it will be connected in very short time to the entire Italian railway network. My question, Minister, is, above all, addressed to what you have completed your opening statement. In fact, it is clear from this map and also from the historical facts that during World War I, during the Soviet Front, Austria-Hungarian planned a connection, specifically between Montenegro and Ajdovščina. That's, I'll say, some line I'm hoping for, and I dare say it's our generation's opportunity, especially since we come from the same places. Dear Minister, you said that the resolution was in preparation, and there will also be a presentation in the National Assembly. Since we are talking about sustainable transport, we are talking about guidelines that are particularly guiding the pace of the future. I wish that in the near future we could take ourselves from Nova Gorica past Ajdovščina or to Vrhnika or to Postojna, and therefore this route should also be placed in the resolution. That is why, today in public, we have already talked about this, I also suggest that you put this – so far above all regional – line into the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme 2030. I think this would be a very important gesture not only of our generation, but of the future to lay the foundations of a new track, a link between Ajdovščina or Vrhnika or between Ajdovščina and Postojno. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u320	Thank you very much. 2030 – This is not because we have missed all the procedures in the past, in the last 10 years. Let me say one thing: that this moment, when some of you are reading to me and to the Minister responsible for European cohesion policy, that we have missed everything, that we have not invested anything wisely and so on, let me say that projects in the past have not been prepared. We are currently working on projects and preparing them to come into the stories of putting into space. This railway connection is at this point in time to start with the ideal procedures, to even begin to be an idea. From that idea, all we have to do is put in. So this is not the link Ljubljana–Maribor, which already exists, but we are talking about ideal solutions to speed it up, to make it more economical and so on, but it's a link that doesn't exist and we're at the zero point. The first story is that this Parliament will have this resolution on the table within one month, and this connection will also be in this resolution. The first story is that the Social Democrats, whose important member you, Mr German, are also supporting this resolution. From then on, we'll talk about when we start putting into space. But I want something, and here I say before the entire Parliament. By speeding up the placement procedures in the area of regional railway lines and also important ten-t tracks, i.e. new lines or ten-t lines. What's this all about? Because we have this moment to tell you the intended placement in the Ljubljana-Kranj regional railway area for 12 years. Ljubljana–Kamnik is 7 years old. So, when are we gonna build this? I don't know, 20 years from now. That's right. Time's running out. So the key element is not that we don't have the money, so we don't have the ideas, the vision. I have a vision. I have an idea. I believe we can get the money, but we need to simplify procedures. It is also my job to simplify our procedures when we have ideas, so that from Postojna to Nova Gorica, or first to Ajdovščina, we can get to Ajdovščina by train faster, or finally we can only get to the track. This Parliament can also discuss and I will be very pleased to discuss this. Why? Because I wish that this resolution, which we will have within a month in this House, I think that within 14 days it is in the government, that within a month the opposition will also vote positively, but not after this inertia: the opposition, say no, we will not support it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, the time is up. Mr. German, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u322	My procedural proposal is to hold a debate. Allow me, President, otherwise I agree, I have understood some controversy about this; I am always here when we support good proposals, as my client does, so I believe we have the same goals, the same goals. My expectations were not that the strategy would already include the track itself, but, above all, that it would be presented as a potential route that we would be able to place in the coming periods, whether it would be one government or another government, but rather to lay some foundations. President, thank you so much for your word. So I am procedurally proposing that we vote tomorrow on this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u324	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Today, March 22nd, we mark World Water Day. How this government and you, as Minister, Mr Vizjak, appreciated the amendment of the Water Act, namely the amendment of Article 69, from which you removed those last fuses in this water law, in order to consistently prohibit the construction of hazardous materials and the construction of landfills in water protection areas. In fact, given that we are celebrating the world’s water day today, I would expect you to add additional safeguards to this law or to this article to prevent the misuse of these water resources, or even these water resources. I come from an area where we have a constant problem with clean drinking water. This is the area of the Drava Valley, and I would also like to draw attention to the problem of the Murska Valley and Savinja Valley. I think you are also familiar with these reports or this monitoring carried out in 2019 on groundwater bodies. In this monitoring were specifically exposed to these three cots, according to Dravska, Murska and Savinja Cauldron, that water quality is defined as poor in these boilers. It is said that the quality of groundwater in this area is very poor or poor. You also know that because you have done much of the same thing, that ground water has a very poor self-cleaning capacity and pollution that enters this groundwater, these specific physical and chemical processes also hold for a long time. What is most important and also important to highlight and mention is the fact that 97% of the population of Slovenia is essentially the main source of drinking water. That's why I want to know: Did you get any additional results, partial water quality monitoring results for last year? Could the Coronavirus itself have affected this, or if even the monitoring could have been abandoned? I am particularly interested in Dravsko, Mursko and Savinja Valley: How do you plan to resolve from the point of view of this water law, that we will really have the opportunity and access to clean drinking water, to which, unfortunately, we now have only partially or do not have it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u326	Dear Member, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity today on World Water Day to talk about this extremely important issue not only for Slovenia but more broadly. In Slovenia, we will consistently, in particular with the measures of the Ministry of the Environment, protect water resources, prevent pollution and monitor the state of both groundwater and, of course, surface water in order to preserve the water well-being of future generations. There has been much talk about the regulation or the law under consideration, but under this law we will not, I stress, allow no dangerous production facilities in the water protection area. Today, Article 69 of the Water Act prevents the construction of production – I emphasise, production and sub-type of production – facilities in the water protection area using hazardous substances, and today all service facilities using hazardous substances are allowed. In the water protection area there are countless petrol pumps, countless car washes, cleaners, such and other service facilities, blenders of paints, paints and varnishes that use dangerous substances. And that's not forbidden. Also, the hand on the heart, manufacturing as well as service potential – potentially only in the event of accidents or accidents – threaten resources in groundwater or lower, or also sources after drinking water, while, according to my assessment, agriculture still poses the greatest risk to water condition, although it is less and less due to the modern way, as well as the transport of hazardous substances that is permitted. Today, the largest and most toxic chemicals can be transported through water protection areas. Risk for accidents, for spilling out — this has recently happened, for example, in Primorskie or the spilling of kerosene, which we know well and was not related to any production activity. It is therefore very interesting to monitor today, as I would say, an orchestral attack on this law by those who were silent when they were moving and building channel C0 across the water protection zone. At that time, there was no place to defend the water protection area from the main sewer water beyond this relatively sensitive area — without a prior environmental impact assessment. So, honourable Member, I can guarantee you that we will do everything in the Ministry of the Environment to protect water resources in Slovenia in order to preserve the good water condition. In your parliamentary question, you mentioned specific information on the results of the monitoring of groundwater quality. Analyses for the period 1998 to 2019, this is said to be almost a 30-year period, show the statistical characteristic of trends in the reduction of nitrate, atrazine and its decomposition product of distill-atrazine on groundwater bodies and on individual measuring sites. Nitrate trends fall on all water bodies of groundwater, with exceptional Krka cotline, atrazine and distillyl-atrazine in the Savalina and Ljubljana Bar and in the Savinska Cauldron are found only in traces below 0.03 microgram per litre. The condition in the water bodies has improved. In some aquifers, the values of destil-atrazine, Krška kotlina, and atrazina, Murska kotlinina have not yet been reduced, so it is still about 0.03 micrograms per litre, but these do not show any trends. If I can sum it up. The chemical state of these key parameters is improved or stagnated. Of course, these trends need to be maintained or even improved, and it is therefore essential that we continue with the measures taken in the Water Management Programme, which we will also carry out consistently at the Ministry of the Environment in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u328	Your Honor, once again, thank you for your word. As far as this C0 channel is concerned, it was us in Levica who supported you at the time, even in this debate or in protecting this water protection area, and I think that the part of the opposition was the Members who supported it at the time. I think it was Mr Angie Logar who led the debate on this subject. But I'd like to say one more thing about atrazin and nitrates. Yeah, that's the problem. Atrazin and nitrates are also slowly cleaned in these groundwaters or these water bodies, and I also expect you to have some additional strategy to solve this problem, to try as soon as possible or as quickly as possible, as far as possible due to these chemical processes that are going on, as well as best possible, and to clean up this water protection area, is called the Drava Valley, the Murska boiler and the Savina boiler. You have now explained about the Water Act, which we have already discussed on the Committee. However, I wonder if we can expect it, too, is said in the debate in the National Assembly, which will take place next week, I think, on Tuesday. So we can expect you to add additional security guards to protect these water protection areas, to ensure that I also receive amendments or to support amendments that will go in this direction at the very meeting of the National Assembly. At least that's what I understood. Did I misinterpret it? That's what I wanted, and it's also the right thing to do in this direction. So if we're talking about protecting these water protection areas, then I think it's the only solution to write this infamous 69th article or arrange it in this direction to contain as many cleaners as possible to protect clean drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u330	Commissioner, thank you for this additional question and the opportunity to explain. In fact, there are already several safeguards in the Government's proposal to allow pollution to occur as a result of production facilities using hazardous substances – they have already been regulated. First time, first time. For any such potential plant that would be built in a water protection area, environmental consent must be obtained. The environmental consensus means that the professions – I emphasise the professions, not the politicians – let us leave an assessment of whether a particular type of production can result in environmental pollution or groundwater pollution using hazardous substances or not and whether the measures envisaged by the project are sufficient to reduce any risk of this happening. In local terms, in the water protection area, production, I don't know, of iron fences, where the manufacturer of these fences can also be used to paint dangerous substances, color. It's a dangerous substance today. As a result, such an assessment shall determine how many of these quantities are, whether measures are not sufficient or not to lead to any pollution of the environment and, consequently, an authorisation shall be granted. The current regulation or current law a priori prohibits all production in a water protection zone using hazardous substances and allows any service activity using hazardous substances in a water protection area, of course, while respecting the environmental agreement, and that the Water Protection Area Regulation makes this possible. We only want to equalise production and service activities because we believe that the risk to groundwater is identical in service or production activities and depending on each project, which must be assessed by the profession and the profession to give an answer whether the risk is acceptable or not. This makes a difference between this proposal and the current situation. This is said to be not possible due to our assessment because of the fuses – the first guard is that environmental consensus is needed, and the second is that such an activity must also allow the Water Protection Area Regulation so that these fuses are sufficient to avoid any risk to water resources. Finally, modern manufacturing technology prevents the use of hazardous substances and replaces them with non-hazardouss, foresees countless preventive measures to prevent any potential contamination of groundwater. This is, in our opinion, another moderate risk, or some moderate possibility of allowing such production facilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Koražija, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u332	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The water is supposed to be free of color, smell and taste, at least that pure drinking water. Since clean drinking water is our universal value or also a kind of gift or gift at that time, we really need to make sure that we protect these supplies or those water - protection areas. We're all responsible for this. As citizens of you, Mr Minister, we expect you to act in this direction, it is for the protection of the environment and for the benefit of the citizens. With regard to your previous implementation or the interpretation of this law, I think that, in the light of the European Green Agreement, which will once again, I think, for 2022, we should be looking forward to trying as many of these production plants as possible from these water protection zones slowly or close or to moving them somewhere to areas that will allow them to operate. Or in this direction, it will have to work that these plants will in fact no longer work in any way toward environmental pollution, even pure drinking water. I therefore propose that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly. I think that this is an area that not only concerns all of us, but it is also the committee, because you know that the media has also presented quite a lot of trouble, because I think it is right for citizens to stand up for themselves. [[...]] When it comes to these basic goods, which we are all responsible for, I think it is right for all of us to discuss this here in the National Assembly. That is why we are Members because we are here on behalf of citizens, the environment and nature. So let's have a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti a question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u334	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister! Castles are really long-lasting buildings, but only if someone lives in them and maintains them will they perish quickly. This is exactly what has been happening for many years with the castle of Šrajbarski turn in Leskovec near Kršek, one of the 33 castles or castles that have been declared a cultural monument of national importance. This title and status was also earned by its former prominent owners, including the Celje Counts, Barons Mosconi, the Auersperg family, and others. By decree declaring the area of the Šrajbarski Tour as a cultural monument of State importance, in 1999 the castle became the property of the State and on its behalf of the Ministry of Culture. According to the investment plans of the State, the Ministry of Culture should start the renovation of the castle in 2003 after the castle was filmed and the documentation produced. As part of the reconstruction, it provided for the arrangements for educational, cultural, exhibition, catering and economic activities, but without any justification. The following purpose was achieved in 2007 when the Municipality of Krško renovated the Šrajbarski turn castle into one of the concluded protocols with the country at the expense of the placement of the NSRAO landfill in the area of Vrbina, but also this experiment was not realized. Dear Minister! I know that, as an expert in history, you certainly know the importance of the Šrajbarska Tour, and you have been in the same political position as today in 2007, so you certainly do not need further explanations. That's why I'm just asking you: Will the state allow this cultural and architectural pearl to continue to fail or will it finally begin to implement the protocol in which it committed itself to its restoration 14 years ago?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u336	Thank you so much for asking. As you have found, in 2007 the Government, at the initiative of the Municipality of Krško gradovanje castle, placed on the list of commitments relating to the placement of a landfill of low- and medium-level radioactive waste in the Municipality of Krško and for this purpose it is intended to be signed, of course, a protocol for the financing of the renovation of the Šrajbarski turn castle, which is to be signed by the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economy, the Agency for Radioactive Waste and the Municipality of Krško. With the signing of the Protocol, the Ministry of Culture is expected to undertake the renovation of the castle from the European Union, the European Regional Development Fund, the period 2007-2013, but the Ministry of the Protocol did not, as I know, sign because it was unable to provide a financial resource for a comprehensive reconstruction. At the same time, I would like to say that at the time we also rebuilt the town of Pišece, which you probably know where the Agency for Radioactive Waste, the Municipality of Brežica in this case, was behind this, but when we rebuilt the castle, they withdrew from all those commitments they had made earlier. Today the castle is mostly, mostly, 99 percent restored and empty, which is, of course, what you say, if the castle is empty, then it falls. And in fact now the restored house, the rebuilt castle, which has been invested in a great deal of resources and effort, is failing. With regard to the Šibarski Tour, it is necessary to establish that the castle is currently empty, for force maintained but not suitable for use. Residents who lived in this castle until they moved out gradually destroyed decorative wooden pressure, you know that, ceramic furnaces and other inventory. There are cracks in the parts of the castle, prolonged pressures and the like. The roof is in extremely poor condition. The fact is that a conservation plan was developed for the castle in 2008. The Ministry commissioned an investigation into the material and technical condition of the roof structure and the recording of the existing roof and roof structure for the purpose of the rehabilitation of the castle roof in 2018. The Ministry is of course aware that this castle has to be taken into account in any way and, in fact, in November 2020, a contract for the production of project documentation was concluded a few months ago, DGD PZI for the rehabilitation of the roof and roof structure and the project will be produced by the middle of this year. The execution of the roof rehabilitation is foreseen until 2022 and 2023. Of course, other major interventions were not carried out. However, necessary maintenance work is carried out at all times to avoid further damage. What will be the next fate for the town of Shraibarski? For the evaluation of cultural monuments, since 2009, the possibility of sales or at least concessions is allowed. This castle can be awarded, operated or leased. Of course, we want something like this to happen, which would greatly facilitate the ministry's decision to actually invest in a final renewal and then to manage or rent the best provider that could actually carry out the last specified activities there, including catering and similar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Shisko, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u338	Thank you, Chairman. As you are already used to, in my questions I often mention the issue of nuclear power plants or radioactive waste, and at first glance it is unusual, even this time I cannot get past it. You have already heard from the previous session that Minister Vizjak announced the move of the ARAO headquarters to Krška, where it is expected to start construction of the landfill this year. We have also heard that the country has promised to rescue the castle to include the spatial needs of the ARAO agency. Regrettably, the fate of the rescue of the Šreibarska Tour is dragging as slowly as the construction of the landfill and, in the meantime, the state has failed to take care of its reconstruction, and so far it is a missed opportunity for the agency to have its premises there. It is also true that there was no one who would own the castle himself, but all the time and even today there is a lot of interest in its use in the economy. Unlike many others, the city is in an extremely beautiful location. It is also fair to say that in recent years the fate of the castle has been most pointed out by both the Municipality of Krško and the entire Slovenian public, Mr Jože Olovec, the Krški Municipal Councilor and the President of the Krajevna Community Leskovec pri Krškem. He also invited many of the skills of the castle, such as today's Foreign Minister Anže Logar, former European Ambassador Patricia Šulin and others. Since you are both a Pocketman and a Minister, all members of the same political organization, I hope that this time, however, there will be a shift in the fate of the Sribar Tour as you have already told me in your explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u340	Thank you very much. In fact, the fundamental problem with these renovations is that the environment in which such an object is located, the environment, the municipality, the wider environment, offers content that would provide the possibility after the restoration of this castle, or such a building lives with a positive zero, if I say so in economic jargon, and here affection does not then diminish. Of course, we have made certain plans this year, and also for the following years, also with regard to European funds and similar matters, but if we get the right programming content, the right and convincing, credible offers, that there will be such an activity in the castle that will allow the castle to then sustain itself, then the ministry could approach such a restoration more quickly. However, the Ministry is aware of this position of this castle and, as I mentioned in the first reply, it is also concerned to some extent that this decline does not continue. But it's important, as I said, the program, the content that can only be offered by the environment in which such a building is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u341	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u342	Thank you. Before that, Minister Vrtovec was still here. [[…]] Okay. My question relates to the low-level and out-of-military crossings on the lower part of the mountain railway or as a minister knows that the point which grieves me is mainly the railway crossing on Trata, which was closed by the Slovenian Railwayway through the consent of the Municipality of Škofja Loka for motor traffic, and this with the sharp opposition of all locals – from local firefighters to the village of Trate. In particular, this closure for the motor traffic transition to Trati is problematic in view of the fact that it leads through this transition the shortest, fastest intervention path and for the industrial zone and for the local population. 250 villagers have Trata, 450 people working there in the industrial zone in Knauf. For something to happen, rapid intervention is crucial and this scenario is not hypothetical. About 2 years ago, in February, Knauf burned down and only the timely arrival of firefighters prevented gas cylinders from being blown up in a warehouse that was inflamed. This closure of the transition for motor transport, as far as Slovenian Railways or the Commission for the level crossings are concerned, is still not in accordance with the regulations to which they refer, so an alternative has been prepared in Škofja Loka, another temporary solution is said. This temporary solution was not answered by the Municipality of Škofja Loka. However, at the last visit and meeting of the commission, some members of the commission did not even read it at the location. This solution has the advantage of allowing local and intervention traffic across the transition. So on the table we have two extracts, two alternatives, two temporary solutions. One solution for which are local firefighters, villagers Trate, Municipality of Škofja Loka, in short the entire Škofja Loka, which deals with this issue. The second solution has been implemented in practice, as the Slovenian Railways have put it to me, that nothing has passed your agreement with the Municipality of Škofja Loka, past the local firefighters who know the area, and have taken advantage of it, has used the reconstruction of the transition across the railway lines to close it down for motorized traffic and thus put the lives of the already mentioned 250 villagers of Trata and 450 workers in the industrial zone, especially in the Knauf factory. Minister Vrtovec, I want to know: When will you stop the closure of the Trat Pass and when can the Municipality of Škofja Loka expect an answer to this well-founded alternative, what can you do with this transition until the construction of the out-of-war crossing?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u344	Thank you. It would be very irresponsible for me to say, Mr Kordish, where you were two years ago when you were the one who supported that ruling coalition that did this. Or this same group, the committee that did it. I met with the mayor of Skofje Loka myself twice, and we talked about it, and we talked about it. He was with or along with all the initiators around it. This Commission issued its decision for the first time in 2009, when I was not yet in this Parliament. The proceedings then proceeded essentially to that coalition, which was also supported by the Left, that it was elected in Parliament. Now I am doing my best to do anything possible to make life as easy as possible for those workers who work in the company concerned and, of course, for the residents and residents. We have a disabled person there who walks every day or walks across the track with a wheelchair so that there will be no mistake. I am very well aware of this and we have this in mind. But once the Commission has adopted the relevant conclusions — what happened before my term of office, that there will be no mistake — it is very difficult to return to zero. But now we're doing everything we can to defend it or to go back to zero. I can say that what is a status now – that you will not say that it is only a political account based on some past actions and so on – I believe that there is still enough room for manoeuvre, Mr Kordish, that we will bring it back as necessary. Especially for cars, trucks. If you go to Google Maps now, and you see this transition, you'll find that, in fact, the trucks went through this passage earlier. This will be disabled in the future. But I'm not saying it's gonna be the same for cars. What is essential is that we make or that we have already adopted all the necessary conclusions. The Mayor, Mr Tina Radinja, also knows that we have made all the necessary conclusions, we have adopted all the positions to finally renovate, upgrade, restore for more than 10 million euros the railway station of Škofja Lok and in this reconstruction, which could begin in 2022, we also make a subway including this part, Mr Kordiš. Undercarriage for this part, not for trucks, but we're talking about cars. That's it. In the interim period, I am talking about this until 2023, and I am also calling on this group, this committee to discuss again whether this was done on the nose. I can also agree with you that this was on your nose. If I were a local Member, I would say the same thing, but for the first time, the local community was facing an existing mayor, whom I personally know, in 2009. Since then, there has been neither spirit nor hearing. Then it was in that mandate, which is said to be in front of me, placed and stung. I wasn't the minister, and I wasn't the one who supported that coalition, but now I have to shut it down, and you tell me how. I can only turn it off by doing something at this point, which is illegal. Then, if there's a car on that pass, because you're saying that the crossing should be again, hit, you'll say that the minister is guilty and let him back down. Then that minister will be to blame for making that transition again. If you tell me now, Minister, to make this transition again and publicly call this commission to be reopened and to be where it is, and if anything happens, Mr Kordish and I don't know who will take full responsibility for the deaths, then I believe that the commission will make it easier to decide. However, it will be very difficult for me to tell the Commission to change its decisions back and if within a period of time, until the approach is gone, anything will happen on this transition, otherwise secured – let's be fair, secure – but it is within the railway station, if anything happens, you will point, hmm, but you see why the death victim is. We can all be smart when everything's fine, but when something comes up, the minister finally answers. The long-term solution, Mr Kordish, is that we have already discussed with the mayor that before we start working the station, we will take the approach next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u346	Thank you for your word, chairman. In his reply, Minister Vrtovec used some half-truths, but half of his answer dealt with me and not with the railway crossing on Trata, which I asked him about. However, I will tell him where I was when his predecessor, Alenka Bratušek, was also defending the decision to close this transition. I called her to account, I asked her a question, and with your vote there was a general debate, we had a general debate on this subject. Here I was, doing my job on the basis of the mandate of the inhabitants and residents of Škofja Loka. You said we'd get this passage back so you could hope for it. Very simple: I wonder when? We have a municipal solution on the table, this municipal solution is appropriate and cannot wait for the railway station to be rebuilt, and everyone wants it. The reference to the decisions for the return also does not drink water, I must admit, Mr Minister, that this is not your fault – because of the situation at the transition. But in the past, when arrangements and decisions were made, for example, you mentioned the 2009 year, a comprehensive arrangement was promised in the context of this integrated arrangement, as well as the undercarriage. Now we have what? A closed railway crossing, through which firefighters can't and the undercarriage is nowhere, or the nearest undercarriage was made for industrial purposes one kilometer away, after which the intervention route is extended by four, five minutes, as local firefighters can say. As a result, there may be an accident and there will be no fatalities, there will be no two fatalities, they will be measured into a few hundred if we capture the inhabitants of Trata and if we include employees operating in Knauf, which also deals with materials that can be flammable. What happens if Knauf goes into the air? In short, the solution is simple: a commission for the level crossings, new facts and to accept, confirms the solution, as proposed by the Municipality of Škofja Lok, and you must ensure that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u348	Basically, I would agree with everything that's been said, but the problem is that there is a legal issue here. In the past, we have exhausted or exhausted all legal options. If I had the chance to say this moment here, okay, this transition will come back to life, Mr Kordish will also take responsibility, whatever happens, we would. It's not a problem. But it's not the responsibility of him to run somebody over there, it's the fact that we have a commission, and it's not just the commission of my ministry. If I said it was only my will, we could put it back in place, because Mr Kordesh is not the only one asking that question, there is someone else. We get a lot of questions from the title of this transition and it's not only the power of the ministry, there are Slovenian railways, which belong to another sector, but are only substantively connected to me. And another ministry that covers that, too. No problem. We can hit the gas, and we can talk about it. But once again, when something happens, if anyone decides anything on the nose in the event of this transition, the Minister will be responsible for why he did not terminate this transition. We should talk about this, I'm talking about, a few years ago, and today we're talking about when Minister Vrotec finally got the solution, to take the approach next year, before we start rebuilding the train station. We've already talked about this with the mayor. So I don't know, these questions that you're referring to are pace passage, I'd say Italians. We talked about this with the mayor a month ago. It's nice of you to take care of it, but we've had this conversation with Mr. Mayor back in the day. Of course, we do not yet have the solution to bring this transition back to life. Why not? Because it's a key issue, or we can recover the situation that was before. Do we have a legal basis? That's the key. When you asked this question and we supported the vote in the opposition to hold a debate, then it was the right time. But once there's sand, there's no ramp, there's nothing. You ask me that two years, three years later. We can rewind the new costs and everything. However, this time, yes, is also extended by intervention time for about three minutes, including for transitions, everything is prolonged, I agree with this, but solving the situation of a few years of delay is much more difficult than then. All I can say is that we're going to do our best, of course we're going to do our best, and I also promised the mayor that we could get a solution. I hope that the Commission will recognise this in the coming weeks when they meet again on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u350	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, I want a general debate because the Minister's arguments do not stand. To begin with the argument that by closing the railway crossing on Trata there is a legal basis. This does not hold, or hold, very conditional, because, under this same legal basis, this transition on Trata would have to be fully closed. Puff! Not that it's still open to anything that's not motorized traffic. Of course, I think that it should remain open because security in relation to the industrial zone and fire-fighting access to the villagers of Trate outweighs the fact that this transition is open to the pedestrians. However, the legal form argument is not already taken into account, but is not already being consumed. All we want for locals in Škofja Loka is for a temporary solution to be developed in such a way that it will be possible to access motorized traffic through this transition and because of employees and locals and because of the intervention path. On the basis of what needs to be done, I'm going to banalise a little bit, but not so much again when you mention, Mr. Minister, the costs. For starters, see, Slovenian railways passed agreement with the Municipality of Škofja Lok, pushed this passage and placed carts there. Despite the severe opposition of the locals and the passing of agreement with the Municipality of Škofja archa. Yes, well, then let Slovenian railways pay for the implementation of what it brought to the congregation table, or for the return of it to its original state; and it does not require so much. This is where we get to the point where I said I was banalizing. All you need is one flaker to burn those metal stakes, and it's only a matter of time before this goes on and on, when will any of the locals actually do it. Of course, we all want a renewed train station and a subway that would permanently solve the issue of this railway crossing on the track, but until I see it, I don't believe in it, and everyone else, around there, locals and so, gets enough salt to know that there is no more lasting solution than a temporary solution. That's why they want the portal to be reopened by the construction of this underpass. The Transition Commission also recently held a meeting on the transition. She was informed, if not earlier, on the spot, of the alternatives or earlier, that the municipality had sent them an alternative proposal, and some members of the commission did not read the proposal. And now, if there is a problem in the Commission, very simply, the Commission can make an alternative decision, a different decision, take note of the new facts and then make an appropriate decision. But if the commission doesn't want to do this stubbornly, then change the commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Ms Tina Heferle asked the Minister of Justice for Mags. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u352	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good evening, Madam Secretary! My question also today concerns the appointment or the procedure for selecting and getting acquainted with the two European Delegated Prosecutors. We know that this awareness-raising process at the level of the Government stands, and we know that Slovenia, by appointing these two prosecutors, has been late since 1 March. Today I have asked a very similar question, if not the same question, to the President of the Government, who, I must admit, in his reply, surprised me a little bit. Indeed, he said that the procedure for the selection of these two European prosecutors under our legislation is very unusual and that the Government is only a postman in this process. He then somehow indicated that they would check this procedure and until it was fully clear what this procedure was like, the government would not be aware of this choice of these two candidates. That's what he said. We both know that the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office sets out the procedure for selecting the candidate and the procedure for raising awareness at government level very clearly and very easily. It surprises me whether or not; first there was so much talk about this English, after it was somehow stated that both candidates have a sufficient degree, even higher, of English, as required by the European regulations of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, now somehow this weight with the President of the Government has become overtaken by this selection or awareness process, if it is not okay. I therefore ask you, in particular, given the position taken by your ministry at the previous meeting of the Justice Committee. The Secretary of State said that, with regard to European Delegated Prosecutors, the selection phase is at a stage where verification of compliance with the prescribed conditions is no longer checked. That's what I quoted from the magnetogram. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you: How will you defend this choice, which is already over? It was also expertly justified by the State Prosecutor's Council. How will you defend this autonomy of the prosecution in Slovenia? How will you prevent such or other manoeuvres from changing the law of the post-festum and its retroactive use – as we know is prohibited in our country, except in very, very exceptional circumstances – how will you prevent this will of the State Prosecutor's Council from being played and your proposal sent to the Government will be ignored?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u354	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Your Honour, Mrs Hefferle, good evening to you, too. With regard to the appointment of prosecutors or the choice, much has already been said in the media, including on the committee, today the President of the Government has also answered your questions, and I believe that Thursday, when the National Assembly decides to amend the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, there is still a great deal of opportunity to clarify all the questions. First of all, I must say that we cannot talk about appointment in the case of delegated prosecutors. The appointment shall be carried out by the European Public Prosecutor, so that this is the first difference that we must be aware of, because it is not the same procedure as the procedure that the Government has in appointing regular prosecutors. There, of course, the Government has competence, full competence, to decide to issue an administrative act. In the case of Delegated Prosecutors, the procedure is different. With us, we have decided to call on the Ministry of Justice and then the State Prosecutor's Council checks or proposes candidates after receiving the opinion of the Attorney General himself. This does not yet mean a choice, nor does it mean a appointment; it is only about proposing candidates. Therefore, according to our procedure, the Ministry of Justice has only a proposed role and an introduction to the Government. You're asking me how. So you think you're trying to change English or you're trying to change legislation. I think that these are just predictions, but we can't talk about what's actually happening in public, and you want to say it now. So, how am I gonna defend the state's attorney? I think I've been a public prosecutor all along, and that's how I'm gonna stay. Indeed, I can do what is my responsibility and, within this competence, I will undoubtedly defend the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u356	Thank you very much, Vice President. Madam Minister, yes, I agree, you have also described very nicely the entire selection process and then the briefings. And of course, I talk about getting to know and not naming all the time. As far as this assumption is concerned, as you have concluded, I do not agree here. The President of the Government has made it very clear today, but I suggest you take another look at this video, "until this procedure is fully clear" – we are talking about a familiar procedure in accordance with the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office – "the government will not become aware of the choice". So what is this other than an attempt to change this proposal of already selected two candidates, because for such or other reasons – and I do not intend to speculate why this government or the President of the Government do not like it. So, these are not my assumptions, the President of the Government himself indicated, "Until then, the government will not be familiar with this proposal." And of course, the European Public Prosecutor's Office will not be able to carry out this appointment, and this institution of the European Delegated Prosecutor will not exist with us until then. And I asked you, yes, how will you defend this, this autonomy of the prosecution. In my opinion, it is not enough for the Minister of Justice to say that everything in my power has been done, because in the way it is now, and with all due respect, Madam Minister, the President of the Government is also making a fool of you, or he is also faking your decisions, and he is undermining your integrity and competence. So I'm asking you what you're going to do to make it not so, because either silence or reference to certain powers is obviously not enough in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I invite my colleague to put a mask on her face. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Predicts or not, what the President of the Government said today, I am not familiar and difficult to comment on. So whatever you're asking me, I need to know about it, and then I can give you the answer. The amendment of legislation requires its process, its time, and it is also adopted under a certain procedure. I'm going to stress again because I don't think you can somehow expect me to act out of my jurisdiction. I would be responsible if I violated my powers, so once again I stress that I will do everything in my power.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mrs Hefferle, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u360	Of course, I have a procedural proposal to hold a broader debate at one of the next meetings, because I do not have the hope of having a debate on the response of the Prime Minister. Let me explain, Madam Secretary. I don't speak or expect anyone to overstep their powers. I was talking about that it would be important to speak more loudly about this complication if you want to be in the media space, if you want to attend government meetings and so on. And yes, the amendment of legislation that the President of the Government has somehow ordered today with this view that until this procedure is clarified – I do not know what else to clear up, because the law very clearly prescribes the procedure and quite simply, as I have already said many times today – the government will not be aware of it by then. This has obviously become a fact today. I suggest you take a look at the magnetogram of his answer. Until then, Slovenia, for the first time, will be without this institute of the European Delegated Prosecutor, which is the problem. And secondly, when she tries to play, Madam Minister, your decision, your proposal, which you have sent to the Government, in a way that is first sought, as I mentioned earlier, through some English, then Mr President of the Government has blamed you, Madam Secretary-General. It is now being tried with some amendment to the legislation, which I would like to point out that your Secretary of State has made it clear that it must not be retroactive, that is to say, in retroactive force. The selection procedure for these two Delegated Prosecutors has already been completed, and this is worrying, extremely worrying. And here is the creation of this politicisation of the prosecution in Slovenia, and as a lawyer, it makes me extremely sad. On the other hand, I am extremely concerned if we are to allow, through all professional qualifications, some personal objections to the President of the Government to be given priority, then I do not know where this country will come in the future. That is why I think it is extremely important that this issue, although we have talked about it many times in the National Assembly, is still under discussion and once and for all we will take a position whether we will be a legal state that respects the rule of law and the sharing of the principle of power and so on or not. Even under your ministry, Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku, who is absent. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u362	Thank you very much, and for this I will also ask for an oral reply at the next meeting, because we have also agreed to meet with the local community and with me, which will be held in the coming days, so that we will also be able to make public those results. I'm talking about the reckless exploitation of the Trnove Forest. This is in the far west of our country, and this forest has been seen as being exploited in Roman times. The first records of its use date back to the 16th century. From this forest, the barracks were coming, if I may say so, or the jamboree. In the last period, it is the greatest and most reckless action towards the exploitation of this natural habitat. In fact, each year there has been an enormous increase in the number of logs and trees in the last period. Only for the feeling that if it has been cut from 15,000 to 20,000 cubic metres in the past, we can talk today about the quantities between 50 and 60 thousand cubic meters of cutting. Therefore, in order to better achieve these quotas, it is mainly reflected in thick trees through the holo-month system, which has been banned in the Republic of Slovenia since 1949. Thus, I am talking about the Trnove Forest, where the exploitation of this forest makes other functions particularly difficult. I am talking about hunting management and, of course, what is crucial – this is about the fact that due to an inappropriate cut, the storm has already hit the most vulnerable area of this natural habitat, which would mean that it is a departure from what we call the sustainable development of an area as sensitive as the Trnovo Forest. Some vegetables in the middle of the woods have also been destroyed. This, of course, prevents the survival of wildlings, which is highlighted in particular by locals who understand that the country is mishandling our natural characteristics in this case. After the invitation to tender was issued, SiDG laid down the conditions that subcontractors should not behave machetely to what should be our heritage. I'm talking mainly about the loss of tree variety of forests. The proportion of glacial forests in the Trnov forest has decreased significantly over the last period. Of course, it is primarily the work of subcontractors who feel no compassion for such conduct. I must say that in all these bad news, we are only keeping a handful of hope, because the minister has shown an affinity to this issue, and I hope that we will present to the public in April the outcome of the agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u364	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Today, you have also been among the discussers or MPs who have mentioned this social bomb that occurred in our beloved Lower Podravje by closing down or predicting the closure of the Safilo factory in Ormož. After all, Mr Minister had already explained that he had been to Ormož and also met with the mayors and the owners of the company. The fact is that this problem of Lower Podravje will hold for quite some time in a clumps or in a cramp because unemployment will increase again, even among young people, but with the announcement of the closure of this company, unemployment will certainly go up quite high. If you have been careful, I also pointed out this problem in the National Assembly last year, which we are constantly experiencing in this eastern part of Slovenia, or even in Lower Podravje, where these so-called social bombs occur. It is said that when closures begin or business closures are announced, then there will also be fears among people and also in fact among employees who are looking for other options, of course if they get them at all. Now I know that this is a company, so Safilo, from May 2020 to March 2021 received EUR 716 000 of state aid. I am interested and I also ask you, as Minister of the Economy, or as Minister of Labour: Does that information hold? It is not the first time that this company actually forgave, that this was already happening in 2017 and even then they fired about 228 workers. I want to know: How do you plan to deal with this problem? I must admit that I have followed all of Mr Restoration's statements very well and very carefully, because here we really need to find the right solution because the Lower Podravje is constantly on the wallpaper. I also want to know: What exactly is your rescue strategy? Usually it's a matter of saving factory owners and other managers, and workers stay too many times, and it's a matter of order, screwed up. Given that I have been monitoring your statements and also these meetings and press conferences, where you also mentioned some of the other employers in order to be able to do other jobs, I am interested in: Have you been in contact with any relevant employers, and with which, if you like or if you can say so, and which of these employers have already expressed their support?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u365	I'm afraid time's up. Minister Rest, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u366	Mr Boštjan Koražija, honourable Member of the National Assembly, thank you for asking the question. I have already been in charge of the company Safilo to the honourable Member of Mr Ivanus today. I can reiterate that I am confident that companies closing their doors would be much more than that if the Government did not take active action to address this crisis. The measures were intended for businesses and workers, not employers. This is confirmed by the IMF's published report on Friday, which states that Slovenia has responded to the negative effects with swift, extensive and well-coordinated measures. The Ministry of Economy has prepared a number of proposals both within the framework of anti-Korona laws and the adaptation of existing calls and the creation of new ones. Let me reiterate that the key to the systemic solution in my department is to find new investors who would establish similar or different production with higher value added at these locations, and state incentives for existing or new domestic and foreign investors. In the Safil case, we reacted quickly, met immediately with the company's management, had two contacts with owners and contacts with two potential investors. Further discussions are needed. According to the available data of the Ministry of Finance on state and de minimis aid payments in the years 1998 to 2020/2021, Safilo received a total of EUR 3.8 million net aid, of which our ministry paid a total of EUR 954 000. All funds were paid for the purpose of new investments and job creation, three times: in 2000, 2001 and 2006. I believe that, also because of the anti-crisis and systemic measures taken, we remain a competitive business environment for the preservation of investments, as well as new investments with a positive impact on employment. I wish that, as the IMF report states, we could further focus on creating jobs in higher value-added activities, which we have now seen as a success in industrial production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u367	Minister Janez Ciegler King, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ambassador Korazzi, Comrade Minister! We answered a very similar question a few hours ago. As you know, the priority of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in this mandate is also the creation of a responsive labour market and the preservation of quality jobs. I can say that I am concerned about the situation and the announcement of these companies. I know that the loss of employment is a shock to employees, especially the threat to families and the whole region. If I complete what Minister Restoration said from his department, in fact, the first options are what he wrote; therefore, the search for new investors who would continue or continue with other activities in this area. Of course, our role is through all solutions, or the possibility of easing the situation, if there is a real danger that employees are at risk of losing their jobs, but we have quite a few programs available. Maybe I'll start with two projects. These are project SPIN and start a career with potential. These are very targeted projects aimed at employees who are at risk of losing their jobs. So that we do not wait for someone to come into the unemployment register, but that they will be included in projects designed to encourage these people to train, to provide good information, motivation and education and thus to enable them to move to new jobs or to new jobs or to prevent their transition to unemployment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u370	Your Honor, once again, thank you for your word. As mentioned earlier, I have also closely followed Mr Restovalska's statement, which he said, “We will fight for every job, especially in the periphery”. Nice to meet you. So you're going to do everything you can or can do. However, you continued to pay particular attention to regional development and businesses such as armoski to maintain healthy activities and jobs through state aid. Because I can see that you've obviously done a lot of work on these strategies, or both, as I understand it, but I'm interested in this Eastern cohesion region: Will it be possible to directly or directly finance from EU funds or from these EU projects – and I think SPIN was, if I understand it, so that we can relatively quickly hire these people in case they remain unemployed? As I know that our country is in this case, or even this eastern region, as well as Koroška, in a very delicate situation, and even in the face of great challenges, I am interested in: How will they prepare this special or additional aid strategy in the event of – I hope that this will not happen – that there will be forgiveness or an increase in unemployment in the region of Lower Podravje or in the eastern region? This thing really happened overnight, by the way. The people were in shock, the mayors were in shock, the mayor of Ormož, the mayor of the Centre near Drava, St. Thomas. You've been talking to them yourself, but you know these stories. I hope that you will also take care, and I will be very careful to monitor you so that you will really do everything in your power or even what is in our power to prevent such forgiveness. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u371	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u372	Thank you for the supplementary question. First of all, I must say that we are looking for solutions in our ministry in two directions. First, we need to have the option of re-employment of these workers for the reserve. The key objective is to find an investor, to eventually continue existing production at existing locations in both cases, Koroška and Ormoža, or to get an investor who will be working in these premises on some new similar products. We can offer a national incentive to support this under two laws – the Investment Promotion Act or the Law on Promoting Coherent Regional Development. Exactly why I'm an optimist. To recover and restart the post-Covid crisis economy this year, we will spend €659 million in all the development incentives to be implemented under the MGRT. There will be 42 public tenders, 25 new 255 million, 17 already published with 403 million euros. In the area of regional development, I particularly highlight the call for funding incentives to restart business operations in border areas – COVID-19, worth 9 million and a freshly published Public call for co-financing of investments and the creation of new jobs in border areas in 2021 and 2022, worth € 23.8 million. In any case, we will work actively to obtain investors who are willing to invest specifically in these two companies, not only in Safilo. The State – the Ministry and the Government will do their utmost to support such investors. I can say responsibly that I believe that workers do not fear for their destiny because the economy in Slovenia as a whole needs a well-trained, highly qualified workforce, which is the main asset for us as Slovenia to be present to foreign and domestic investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u373	Minister Janez Cigler King. You don't have much time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u374	Thank you, Vice President. I'll try to be quick. As I said, we are also working in two ways in a responsive labour market. One is through intervention legislation, when we respond to the consequences of covid, and on the other hand through systemic measures, when we want to make such a responsive situation so that we can respond quickly to such and similar changes in the labour market, or in the economy, or shocks. I think that employment opportunities in this region are a little more difficult than the Slovenian average, but from January to February 2020, 924 vacancies, most of the professions of sawmills, heavy-duty truck drivers, tractors, workers for simple jobs and so on were published. So we'll follow along with [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u376	Thank you for your word. When it comes to these truly cruel fates of employees in these companies, who lose their jobs overnight or on the road, we are talking about the fates of people, their families and all the stakeholders involved in such a case. I therefore propose that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly on these answers or on this question. However, I also hope that, given that I know that we have recently received the Secretary of State from Ptuj, I hope that he too will look further at Ormož and on our territory, that he will try to solve things himself or something else. I wish that these redundancies, or closures, would not occur in the future, or in smaller forms, because yes, after this crown of crisis, things will really have to be put on a new footing, even on certain foundations, or on a new foundation. In these cases, it is true that when we build new foundations, they are employees or workers in the first place, and that we are not just protecting capital or protecting capital. What we have is the greatest value, these are our workers and workers, and this crown crisis has shown more than apparently very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Jože Lenart will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u378	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister! This is a scheme known to us from the last few days. This suggests that you intend to invest more than 30 million in investment, strengthening the public network, in homes for the elderly. Who wouldn't want that? Absolutely! And even 40 new units, 218 places for day care, 178 places for temporary accommodation and as many as a thousand 285 new beds that we have been waiting for by the state for 15 years. I agree, no problem, but look, a very specific question from this. At the time of your interpretation, you stated that when you took over the Ministry, you took over the homes of the elderly in very poor condition. In addition to the fact that homes have not been built in the last 15 years, you say that homes are not adequately constructed, equipped, and above all lack of staff according to the prescribed standards and standards. So, of course, I'm interested in a very serious question: How will you provide the necessary staff in nursing homes to meet the standards and standards for existing conditions? How will you provide additional personnel required after your investment in strengthening the public network in DSOs? I myself prepared a business plan for the elderly home in Koroška 20 years ago, and the provision of staff was an important chapter, especially in terms of lack of this staff and also poor remuneration, unstimulating. For 120 beds in one home you need a circus of 70 employees, and by standards and standards probably more. Today, the lack of staff in social security institutions is even more significant. The job of a caregiver is a demanding profession, underpaid. Look, a lot of employees from the nursing home prefer to work in Hofer, Lidlu and so on. This will probably make it even more difficult to provide for existing additions according to standards and standards, rather than for the new reinforcements you are planning. That's how I'd like to hear: How will you provide the necessary personnel? Although you have very little time available, practically less than two years, according to your predictions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u380	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Jozet Lenart, for the question. On this occasion, I would like to take this opportunity to thank once again all the employees in our homes for the elderly and all the welfare institutions for their efforts and sacrifices in controlling the epidemic. As you said, this covida epidemic has exposed and further highlighted, exacerbated, long-standing problems with the personnel and premises in the homes. In fact, we have begun to address the most pressing needs for staff in intervention legislation. We've gone somewhere in two parts. We have provided the most urgent needs, as I said, in intervention laws, namely, the CAP4 has laid the groundwork for €26 million for additional staff only in nursing homes. We have also provided this additional human resources support through the temporary deployment of employees, where there has been an increase in workload due to covida-19, and have also strengthened cooperation with health students. A number of pensioners and students also offered assistance. Even in Slovenj Gradc, when I was there, I met these teams and in many other nursing homes that I visited. From mid-August to the end of January, €26 million was additionally employed, on average, 410 people per month, i.e. on average per month. 113 participants in public works were on average monthly in public works programmes, over 15,000 hours were on temporary and temporary work and over 250,000 working hours were carried out by students and students. We have also made sure that this additional work through intervention laws has also been adequately rewarded. All temporarily deployed received another 20 percent of the supplement, and the supplement for work in the grey and red zones was 30 percent. Of course, employees are already entitled to an allowance of 65 per cent on the basis of a collective agreement. We also intervened in the provision of personnel, which was a major challenge in the second wave of the epidemic, a major problem in the outbreaks of the virus, we encouraged and actively participated in the connection with local health homes, where capacity in these areas, of course, allowed this to happen. And we have established cooperation with and through Civil Protection with NGOs to help volunteers. For those 26 million that we have provided for the next two years, we have also encouraged and strengthened the Employment Service to become more connected with the homes for older people in search of new personnel, because it is true that what you have pointed out is extremely difficult to get especially nursing staff into homes. Also a health care nurse, especially a middle nurse, but this is also a health problem. That's how we're going to have to deal with this problem in its entirety. After an analysis of the education and qualifications of the unemployed at the Employment Service, those who met the criteria were particularly encouraged to choose to work in their homes. So, on the one hand, we've arranged things interventionally for the next two years. The first response home is that this is a good way to make the right way for this period. At the same time, we are aware of what you said. With our plans to invest both state and through concessions in strengthening the public network, we will need and we are obliged, this is our duty, to also prepare the conditions for these investments to be covered by appropriate personnel. In fact, we have already directed our action at this point. Maybe if you give me a chance, I'll go on to the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u382	Indeed, Minister, we both have to agree that there have been incredible efforts or efforts during this period, but of course this is not a long-term solution. In this way we do not have to work forever, and this problem must be permanently resolved, as you have already indicated. Look, we're still trying to clear this up. The practice so far has shown that there is a real problem in this area, which has also proved to be a real problem in recent practices. The first problem arose when we introduced reference clinics in health care, new needs arose for medical personnel. The second problem was the introduction of health centres. The third problem arose with pilot projects in Koroška, Celje, Krškem, with pilot projects of long-term care programmes. In all cases, there has been a departure of medical and nursing staff mainly from hospitals and health homes. Thus, an additional problem and distress, a lack of nurses, and medical technicians arose in hospitals. We know the problem that makes nurses and medical technicians increasingly burdensome and overburning. There are no applications for calls and the problem continues to grow. Nurses and medical technicians leave from the hospital to reference clinics, to health centres for easy work, so that they do not have to be on duty. Dear Minister! You will have to solve this problem with greater seriousness, systematically and in conjunction with other ministries, education, health care, because this is a common problem, as you said yourself. How will you provide health personnel in the DSOs in particular? The technical cadre will probably also be easier given that unemployment is now increasing when companies are closed down. This, of course, does not apply to the health sector, where there is already a shortage and demand for reinforcements. It is said that certain personnel will even be able to save – what is happening now – and this health personnel is something specific. Unfortunately, we're going to have to do something, do something together, including with health care, with education, and do something concrete, which I don't think any of us have today. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u384	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Lenart, for complementing the question. As I said, somewhere in two parts, we tackled these situations of solving the human resources problem in nursing homes, namely the intervention response I explained in the first part and the second is the systemic response, which concerns in the broadest sense the adoption of the long-term care law. You know that this coalition has set itself, and we will also achieve this goal. We will do everything in our power to put this law on one comprehensive basis for the care of the elderly, which will also include appropriate modern human resources standards and norms. On the one hand, they will provide very quality care for the elderly, regardless of the form, whether it is home aid, deinstitutionalization, day centres, smaller units or then in homes for the elderly as institutional forms of protection. We have also embarked on a systematic overhaul of human resources standards and norms. On 16 October 2020, we appointed a working group for human resources standards and standards within the home for older and special welfare institutions, which is preparing a proposal to improve and modernise the legislation. It is also very important when we change or interfere with these human resources standards and norms, and it has stopped here many times in the past, and there is also an aspect of the increase in price, which is usually a threat, due to these higher standards. We also need to be particularly sensitive to this problem, because the care of the elderly is for the users of this system themselves as well as for their property can be a huge cost, a huge financial burden and we really need to be sensitive and comprehensively able to resolve this matter. However, it will be necessary, as you have pointed out, to improve the way or conditions of work from the point of view of employees, by means of appropriate staff standards and standards, to enable employees to be also burdened with such hard work, and to make work more attractive. True, there are many loving people here who are committed to providing adequate care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u386	Thank you very much. I mean, Minister, in our debate, we both found that this is going to be a damn hard nut. The problem of providing staff when expanding capacity in nursing homes with your efforts and programmes is extremely difficult and requires a truly in-depth approach. This is particularly difficult and problematic, as there will be a greater shortage of medical personnel in hospitals and health homes; this is said to be a common problem. That is why I am calling for a broader debate at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly, and it would be worth supporting this by working together to come up with key solutions for this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u387	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. By way of derogation, Sieter will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u388	Good evening! Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Good evening, Minister. Our pension system isn't working. We have 243,000 people living under the risk of poverty in the country, and among these there are 90,000 pensioners. But, of course, the key is a miserablely low pension. Last year, 42% of all pensioners received a pension of less than 600 euros, which is not sufficient for survival or on the basis of the minimum cost of living. But while pensions are shamefully low, contributions to pension and disability insurance are not enough to pay them off. In order to cover the deficit of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, it is necessary to deduct a billion or sometimes more from the State budget each year. In the event of such deficits, it is absolutely necessary to do everything necessary to maintain the long-term sustainability of the public pension fund, which means, on the one hand, that we need to take measures which will provide additional funds to the pension fund and, on the other hand, to avoid measures which will unnecessarily exhaust the pension fund. But in the government, you're taking your measures in pension policy in a diametrically opposite direction. For example, while the so-called demographic fund is expected to deposit part of the dividends from its investments in the pension fund, it will not provide virtually any new funds for the pension fund. The budget will give up part of the dividends and leave them to the fund so that the fund will then be able to defuse the budget in financing the pension deficit, therefore the pension fund. From one pocket to another, according to your household. Then there's another measure, a social hat or I call it an antisocial cap. Above all, this anti-social cap comes with over €6,000 in salaries. With this measure, you will empty the pension and health allowance at the expense of the shameless tax breaks of that one percent of the richest. So the cap will serve to raise the salaries of the elite caste of managers, doctors, best-paid lawyers and so on and no one else. My question is, Minister: How much will the pension fund receive from the so-called demographic fund next year, and how much will it lose because of the introduction of this anti-social cap? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member Siter, thank you for the question. First of all, let me answer or say my thoughts about your first sentence when you said "the pension system doesn't work." The pension system's working. The pension system works by paying pensions each month, these pensions, of course, reflect to a certain extent how much the individual employee has paid into the pension register and how many years he has worked. As we know, someone at 15 years of age can already get a pension, so here we have very different cases. On the other hand, I agree that pensions have not been sufficiently coordinated in previous years and have not been coordinated by previous governments. We coordinate them much more than the previous governments, and to those who have the lowest pensions, we have already given two special supplements, covid supplements. So from this point of view, I don't think the pension system works, it doesn't hold and it doesn't hold that this government doesn't care about the pensioners. I mean, if any government cares so much about pensioners, then that government cares. Next thing you know, you say you're going to quit your pension fund. That's not true either. We're not gonna waste anything on the pension register. The pension box is stable, you yourself have mentioned that what is not sufficient to derive from the contributions is paid by the budget and will always pay them in fact. You ask me how much the so-called social or, some say, the development cap is going to be, as you would like, because it motivates and stimulates the part that stays here. According to calculations taking into account on the one hand a manoeuvring contribution, on the other hand an increase in income, an increase in financial impact also on corporate income tax or more on domestic income tax. This, of course, means that in the first year or the first period there will be 70 million manna. If we're talking about a simulation of the demographic income calculation, which you've been talking about, we can take a 5 per cent yield calculation simulation, we can take a percentage simulation of 8 per cent, and we can do all the calculations in the meantime. From this title, at 8%, for example, 40% of the accumulation of dividends is foreseen in the law, i.e. 69 million, almost 70 million, PPIZ also paid 70 million, policy for older people and youth 10 percent – 17 million, family policy 17 million. This is just the one for 2020 with an 8% return. Profitability, for example, was about 6 percent this year or in the previous year. If you want a 5% return, you can actually say with a 5% return – and even in this case, the actual return of the fund will be 429 million total. This is also available, we have already presented the yields from 2020 to 2069 across various ROEs many times. So there's no problem with that angle. I think I answered that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u392	Thank you very much. I'll translate the question, Minister. Tell me: What are the two measures — or are you talking about large numbers at some macro level, in the demographic fund notes and in the social indicators, or as you call it, the development caps — going to have pensioners and ordinary workers? Is the demographic fund actually going to make this possible on pensions? Can this be converted into a few euros higher pension for a lady who is now on 550 euros? Will workers have higher net earnings on minimum and average wages? Will this actually be translated into the TRR of a worker or pensioner? Because now at this point, what we see will be profited by the one percent of the richest who already have six thousand euros and more. They're going to profit a year or a month — I don't know the exact number — I think two thousand. Someone with 20,000 euros will make two thousand euros and profit. I want to know: How is this transferred to the personal account of a pensioner with a minimum pensioner with a minimum wage? That's the essence of the question, that's the essence of the demographic fund. If the operation of the demographic fund is not transferred to the rise of at least minimum pensions, then only the name of the demographic fund is misleading. My question is: How do these two measures translate into better pensions and better minimum wages?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u394	Thank you very much. No deceiving is such a thing. This is an additional source of stability for the pension system. This is an additional source to ensure that these pensions are stable and, of course, they will also be such heights as to reflect the past work of each pensioner. Of course, I do not exclude here, in fact I also include a social correction, which is essential. You just said here what effect this will have on the pensioner, what effect this will have on the minimum wage. These two things are so different that in fact the pensions of an individual or individuals depend on the height of the salary. That's how this system works, the Bismarck system, if you want. Of course, each pension depends also on how much contributions are made and how much time is actually paid. So the integration of the demographic fund in relation to the fact that it will now affect the minimum wage, the black people who work, pay, I think there is simply no link here to the minimum wage. The minimum wage will be increased because the well-being of everyone in this case will be greater, including because of the social cap or the development cap, because it will focus on activities that, if you want, have a higher added value that will stimulate those that bring higher added value. Thus, from this point of view, this system is completely transparent, completely clear. And given the demographic trends that are in Slovenia, which in other words means population ageing, which is also discussed by the OECD and other international institutions, of course this means additional security and additional stability of the pension system. Because it is predicted that in 2050 one worker will actually finance one pensioner due to demographic trends in Slovenia. This needs to be responded to and an additional resource needs to be provided. This is not a farce, it is the provision of additional resources for the stability of the pension system.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u396	Thank you very much. I will ask the National Assembly to hold the debate because, look, Vice-President, the minister has not answered the key question that I have asked him – how will this be known on pensions? First of all, before I serve a few final thoughts. The development cap won't increase the purchasing power. We know that tax exemptions are not usually translated into domestic consumption if an additional plus is created in the most powerful wallet and consequently does not affect the raising of the standard. It's such an economic waste. Now, here's the thing. The aim of all these measures, in particular those two, the Minister-designate, is only to exhaust the already underprivileged public pension funds. By establishing a demographic fund, I call it a quasi demographic fund because it does not serve a demographic purpose, don't worry about the pensioners, but about yourself. On the one hand you will establish control over ownership and management of state property, 8,6 billion dollars, you will get new levers for privatisation, interference with the supervisory boards of Slovenian companies, which is already a well-known practice in Slovenian politics, and you will by no means solve the problem of financing pensions, or, if I go a step further, still fighting poverty among pensioners who are the biggest victims of poverty. This antisocial cap or development cap, as you lovingly call it. With its introduction into the pension and health treasury you will actually drill the hole just because, once again, it will have one percent, and this is actually one percent of the population and residents of Slovenia – 17,000 I think that the number of people with the highest wages is 6 000 or more euros – even higher net wages. This is the objective of this measure. The other 99 per cent of the people will have nothing but damage to the state budget in the long term. Mr Vice-President, I ask the National Assembly to hold a broader debate on this subject at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u398	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I also welcome the Minister in these evening hours. My parliamentary question concerns the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, because this time is approaching, and in this respect culture is always one of the parade horses of every country that holds the presidency. The Ministry of Culture is expected to prepare in due time a strategic programme for the international promotion of Slovenian culture during the EU Presidency and to align the plans and action plan with the professional public, with all stakeholders in the field of culture, and to present all of this to the public. Slovenian culture is rich in excellence and is internationally recognised in Europe and enjoys a very high reputation elsewhere in the world. On the important occasion of the international promotion of Slovenian culture, which is not to be missed in any way, doubts arise as to how you, as a minister who sees a conflict in the field of culture and net conflicts with cultural creators and creators, will suppress independent culture and NGOs and will be called a non-cultural minister with a carefree cynical pishmevuhov relationship to culture. How are you in this situation, including in the situation of interpolation that awaits us tomorrow, how are you preparing for the Presidency of the European Union in this situation? Cultural initiatives have long been put on this topic, such as the promotion of contemporary Slovenian drama in the form of systematic financing of translations and translation. AS A result, the Ministry does not recognise the performance as an equivalent of the book’s publication, so the translation of the drama is not financed. Since Minister Prešič's time, some promises have been made that the matter will be realized as part of the preparations for the EU Presidency, when a large number of events will be listed, where Slovenian art can be presented to the public, but as a minister, you have not continued your dialogue on this project. In short, you are planning greater investments and protection of cultural heritage, which will also take place during the presidency, including those that were not in the programme, for example, this Museum of Slovenian Independence. In addition to the experts, public perceptions of the usefulness of setting up new public institutions in times of crisis have also been echoed when most of these institutions are operating in very poor conditions. That's why I'm asking you: Is there a cultural promotion programme and what is the national strategy for the presidency? What investments will be part of this promotion, which cultural projects will take place during the EU Presidency and not least in Frankfurt 2023? What you have done so far with regard to the promotion of Slovenian culture during the presidency and which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u400	Thank you very much. Given the evidence made by the Member of Parliament that I am tearing up culture and that I have a nickname for an uncultured minister, of course she cannot expect anything special from me. Given that she knows, of course, what a great reputation this is in the world, which culture has and has a great international reputation, and that she knows all the things that the Presidency has so far strongly established in recent years, in the last three years, I am convinced that she can list at least 10 extraordinary events that have marked and marked the world and European public with the extravagant things presented by each Presidency. I have no doubt about it, because it is so sovereign to give labels to me, it means that it values itself highly and that it knows exactly all these things that I said, and I would be happy if, in addition to measuring, it could list five things that Portugal or Germany presented last year. That would be, say, something like that. Otherwise, we have a very clear program that is designed. It consists of five matters prepared by the Ministry of Culture. They were also prepared by some other ministries, which also concern culture. Of course, these are carefully thought out, chosen, agreed upon, and all procedures are under way. So a group that is coordinating at government level has confirmed these issues and put them into the agenda of this Presidency. It is true that we want a 30-year-old country in which we are proud and, of course, we think that this is a one-time act in history that we have gained our country. Of course, there will also be a lot of running according to this 30-year-old mark of our great and dear Slovenian country. However, there will be some events that will emerge and will also address the wider crowd or the public in Slovenia itself, because we believe that it is necessary to promote this Presidency in our country and to encourage the awareness of Slovenia and of Slovenian citizens and citizens that we belong to the European Union. For in Europe, if we were to represent, say, our events in Brussels or elsewhere – because we will, but not to such a large extent – I do not think that we would have a special reverberation at this point, because those capitals would also be in these moments – for example, Brussels is full of these events. However, it must be said that there is one major obstacle, which is covid-19, of course we do not know how long it will be up to in this sense, that it threatens us with certain limitations, which are likely to remain at the forefront of this epidemic at the third wave. One of these things is that we have already been cancelled in Brussels for the month of September due to the fact that we have been warned at one of the famous centres in Brussels that September 8th is still at a time when they do not know how to deal with this fellow. We too will wait until April 15, 20. Then we will see what we will do or whether we will stop or not, because there are some things that require certain pre-preparation and, of course, we will have to do these things that, if the epidemic threatens to a greater extent – let us say, if it does not calm down or even grow up – probably prevent these events in the cultural field. And what remains will be the political agenda and commitments that the state, the Government, the President of the Government, must carry out. It may be that a culture may also be lacking if the disease progresses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u402	Mr. Secretary, you spoke so well, and you didn't say anything. You said that I was terrible, that I had no idea that I was the minister here who wondered what Portugal had done. And I'm not talking about me, Minister, you've shown again that you have a cynical, written attitude towards everything, to Members, to culture, to culture, to culture, to culture. This is when you say I'm giving you some of the obvious – it's not true! I asked you what you've done and what you're going to do, like you are, and it's not obvious, it's going to be the day after tomorrow. Wait a minute! Brussels is saturated with these events, you said, but you are already planning the third wave I specifically ask you! [[…]] All ministers and ministers must plan their international activities, especially during co-vid's time, of course. And cooperation, and official visits, and visiting abroad. I would ask you to give us a list of your future duties abroad – if you allow me to ask you if we can ask – in connection with the promotion of culture during the Presidency of the European Union, your work plan, the timetable, the estimated number and type of events and whether you will really continue as you are now, even in Brussels, but we will see what happens. You're probably going to get away with a mistrust based on the number, but let's hope not. In short, I want to know: What will you do, in particular, with whom you will meet, and what kind of promotion and timetable are you planning? That's what I'm asking you, that's all. And you're just proving that I'm right to see that you're obviously incapable of answering one normal question. Surprise me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u404	When I listen to you, it makes me uncomfortable with such a brilliant and deep woman, full of deep thoughts and extraordinary qualities, who couldn't list one thing about how much she bragged about, what was important to the world, and what was the international reputation, she couldn't even list one thing of the previous countries that had presided. You were saying, of course, that I was talking about you. Of course, I was talking about you because you were talking about me, and this is going to be a very clear magnetogram. But given your attitude, which is nicely said strange, and I feel terribly uncomfortable with you, but I'm glad you said that if you can ask me. However, one of the two words was a little more polite, and I must tell you that we have a programme that is ready, satisfying, comprehensive, well-confirmed, and we will also carry it out to the extent that it will be proud and confirmed by our country at this time, just as we have imagined, and that they have also confirmed it on a wide scale. Yeah. Or let me tell you now, I can tell you, we have some cultural events: three cultural events, some conferences. Of course, it is logical to also meet with our pandas abroad and other cultural people will meet. I think there will be an emphasis, if this disease is not to that extent, on it must be counted. It's not about predicting, but responsible people need to be aware of some real things, but some of you don't realize it, and we see it, watch it, and we'll do it. It's all confirmed, arranged, in the circles responsible for it. Of course, when you appropriately ask, politely and less cynically, and with the instigation and some feelings that make people try to put on a level, to insult or humiliate — which you cannot because you have to have the same level as I do, but you don't have it. That's why I'm going to tell you what you want to know some other time, but you can have it. This program is clear, well known and also available to everyone who wants to see it, and I hope that you will attend to some things.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u406	Thank you for your word. Yes, I'm asking for this program. Yes, because it is intended to be accessible to the Committee on Culture in particular, it considers itself president of the Committee on Culture, and you cannot, Minister, act that way, because I am elected. You can't act like this. You can because you're self-indulgent, cynical, selfish, and rude. I ask you for this programme, I want to see it and consider it on the Committee on Culture – if you please. I am very pleased, however, that you have three cultural events, some conferences and some meetings. I'm specifically interested in: What cultural creators will cooperate, what program will they participate in, what kind of arrangements are you in? [[background advertising]] I'm turning to you now and don't be, Minister, rude [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u407	Rules of Procedure [[…]] [[…]] [[talk at the same time]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u408	I'm so glad you're feeling very uncomfortable in my company, you didn't last three minutes. [[…]] [[background advertising]] I'm glad, because 18 hours of interpolation, Minister, is waiting for you and I expect you to sit in here and not go out. But if you need anything to make it easier for you to sit down, we'll make sure they help you. Please, the Minister's attitude is indeed unworthy and unacceptable, and I ask that this be discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u409	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote. Natasa Sukič will ask the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u410	Thank you very much, chairman. The Minister, a number of self-employed people in culture, paid by the State for social security contributions, has excited the news that these contributions have already been added to the tax base, despite the Regulation on Self-employed in Culture, which clearly provides in Article 12 that social security contributions paid by the State are exempt from the price. This will no longer be possible or possible if they are now added to the tax base. If this is true, it will actually cause very serious problems for so-called standardizers. You know, I'm talking about about about 2,000 artists, creators, cultural workers, cultural workers. The first consequence is that these self-employed will, of course, have to pay more income for the previous year due to a higher tax base, which they also attach to Furs. The second, even greater danger is that change could cause complications in the calculation of censorship, because we know that self-employed people are entitled to the payment of contributions from the budget only if their annual income does not exceed a certain amount, I think there is little below EUR 20 000 gross, now I have no exact last data, there is about EUR 20 000. We are witnessing a complete non-conformity of interpretation on the one hand by Furs and the current Article 12 of the Regulation. I would point out the consequences for many that they will no longer be eligible to pay contributions if they exceed the price, they may even have to pay back the funds already received, without being informed in time of this change. If this is true, then it would mean the planned destruction of culture and the destruction of cultural workers and workers. Moreover, the Minister, re-regulation without anyone having previously regulated the legal basis and informed the target public of these changes, i.e. the self-employed in the culture concerned, is not legally sustainable. And I ask you, Minister: What's really going on? At a time when we know that independent workers in culture are already on the verge of despair and survival, even the performing sector, because there are no performances or concerts due to the epidemiological situation. As a minister, we should actually help these creators with reliefs, not that there are some new incomes that actually work for the self-employed in culture. Why don't you even these self-employed people in culture, like the hospital stock status, with other employees in the Republic of Slovenia? That would be very helpful. Or can you explain to me how you can claim something back without this being announced? Because if it is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u412	Madam Member, you are talking about some things, if that is true, and you do not know that the regulation has been adopted or a new tax burden, whether it is accepted or not. No, wait, is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u413	Please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u414	Yeah, good. I'm answering you. So your question shows you're making assumptions, so that's how I understood. I may be wrong as to what it is, but it probably isn't. As far as I am aware, the Regulation on self-employed persons in culture has not changed in any way. As has been the case, it is precisely stated that when checking the income price, the social security mandatory contributions paid by the self-employed shall not be taken into account, nor shall the contributions paid from the State budget. The point is that no income has been paid from the contributions and no payments will be paid and no change will be made. If it were to come to what you are saying, that this price, which is 22 000 €51, and to include 4 000 €800 in the income, to simplify it, that 25 000 € would be and to pay the income out of it, that is to say, from the contributions, that would be around €190, but that will not be the case. He won't! So nothing's changed about what you asked me. That's my assurance. This assurance was given to me by those involved in financial matters, so the assurance was given to me by my financial service, although, in the first place, this issue is really more of a matter of taxation and so on or for those financial services responsible for it, the Slovenian Institute for some audit and similar things. So, the fundamental thing is, or the message is, that this law or this obligation, which would further burden the self-employed, is not adopted and will not be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u415	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u416	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for this explanation, Minister. I'm glad it won't be accepted. But the only problem we have is that Furs understands it a little differently, but he's already sending these bills and clearing the income. And now, if you ever charge that income that way, then I don't know, there's a discrepancy between this regulation and Furs's action. Then, somehow, after some automaticity, this could jeopardize censorship. So, then you should raise the price for these 4,000 800s. Basically, we hold you to your word that at least censorship will not be compromised. However, the problem may be that due to the inclusion of these contributions into the tax base in the previous year – what Furs is doing at the moment – Furs is said to have to be regulated – for about EUR 5,000 higher income. Could this also mean, inter alia, that they would no longer be entitled to the crisis base income, even though they had all the conditions for it at the time of their application? That's what I'm interested in. You'll also tell me that maybe you have nothing to do with it, but Furs has something to do with it. But still, this will have to be coordinated. So that people don't even return, let's say 4 000 euros in state aid. Can you explain this to me as well? So if it doesn't touch censorship, then I guess it doesn't. I hope not. I also ask you: How are you and Furs gonna handle this so there won't be any such absurd discrepancies? There's something not right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u417	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u418	Ma'am, you said he was already sending Furs around. I have to say, I don't know. I'm not aware of that. I told you what I told you, very clearly and decisively. Before that, Mr. Minister of Finance, whom I had also asked about this very thing once again, for example, about this censorship and about this income tax of 5,000, he also confirmed to me that it was not. Right now, I can't tell you anything more than what I said. I think it expresses the fact that things remain unchanged. That was my answer. How am I gonna deal with this? When it comes to me, or when we probably coordinate it, or on the government, or on certain committees, or when the professional services talk about it, I believe that I will be informed, and of course we will see how and what. At this point, I don't think any changes to the harm of self-employed people are appropriate. And not just now that they're not appropriate, because that's a condition we can't make worse, so let's keep it that way. I can answer that for you right now. I don't know how to answer you better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u419	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal that the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u420	I have a procedural proposal to make a conversation, perhaps in a slightly broader sense, Minister. Because I hope you've given assurances now, and I'm glad it'll calm people down. Because you know very well that it's been quite written in the media lately because Furs has upset with these demands. Then things get vague, because I told you why. But that's not the only problem with self-employed people. We know well that they are in a difficult situation, and as I have already suggested to you, let's say it would be easy to manage their hospital stock slowly, after all, you are paying contributions as self-employed. I've been self-employed myself, and I know what it means to be sick for 30 days or 31 to just start running sick, but you can be very sick, and then you can't work and when you can't work, of course you can't earn anything. Now there are 61 different professions among self-employed people in culture. We also know that they include archaeologist, architect, archivist, librarian, art historian, galleryr, cultural heritage interpreter, curator, conservative, restorer, translator, galleryr, editor, cinema operator; in short, a very wide range of professions. So maybe, Minister, it's really time for someone at the Ministry, but now you're the minister, to really devote yourself to all these people, to all these professions to protect them, not to slowly, I mean, really live, even in this crisis. From some of your statements in the past, I must say that it has been noted that you want to sharpen the criteria for the right to pay for the contributions of independent artists. This is, say, something that brings discomfort, unrest, who are these creators now. How will you now value the work of these top creators, artists, other cultural workers? Somehow there's a feeling, maybe we're wrong, but there's a way you can look at them in the ranks of some minimum wage. However, it is important to ask whether other people who are supreme in the country, such as scientists, researchers working for the benefit of this country, as well as culturers and artists, are perceived in this sense. After all, Minister, you don't work for a minimum wage either, and your secretaries don't. I therefore point out that once and for all it is necessary to deal more seriously with the situation in culture, with the situation of these people, and that is why some serious debate, some strategic joint reflection, and here, however, the National Assembly could be of assistance to you. Finally, there are many of us who come from the cultural sector and we get to know these things a little. This is my procedural proposal and I ask you to put it to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-22-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u421	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I thank the Ministers, Ministers and Acting Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I also interrupt the 67th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
