ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 92nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Janja Slug, Yuri Lepo, Marjan Sarec, Matjaž Nemec, Mag. Bojana Muršič, Matjaž Han, Jani Prednik, Predrag Baković, Samo Bevk, Gregor Židan, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Alenka Bratusek, mag. Branislav Rajić, Masha Kociper, Marko Bandelli, Mag. Andrej Reich, Franc Jurša, Andrei Zabret, Robert Pavšč, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Luka Mesec, Violeta Tomić, Primož Siter and Miha Kordiš. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 92nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, 29 December, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda when it has received a reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 12. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the agenda of the 92nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say the motion for a decision on the non-admissibility of a legal referendum on the law on additional measures to prevent proliferation, omitance, control, recovery and follow-up of the Chadian-19. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal for a decision, I shall give the representative of the Government of Mags. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 91st extraordinary meeting on 27 December 2021, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Act on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and recovery of the consequences of COVID-19. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed to the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative, the adoption of a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on additional measures to prevent the spread, pardon, control, recovery and recovery of the consequences of COVID-19. The first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures in order to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In accordance with the provisions of Article 21a(1) of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the National Assembly, acting on a proposal from the Government, shall adopt a decision establishing that the referendum shall not be admissible because it is an emergency measure to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters, as soon as seven days after the adoption of the law. It is also conditioned that the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decides not to require the National Assembly to rule on the law before the law is declared. Today, 29 December, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia adopted such a decision at the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the second point of Article 8 of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, a mass outbreak of communicable disease is also considered a natural disaster. Data on the number of people in Slovenia infected with covida-19 infectious disease and the employment of hospital capacity with patients with communicable disease clearly indicate that there has been a mass outbreak of infectious disease and therefore the condition of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents has been fulfilled. The law lays down additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and elimination of the effects of covida-19 on health, work, social protection and the economy. It is therefore necessary to ensure, as soon as possible, effective measures to facilitate or bridge the spread of the communicable disease for the widest possible range of beneficiaries. The measures taken by the State to limit the effects of the spread of covida-19 disease must be effective and their implementation must be swift. On the basis of the foregoing, I call on the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to conclude that the Act on additional measures to prevent the proliferation, easing, control, recovery and recovery of the consequences of COVID-19 refers to the content in respect of which, in accordance with the first indent of the second indent of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a call for a legislative referendum is not admissible, as it constitutes a law of urgency to ensure that the consequences of natural disasters are remedied within the meaning of the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and others present! With a view to ensuring a legal basis for the speedy implementation of the Law on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and elimination of the consequences of the COVID-19, we are once again faced with a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. Everything's fine and fine. If the government had not, as has been the case so far regularly, included in the intervention proposal legal provisions which have nothing to do with couid-19 and which have a grave impact on system law. And for these provisions, you intend to vote for these underlings today to exclude the right to a legislative referendum. In fact, it is a matter of bypassing the law and the grave abuse of the purpose and legal arrangements of the referendum. Really bad. While we support some of the solutions in the law, which are not well thought out, however, necessary and useful. In connection with the covida-19 epidemic. We underline in particular the solidarity allowance for the most vulnerable pensioners and the extension of tourist vouchers. However, the law does not cover completely inappropriate provisions, which have been overtaken by the name of the defendants. Among these is the most obvious increase in wages for those doctors who have been paid the most so far. Not only did you miss the young doctors and the less paid ones, but you tear down the single wage system in the public sector, which will have chain consequences and long-term conflicts, discontent and unrest. This has made it clear what your real priorities are, rather than providing assistance to those who really need it. The way in which the law is adopted without social dialogue, without public debate, without the participation of the wider profession in the background shows a great lack and a lack of confidence in a democratic political culture. That's terrible. Once again, the current authority over the rule of law, the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, and even the Constitution — has proved to be over all of this. The law, which could easily be referred to as the 10th SDS government's ziff, included a whole bunch of amendments by the coalition, as well as something by the democratic opposition. Despite warnings by the ZPS that 75 amendments have been tabled in non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure, you have dealt with them and accepted them. In the SAB Group, together with the democratic opposition, where, of course, we do not consider the opposition holding this minority government, with this coalition having only 38 votes, in a parliamentary practice that is arrogantly violating all democratic rules and standards, we did not want to participate, so we obstructed the committee's meeting. Because of the way in which this government operates, which caused the epidemic on all fronts, we opposed the 10th anti-Korona package in the SAB. Despite your calls for participation, none of our proposals so far to improve the bill you wanted to hear. Consequently, the restrictive measures did not have and cannot have the desired and appropriate results. Public health burns through stitches, the number of deaths relative to the number of inhabitants is so high that we are at the top of the world. These are the facts that tell us everything. The SDS government has taken up matters for the smoke screen of covida-19 that are not necessary or necessary to solve the epidemic and the health crisis. For all the reasons listed in the SAB, we do not support the decision on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u6	Mr President, representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have recently adopted the 10th package of measures to mitigate and remedy the effects of the covida-19 epidemic. In the country we currently have about 16 thousand 500 active covid infections, and in recent days the average number of new infections has increased again over a thousand daily and about 200 people are on intensive treatment. The pressure on public health has been excessive in recent months. The figures show that there is still a need for action by the State in terms of the simultaneous protection of public health and assistance to the population and the economy. The Act on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and recovery of the consequences of COVID-19, also referred to as the CAP10, in addition to all measures taken so far, further mitigates and eliminates the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic. The measures are therefore targeted and cover a number of areas of social life and economic activity. The law introduces, inter alia, measures such as: solidarity allowance for vulnerable groups to improve their social situation, exposure allowance for members of the security, rescue and relief forces, assistance for the purchase of antigenous rapid self-testing tests, additional funding for family support programmes, the establishment of a legal basis for the extension of the validity of tourist vouchers, and monetary compensation for persons who have suffered health damage by vaccination against covidu-19, which is reflected in a serious and permanent reduction of their life functions. Of course, there is much more to the measure, and everyone responds to the situation that has arisen as a result of the natural disaster, as also defined by the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. In our case, such a mass outbreak of contagious covid-19 disease is a natural disaster that has affected our lives for almost two years. The intervention law we passed two days ago needs our citizens. The consequences caused by the congested virus will be felt for quite some time. The task of the State and our decision makers is to mitigate these consequences as quickly as possible and to ensure that all social subsystems are reinvigorated to the fullest extent possible and that all necessary activities are reinvigorated in order to return to the situation ahead of the covid. As indicated in the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the referendum is not allowed to discuss the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, and on the basis of all the above-mentioned proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the so-called 10th anti-korona package in our sent group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the Republic of Slovenia, on 4 March last year we recorded the first officially registered infection with the new crown virus. On 12 March, the epidemic was declared; on 18 March, we had already adopted the first intervention measures in various areas and only two weeks later, on 1 April, also the first anti-Korona package to contain the epidemic and mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy. Discussions and adoption of specific anti-Korona laws followed; by the end of 2020, there were seven more and two more in February and July this year. The current tenth anti-Korona package is now just before adoption. Whether it will end the country's intervention in the crisis cannot be predicted. It is indeed important to note that each of the anti-Korona laws reflects an exceptional situation, a reflection of the management of the situation and a long-term reduction of harmful consequences. The path to hell is pressed with good intentions. The expression is often used as a cautionary warning that good intentions may also have adverse consequences. At the time of the epidemic, the contention that the referendum is the best democratic means of decision-making is being maintained quietly and undetected without any criticism. The referendum is a means of expressing the will of the electorate, which cannot be ruled out in any way, but it is entirely problematic to increase the referendum as a top decision-making method. The position on the referendum and its admissibility and usefulness depends on the circumstances in time and space. Representative democracy has its weaknesses, political parties are oligarchised and the origin of negative selection, its institutions are weak, but the widespread use of the referendum is neither a cure nor a substitute for this condition. The essence of democracy is not in the vote, but in the debate. The vote has already been put in place as part of the democratic decision-making process. When a thorough debate is held on the matter, it is only then necessary to vote. A system that allows voters to vote either yes or no or against would institutionalise a principle that is hostile to the ideal of democracy as a debate. Democracy is, in fact, a polyarchy in which relations between the majority and the minority change according to the ratios of time and relative to the urgency of open cases. The 10th Anti-Korona Act is a combination of health protection measures and measures designed to help individuals and businesses. It is also a combination of extending the measures already in force and introducing some new ones. The determination of reparations to those beneficiaries who have been vaccinated and who have suffered harm to their health is an important novelty. The period of validity of the redemption of tourist vouchers and the possibility of using annual leave for 2020 and 2021 and the range of measures that benefit individuals shall be extended. Direct assistance to businesses and individuals is reflected in the additions to exposure, danger and special burdens for voluntary and non-professional members of the security and rescue force, in the allowances for students and students who help care for patients in health or social welfare institutions, in the assistance of the purchase of rapid self-testing tests and in the partial recovery of the lost income for self-employed, business persons and farmers. The aim is to have more than 40 different measures in law. Members of the Desus Group have already drawn attention to the importance of the greatest of them, accounting for 30% of the overall financial consequences of the law. We are exposing the solidarity allowance for pensioners at three different levels at a total value of €80 million. Such a complex law and its provisions cannot be decided only by simple for or against, so the Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The government of Janez Janša has designed and proposed, and the National Assembly has adopted the tenth anti-Korona package this Monday, aimed at easing the consequences and impact of the epidemic on the population and the economy. You could say covid-19 is not only a threat to health, but it is also a threat to the economy, the economy and the most vulnerable groups. It is essential and essential that the law enters into force as soon as possible and that the measures already taken in the CAP10 come to the attention of the people who are also intended for them as soon as possible. Let me point out just a few of these measures. The solidarity allowance for pensioners who receive a pension of up to 523, will amount to EUR 300. Pensioners who receive a pension of between €523 and €628 will receive an allowance of €230. Pensioners who receive a pension of between €628 and €732 will receive an allowance of €130. The solidarity allowance will also be paid for particularly vulnerable groups of €150. A single solidarity allowance to improve the situation will also be given to persons over 65 years of age who have not received an allowance as pensioners and to carriers or farm members. With CAP10, we have also extended the validity of the tourist voucher issued in 2020. We have taken a number of measures in the field of education and health. Among other things, the measure is extended for 3 days without a medical certificate. It is important to stress that we have withdrawn all the provisions relating to the Law on Infectious Diseases in the course of the adoption of the CAP10. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that the most important thing at this time is to adopt the 10th anti-Korona package, with which we will help the most vulnerable citizens and citizens and preserve the functioning economy, comes into force as soon as possible. Therefore, the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum on the CAP10 will be unanimously supported. At this point, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish you, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the best possible transition to the new year and all good in 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u12	Well, we're where we actually started with the first package, that's with the illegal operation of this government and the coalition that creates a minority. Years ago we changed the Constitution and the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative with one simple purpose and reason, that is to limit the referendum only when the Constitution says so. This is in three cases: when it comes to the protection of constitutional order, the security of the state and the people and property. There must be other preconditions for this. Today everyone is referring, as one of my predecessors said, to the fact that we have a natural disaster. Is this government, has this coalition declared an epidemic together? No, we don't. It's clear why not. But at the same time, we want to act like we have it. And it works past the laws, past the constitution, and threatens essentially the institution that this coalition has in the past, for the first time, most of the time, it has been used and also most often referred to it, with one purpose, czech, the voice of the people must be clear and must be reflected even when politics thinks that everything has already been decided. In this case, this does not apply to them. It is more than clear that this law, which we are deciding today whether voters can go to the referendum or not, has very little to do with what they are talking about, and that is with the crisis. The Chairman of the Finance Committee himself made it clear that 75% of all amendments had nothing to do with this law and that, by definition, if he followed the rules of procedure, he would have to exclude them. Today he swallows the word and foretells it as the most saving. But it's nothing new, we're used to it. This coalition is only fooling itself, not us. And they have no reservations about it. More importantly, this coalition has at the last minute brought into this law with certain amendments certain changes that further discuss the illegality of such action. What is even more important is, and we must remember this for all eternity, the government of Janez Janša, along with the coalition, is doing at least two things that are very clear and obvious. The first is the complete dismantling and decommissioning of the public financial system with one purpose: to prevent the next government from having a headache, how it will solve the problem. They're aware of it, and they're doing it on purpose. Another problem and purpose for them to do so is, in fact, to buy electoral votes. This is not about PKP10, but about the gift package to people, thinking it's the most normal thing to just share. The easiest thing to do is to share money. Where and how we will solve the problems after April 24, when it is clear who will lead the government and make up this Parliament, and it is more than clear that at that time we will suddenly find that we have empty bags and that these Santa Clauses and Santa Clauses were not really there, they will be quiet. They're going to lay low as the greatest hideouts under that definition, and, look at the fraction, I'm sure within six months they're going to organise what they're banning today: a referendum. Therefore, we will not support such a proposal in the LMŠ Group of Members, because it is one of the most divisive and debilitating acts against the electorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u14	Your Honor! Within twenty months, the National Assembly has adopted the 10th so-called Pekapa, an intervention law on a proposal from the Government, the reason for which is the coronary epidemic, and the content of a set of extremely different solutions, which are linked only to the government's claim that all are in line of necessity due to the epidemic. This should be sufficient reason both for their immediate application and for the prohibition of a referendum, which the Constitution allows only in cases of urgent and urgent measures for the security and defence of the State and at the level of accidents, in the case of tax laws, the budget, the adoption of international treaties, and in the event of an end to human rights violations. Since the adoption of the first such package, we have made it clear that we are concerned about the provisions that go beyond the constitutional framework of the intervention law and the business framework of the emergency procedure, the excessive repressive powers and a series of permanent interventions to other areas, labour rights, standards of environmental protection, safe construction and so on, which have also been repeated in previous packages of this kind and have been overtaken by the name of the plant. In the first weeks and months after the outbreak, which we have not seen in this part of the world in recent decades, such a legislative approach could still be understood. We're not prepared enough to face the unseen. But the authorities insisted through new and new packages. Once again, she hid corruption services for her friends under the aid measures and inspired solutions that could only be linked to the epidemic by a imaginative imagination. In the 10th attempt, the rulings used the procedure this time. If at least so far they have insisted on the solutions proposed by the government, they have now added new ones to the process and thus completely overturned the substance of the parliamentary procedure. Even in the tenth attempt, we don't know what the PKP stands for. No name, no law shortcut doesn't contain it. How should citizens understand the extent of their rights and duties when the government itself is unable to follow the opaque set of rules and exceptions it introduces? The government insists on all difficulties to ignore the identified shortcomings of the roof regime and to introduce a new bureaucratic confusion through package modification, which cannot be mitigated by any law on debirocratisation. Only the consecrated can find themselves in this mess of improvements, clientelism and plantation. The rule of law is turning into something else in front of our eyes. The democratic state increasingly intervenes to restrict people's right to co-decision. Striked solutions, however, are increasingly undermining stable order and increasing inequality in a country that is constitutionally social. The fact that the adoption of laws is not easy and not fast is the basis of a rule of law and a democratic state. No one has unlimited authority and judicial protection is provided against any official or arbitrary act. Because the people are power and power is shared, we cannot easily take away the last word about whether the law should be enforced. That is why things are changing slower in a democratic country. Decisions and laws in court may therefore be repealed. Therefore, administrative and other procedures are often complex because they must take account of many stakeholders and interests. All of these are values, not a lack of democracy, but a guarantee that the rules will not change quickly, recklessly and arbitrarily so that the decision of the ruling minority does not change into tyranny of will. In a legal and democratic country, we expect people not to be bothered by the authorities by legal bricks that cannot be understood or complained about. However, we expect the social state to first help those most difficult to deal with, but not again and again, pay elites. At the moment, however, nothing goes on the nerves of the ruling one more than these elements of the rule of law, democratic and social state. The decisions of the courts and the division of power are left to them the rest of the old system and the taxes and legality of the bureaucratic obstacles, while critics of the content of the proceedings are lazy and paraphrasing. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not see any reason in all the understated solutions to the adopted law that would limit people's right to democratic co-decision, so we will be opposed to the decision on the non-admissibility of the referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u16	Your Honor, thank you very much. This government of Janez Janša takes us citizens and citizens, the people, once again, and this for the decade, takes the right to a referendum, which is a constitutional right. If we include our proposal for a referendum against the purchase of weapons for EUR 780 million, the actual number is even larger. It is only necessary to ask why this government of John Janša is so afraid of referendums. The answer is simple: because he fears the people he fears, his government at the July 11th referendum on the Water Act made it clear that he does not support the actions he and his government perform. It means he's working against people, against nature and against animals. The percentage also made it clear that 87% of citizens and citizens have made it clear that governments do not wish to do so or want this government to be replaced as soon as possible. In this PKP proposal, which was recently discussed a few days ago, this solidarity allowance was also for pensioners, and the Minister for Infrastructure said very unfortunately that this solidarity allowance was intended for pensioners to pay these extremely high heating and electricity bills, which is unacceptable. Given that we have pensioners, who are in fact the largest group of people and people living below the poverty line, about 97 thousand of them, such a statement actually discredits pensioners and pensioners. This solidarity aid should also be higher, not just to pay the bills, but to all the other funds, because, unfortunately, pensioners and pensioners are poor and there are always more who are poor or at the edge of society. When a pensioner thinks about it, he thinks about paying bills, like everyone else, only then, regrettably, whether he can afford food or not. Also, this second proposal in the PKP, which has aroused a lot of interest in raising wages for doctors and doctors, has actually been a very skilled manoeuvre, which has, frankly, blurred the space for not making it clear that young doctors, who have already negotiated on the ground, have been released from this raise of wages, but unfortunately have not been negotiated because, according to the household, they have been driven by thirst through the water. Once again, the government and also the coalition MPs should first take care of the weakest and the poorest in all of these past bakeries. Again, in Slovenia we have about 260 000 people and people living below the poverty line, 41,000 of whom are children, 46,000 are working and 38 000 are unemployed. If we include the pensioners and pensioners mentioned earlier, the number is alarming. We should always start helping those at the bottom or the edge, not those who are on top or who are already provided with a better chance of survival and life. In Levika we will vote against people being banned again, and this is the tenth time that the referendum has been banned. In the end, I will just say that what this government and the Prime Minister are doing is shame, shame, shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u18	Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! On Monday we adopted measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to mitigate the consequences of the coronavirus. Tired, also impatient and exhausted because of the epidemic, we now yearn more than ever for connection. People are social and social beings, so social isolation is difficult to accept, but our view must be different this time. It is not our decision about our health, but also the health of the people around us, not only of our loved ones, but of all the communities we belong to. Our personal decisions also have an impact on the duration of the social stalemate. As a result, our decisions affect the work of health workers and their overload, and ultimately the number of beds available and related interventions that save human lives. We live in a society that values human life as the highest value. This means that protection of lives is more important to us than, for example, the right to freedom of movement or the right to gather and unite. In this spirit, at the time of the pandemic, we subjected all aspects of public life to the protection of the health of our community. Article 17 of the Constitution provides that human life is untouchable. 42nd Article of the Constitution, however, gives us the right and freedom to gather and unite. However, this right is limited if this requires state security or public security and protection against the spread of communicable diseases. When new diseases occur, the behavior of pathogens, the disease itself, and its consequences are often a puzzle. That's the case with covida-19. The 10th anti-Korona package brings assistance to people and the economy. Among other things, it helps the most vulnerable groups of our society. The proposal brings a supplement to the risk exposure and a specific burden for voluntary and non-professional members of the security and rescue forces. We have not forgotten the permanent unemployed who will receive a 150-euro solidarity allowance. Assistance for families for newborns amounting to EUR 500 shall be extended until 30 June 2023. We didn't forget about the disabled, we didn't forget about the retired. The CAP10, which is financially valued at around €280 million, provides assistance to some 300,000 citizens and the citizens most in need. We have not forgotten economic policy measures. We are extending the period of use of tourist vouchers. However, we regret the problem of raising wages for doctors. The law does not even provide for a raise in the salaries of doctors, it only provides for a negotiating framework. In New Slovenia, we expect that young doctors will not be overlooked during the negotiation phase. Speaking of PKP10 as a new buzzer is simply misleading. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters, to which we may also consider the rapid spread of covida-19 disease. When we weigh between the right of the referendum on the one hand and the fate of the people on the other, this time we need to weigh the benefits of helping our citizens in these times of crisis. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – we welcome the decision of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, to determine that the referendum is not admissible. Not because we don't want a referendum, but because we want help to come to individuals and businesses as soon as possible. Every day would be too long in those days. The proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum will be supported by Christian Democrats in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The word has Lidija Divac Mirnik, prepares Jani Möderndorfer and then Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm glad you're going to fight us today, considering you're not on RTV for the last time. Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u21	Colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik, get to the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u22	Yeah, absolutely. This government has fallen in communication on the first day. You know why? Because the communication of this government is arrogant, disrespectful, cynical, inappropriate, frightening, humiliating, because people are afraid every day because they are plagued by the plague because we pour them with tear gas and because they are being punished. You know what else is missing? Yeah, you're gonna lock us in jail. That's the next phase. What is the proposal of the LMŠ to this government? The suggestion is that you communicate respectfully and respectfully for a start, because then what you want to tell people every day will work. The question here today is who you're afraid of. Who are you afraid of? Are you afraid of people or are you afraid of those who write to us every day and who wrote in thousands for PKP 10? Is that what you're afraid of? You're afraid of your people. You're ashamed of yourself. The paradox of the whole story is that this government, when it does all this and communicates in the way it communicates, doesn't see itself and see its ministers. So-called walking affairs on two legs, almost all of them. What exactly is happening to all that we can watch in a year and a half now? Slowly, slowly, you're introducing nothing but fascism in multiple images. Let's just remember these pictures. We recently received that famous letter from the Prime Minister, where he wrote to us that we were respected and asked for something. Now I'm sure a million and a half, as far as the mail was concerned, was thrown away because of that letter that no one went to the hospital. But he must have achieved something else. If it is, we'll see. But it's a paradox again. He writes to us with respect, but at the same time he humiliates us with his own tweets. And I'm not gonna say that every day, at least once a week for sure. Even if we can monitor on the tracker how much time he actually spends on Twitter. Then another such picture is that famous speech at the national celebration a few days ago, where he spoke of the joy of the galaxies. I had a feeling that he really lived in his world because he also lived in his world. Two days ago, you completely subordinated the public media and threw the opposition out of the programme and control council, although the law makes it very clear how the matter must stand. But of course you don't care. That was the next picture. Today we witness the next picture. This is a no-referendum. Is that the final solution? A man feels like he's watching some kind of documentary about Nazis. You know, today is a very simple question here, whether you press for freedom or press for fascism. You will, of course, decide on your own conscience. President, I respectfully ask that colleagues, if they can't or can't get out, I just want to say what I have to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u23	Look, we're deciding about the referendum, whether we let it happen or not. I propose that you stick to this debate, too, so that we do not go too far.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u24	It would be nice if you stopped the time when you were talking. Without a public debate, exactly what we are deciding today, without a profession, without a dialogue, and then you want to sell us so that it would be nice for us to participate in these Christmas times because it is appropriate. Yeah, of course it's decent, just be decent to hear those who think or think differently from you. If you truly believed in these laws that you have adopted and that you have spoken so highly of today, then you would allow a referendum and allow people to say what they actually think they should say about this PKP10. Not to mention how many e-mails we got. But of course you don't care. Now it's just for closure, because time is running out. April 2022 will be a key issue for people. People will have to answer very simply whether they are for freedom or not for freedom. And then it's imperative that everyone goes to the polls and choose their freedom. Since we are in favour of freedom in LMŠ, today we will also vote against preaching the referendum to people, even though the constitution says they have the right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u26	Dear President, I ask you to stop this arrogant ridicule on the right when it comes to it. Regardless of what anyone is discussing and if we agree or disagree. It's just too big. I understand that they are on their wings, that they are now in full swing, because apparently the National Assembly is breaking down and nothing is valid anymore and they are full of themselves. But I ask you to stop such a way, this distortion of discussion by anyone: left, right or middle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u27	My colleague Sukich, thank you very much. Got it. Please, let's be a little more calm when someone's talking. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u28	Thank you very much. It is comfortable to sit in these chairs, especially when you get tired and fatten from the power and greed that some clearly express by their way of action. But the fact is what this PKP10 is for which this coalition advocates that referendum decision should be prohibited. I'll only talk about one piece, which allows me the time I have at my disposal. Among other things, an amendment provided that the most paid doctor who is already in the 57th pay grade could raise the class to 63rd pay grade. Personally, I don't mind the doctors getting paid. I'd raise them to 70th grade myself, not 63rd grade. But not the way you do it. You're doing this by putting it in a crisis package, through the side door with the parliamentary amendment, past a social agreement that the unions don't even know they're going to start talking, and they say it out loud, and they make their position clear, and on the other hand, the union of doctors says, "It's nothing at all, it's too little, we'd do more." Instead of talking about the whole pay system and regulating it as it should be. You know, some doctors, not everyone, a lot of work, wake up in the morning with a gross salary without working for one minute. Then they come to work and get an extra. Now we're going to put them in the 63rd pay grade with this anti-crisis package. Wrong, wrong, wrong! Because you forgot about everyone else. Who's in the epidemic, remember, at the beginning of two years ago was in the first battle lines? Those doctors with the highest pay grade? No, no, no. These had to be eliminated, and they weren't there. There were young doctors in there. You forgot about those. And this is a crisis measure for you. This is a crisis measure for you not even foreseen by the government, but the Members have brought this amendment. Not to talk about anything else. What should we do? Something else should be done if we had that power. This is that the minimum wage class - and this needs to be negotiated with the social partners - becomes the minimum wage, not the J group that has to be financed from the budget. You didn't think of that because you don't care. But you don't have the courage to do anything else. It's, uh, open up and start talking from the start about the whole pay system that you've made, by the way. Not me, you put it together and you brag about it and you hope to even fix all the problems and problems. Well, now you've caused total unrest. All the others, the schoolchildren and those who will speak up, are up and running. For this marriage we should, if we had any courage, allow people to have the right to go to a referendum. But you have no courage because you're afraid of them. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. See, democracy and this place is supposed to be a place of dialogue where we can come from the left, from right, middle, last, front to some common compromise solutions that are good for the country. Obviously, dear colleagues and colleagues, we can't do that. The democratic opposition has put through these anti-Korona packages a bunch of good-intentioned proposals, in the right direction, but you have not taken them into account, you do not want to take them into account. On the one hand, you're asking us to cooperate, you're accusing us of not cooperating, and that's not really true, otherwise we wouldn't be proposing anything, we wouldn't be preparing anything, we'd be voting against it. That's not true. That's just not true. But because you don't take into account this correction that the democratic opposition can give us, we come up with a lot of bad solutions. To inappropriate solutions. Do you understand me? To inadequate solutions, the consequences of which are ugly, catastrophic, severe. The basis of democracy is to look at things from different perspectives and in different ways. No, no, no. Even what the department prepares, what people prepare, then, as I hear it, comes from headquarters, order you to put it in, let you change it, give it to me. Completely uncritical, no public debate, no professional debate. And you replace a bunch of people, and you set up greenhorns, inexperienced amateurs who can't handle things, they can't communicate, and then we miss the point. We can't support that either. You're forcing us not to support matters that are also good inside. You're forcing us into turning out like this because you're putting these little brats in there that don't belong anywhere. You abuse the law and the law that the referendum is not permissible. You put in provisions that don't belong here, come on! We wouldn't have had a problem supporting it if it weren't for these scoundrels. Even if you haven't accepted our amendments, even if you don't accept our amendments all the time. But you can nod your head any way you want, but that's the weakness of the system. Therefore, the results are poor because you are not prepared for a normal democratic dialogue and are not following the profession and not putting people in control, but you are withdrawing them from individual positions. That's why we're in record debt. The measures have not produced the right results; we are in a difficult crisis again. I don't know, I don't know, it's not okay. That's not right. Even if we continue to do so, this Parliament will not play its role. It is only natural that we have different opinions, different viewpoints, different interests, that this is all we need to meet and talk about, and we need to listen to each other, but obviously not. I think it's leading in a very bad direction, not to say impossible direction. and in fact, Slovenia, sometimes we said that Slovenia would be the other Switzerland, and now it looks like we're going to be the other Hungary. I don't know. I don't know. I don't understand. There used to be more dialogue in this House. In this reference, I see things that way, my dear Pojbich. This is how I see things, and I understand that the lack of dialogue leads to bad solutions. Believe me. It's like that all over the world. If orders come from headquarters to look like laws, that's very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Okay, there's no time. He's got the last Natasha Sukic word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u32	Respected and respected, for whatever a person here says can only be a repetition of one and the same decade. For the past decade, we have seen how anti-korona legislation is played, how it is affected by things that do not have the slightest link with the epidemic, and how things are actually involved in this legislation, not only do they have nothing to do with anti-korona legislation, but they are even illegal or are constitutionally disputed or introduced in a way where there has been no prior dialogue with the relevant stakeholders. A shortcut that reflects the will of this coalition. The ban on the referendum on intervention legislation would be understandable if this legislation did not make so many mistakes, which are actually becoming more and more complex from package to package. This last package is an example of how 75 % of things are supposed to be not even in this package. And this is what corrupts the image of those good measures that are, of course, necessary and necessary, and for which I can say that they are good, even though they were produced by a coalition that does not hear the opposition when we put hundreds of amendments in all these packages, when virtually no one has been confirmed. But I can admit, however, that some measures are good, and I have no problem with that. The problem is that these good measures are misused by pushing things that are not good and that do not follow procedures as they should. It is precisely because of these illegal or unconceived or inadvertent, or without the dialogue of the undersigned, who, unfortunately, are a constant of these packages, that is why we can talk in all anti-Korona packages, in general, about the eccentric case of the abuse of these anti-Korona provisions, with which the government of Janez Janša has in fact been weakening for two years or almost two years, in fact, in violation of democracy in Slovenia and the people is taking power. What's the referendum? The people must have authority and the referendum is corrective. When things are cancelled in Parliament, the people must take the stage and say their own. But you don't let this people say anything else. And that's the problem. The parliamentary majority shall be subject to a provision [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u33	Well, mate Pojbich, are you playing with the phone? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u34	Can you please, Your Honor, stop my time taken from me by Pojbich?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u35	Put it on the quiet phones.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u36	Look, I'm running out of time, but Poebybich bothers me during my debate as usual. Can you, sir, stop the clock?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u37	Please step back, stand back. Step back, or I'll interrupt the session. Don't come in here. I'll stop the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u38	Your Honor, I've lost more than a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u39	Please stop time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u40	Yeah, right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u41	Look. If I falsely accused you, I apologize, but from your end the phone was heard. Please turn off the games, Youtube and things like that. If you don't, I'll stop the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u42	Your Honor, I've wasted quite a bit of time now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u43	Please add one minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u44	Yeah, at least. At least.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u45	My colleague Sukič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u46	The parliamentary majority of Janez Janša with a provision prohibiting the referendum, because it is so-called intervention legislation, is said to make it easier for you to face the coronavirus, in fact all the time using and abuse, and thus clearly shows what we all see, but if it is even so perfunctory there, that it beats the foundations of constitutional regulation, and unfortunately it does so in a variety of ways. Anticoron packages are just one of the terms of this. You take away the democratic rights guaranteed by the Constitution. A constitution that you, unfortunately, don't respect. Here today I have even heard the theory that democracy is enough to have people sitting here and why we should have referendums. Yeah, look, it's not that simple. It is precisely this composition of Parliament that shows why this is not the case and why there must be a correctional referendum. In this House, there are people who have smoothly overrun pre-election promises and who have essentially embellished their electorate and electorate. They are no longer the voice of these electorates and voters. Therefore, people need to be given the floor to speak about things of common public interest. After all, we give all taxpayers money into the common currency and you can't mess with the common public without people having the right to say anything when things go too far. You just can't afford it because it's not your money and you're not the owner of this country, but you're only in the job of running this country right now. Right now. And that's all. This does not mean that you have a Bianca's point of view for anything and that the people have no right to say anything. It is therefore unacceptable that the things contained in this anti-korona package, which are outside the anti-covid measures, should not be judged by the referendum if such an assessment is necessary. In Levica, we strongly oppose such discarding and undemocratic practices, which are only being stepped up, to the point that it has not deteriorated and that not only the public financial system has been broken down, in fact, everything is broken down: this Parliament is broken down, the procedures in this Parliament are broken down. We've been seeing this for the last month, as if you've been completely sorry, in your own words, tearing yourself off the ketone. You've gone all the way across the street, all the way from here. What we're witnessing is, as a colleague mentioned earlier, as far as RTV is concerned, if you're getting revenge for some old times, the Left has nothing to do with it. We'd have the right to have our representatives inside, but we don't have them. And we are one of the most numerous parliamentary groups in this House. Don't fight with your head, look, I'm saying arrogant is amazing, but look, everything stops at some point. Your arrogance will also sit like a balloon out of the air. I hope it's April of the month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate. Would you like a word from the government? I guess not. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Anyone else want a word based on Article 71? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Tina Hefferle has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u48	On behalf of the LMŠ Group, I declare that we will not support a decision to further ban the referendum on our people. The fact is, the title of the law does not yet reflect the true content of the law. In this law, which you wish to ban once again the referendum initiative, there is no intervention legislation, even if we look at the breakdown of the single salary system that you can afford, the respected coalition, in this law. Again, this is not one of the situations that the Constitution foresees as a situation where the referendum can still be prevented. This is not about dealing with the consequences of a natural disaster, because we know that the epidemic has not been declared, so the natural disaster is not a legal fact in our country. That's why it's very unhygienic not to use any other expression that you're going in the coalition. It has practically become quite common for you to have a law, which you consider to be a good thing, to enter into force as soon as possible, and that it would be nice for people not to be asked or not to be given the opportunity to comment on the content of the law, to make a proposal to prevent a referendum and to be satisfied. So it's enough your agenda to try to silence every voice in this country that thinks otherwise of you. This really means another step further towards decommissioning democracy. We know that the referendum initiative is one of the fundamental human rights that our constitution gives to our citizens and citizens. You have a very shameless tool available to you by the National Assembly in the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, but the ban on the referendum should be only and only when it is absolutely necessary, but not every time a ruling coalition so wishes. The fact is that Members of Parliament have received thousands and thousands of e-mails against this pecape in the last month, and the fact is that you have been afraid of these voices, a respected coalition. In fact, today you are making a decision to ban the voice of the people. We do not support such action in the LMŠ and will vote against such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u50	Your Honor! The Constitution clearly states that the referendum is not permissible when it comes to the human rights of vulnerable groups, but we have also witnessed such referendums, despite the fact that the constitution says otherwise. As I believe that the voters and voters of SDS and its satellites are not a vulnerable group in this country, but as a minority who are violent against the majority of the population at this moment, it would be appropriate to measure these votes at the referendum to see how we stand on these matters. Not that you are bluffing here in this House with various tricks and playing your kabajagi majority, which is not really there, or unfortunately because some have turned their backs on their voters and voters because of some of their partisan interests. We will not participate in the beating of democracy in Levika, which is happening to us all in front of our eyes, and we will be resolutely against the banning of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Rudy Bear has a word for himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The law becomes legitimate when everyone understands it. That's what Maria Teresa said, the authentic one, not your modern one. But on the case of a pay ceiling for doctors, you can see for yourself how no one understands or understands it in their own way. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Health here said that this was the beginning of social dialogue. It's not! First, it's social dialogue, then there's legal provisions. At the Ministry of Public Administration, wage guardians are cautiously silent, or in silence, they have somehow said that they see the beginning of the end of the single pay system. On the other hand, the government says it doesn't mean anything. The MPs of the coalition, who filed this supplement, say he'll arrange the position of the doctors. Doctors say it's nothing because they want out of the system. Then there are the young doctors who say it's a cornet without ice cream. Then there are all other trade unions in the public sector that will take all of this to the Constitutional Court and see the collapse of the pay system. So everyone understands in their own way, no one really understands anything and is the law as such or it is an illegal provision. Thus, the adoption of such laws is unacceptable, not that there is an unacceptable referendum on such bad laws. I will certainly vote against the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum because of all the above.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-29-SDZ8-Izredna-92.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish you well in the new year. I want you to rest and come back to health in our bench next year. I hereby conclude this agenda item and 92nd extraordinary meeting of the assembly.
