ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Matjaž Han from 2 p.m. on, Dr. Franz Duck and Jerca Korča. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Acting Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the Ombudsman of Peter Svetino to the 24th item, the Deputy Ombudsman of Miho Horvat and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 26th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 8 October 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 71, against no one. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 26th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions from the 37th Members of Parliament in the course of business. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to present the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall reply to the question within a maximum of five minutes, if the question is raised by more ministers, all shall have five minutes to answer it together. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Dr. Anže Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs; Dr. Helena Jaklitsch, Minister without a department for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries; and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world; Boštjan Koritnik, Minister of Public Administration, until 2 p.m.; mag. Andrej Šircelj, Minister of Finance, between 14 and 17 p.m.; Dr Jože Podgoršek, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, until 2.30 p.m.; Jernej Vrtovec, Minister of Infrastructure, from 2.30 p.m. to mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Environment and Space, since 16.30. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by the Magi. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! There is poverty at the door of citizens and citizens loudly, perhaps even louder than during the difficult months of the epidemic. The world as well as Slovenia are facing a huge rise in energy prices. As we have taken a fair step into the heating season, more and more warnings are coming from charities, so that more and more of our citizens and citizens cannot afford to be warmed up. There were over 32 thousand such households before the outbreak. Your government has completely liberalised the prices of oil derivatives, so traders can go directly to consumers. Fuel prices are rising and sometimes already exceed the euro and a half per litre and the government is not acting. There is also a promising increase in electricity prices. The first announced an increase of 30 % by the state of Petrol. In addition to the prices of its products, the value of its shares and profits also increases. Neither does the government. And, yes, we are indeed witnessing global changes that Slovenia cannot escape but can react to. Since the free market also has its limitations, the European Commission last week issued a measure or decision identifying the aid measures that countries can implement to help people – from reductions in duties to direct subsidies to people at risk. For example, the Government of neighbouring Croatia took action on Wednesday to freeze the prices of oil derivatives. However, the Slovenian government does not seem to intend to act. It relies on the market and competition, which will only bring incentives worldwide in this winter. Minister Vrtovec believes that we are on the safe side, the Minister of Economy responsible for the deregulation of fuel prices, is convinced that there is no reason to encourage. Dear Prime Minister! I would like to warn you that we are literally ahead of tsunami stimulation at all levels. Vulnerable groups that are already barely breaking through from month to month, including families with minimum incomes, single - parent families, pensioners, are also in an unsustainable situation today, and they are desperate. Europe is clearly aware of the scope of the problem. It will respond and allow countries to take measures that would otherwise not be allowed. Other countries are taking action. On account of all this, I ask you, Prime Minister, What has your government done so far to mitigate the rise in energy prices? What does your government intend to do to help people survive the tsunami of price increases? Are you going to propose and reserve funds in the budget to help people who cannot afford to raise energy, fuel and fuel prices? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you very much for the question, which is relevant. As you said, the whole world is dealing with the consequences of rising energy prices. Especially in Europe, we have before us the situation that took place in 2008-2009, in part before, even though no one has reacted seriously to those signs when energy prices flew to the sky and when these reflections have also gone to higher prices of all those products that depend on energy consumption in their production. For the time being, domestic and European science assures us that there is not such a wave ahead of us that these increases are for seasonal effects. Whether we believe it or not, of course, is another thing. However, the fact is that one of the reactions to the epidemic, when domestically said, in both Europe and the United States printed a lot of money, China, through work, created an imbalance between supply and demand and the market leveled it out in one way or another. We always pay consumers in this balancing process. What is the situation in Slovenia? According to the Member States of the European Union, which is what we are now doing intensively because the European Council is ahead of us, because this will be one of the key themes, the situation is different. There are countries where gas supply contracts have expired, electricity, new contracts they have received, and they are twice, three times, four times. And that, of course, is a very serious effect. We don't have that in Slovenia yet. No major contracts concluded for a longer period of time have yet expired for any distributor. This promotion of electricity offered by Petrol and Petrol represents 10% of the offer is unjustifiable. This incitement is unjustifiable, it's a speculative matter. The extent to which the government has instruments here is another question, given the structure in Petrol. But the fact is, this was a measure that was supposed to happen somewhere, but it hasn't happened yet. The government has dealt with this. What's in our power, we'll do. As has already been said, this bidder has 10 per cent of the market, and all those who purchase electricity from an unwarranted bidder have many other bidders who have not raised those prices. I therefore advise all consumers to do so, to change the supplier, which will also be a lesson for those who speculate. As far as oil prices are concerned, I do not know if I remember correctly, in 2014, the euro was half a litre of petrol, and in Slovenia we had a regulated market. The regulated market means that the government was setting margins. The margins represent 8% of the price of petrol. That is to say, you can regulate this, as you wish, there is no significant effect here, given that the price of petrol and oil at the pumps follows the prices of crude oil on the market and this has now gone over $80 per barrel. Not so long ago, it was 30 or even less, and it's always turned into final prices. Will the government act? The government will act. At the previous meeting, we discussed possible measures that we can take. This week is also on the agenda of the European Council. The following week our Minister convened ministers responsible for energy within the European Union. We will act at both national and European level within the framework of the toolbox presented by the European Commission, which you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mag. You're asking for a supplement to your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much for the explanation, where you just summed up the state that it is. Although you have given very few concrete solutions. Otherwise, you stated that you would negotiate, but people need solutions now. Above all, our people, those who are already on the brink of poverty, need them. However, in a given situation, the late action of the government can push people into an impossible situation. The President of the Government, the choice between food and heating, which is becoming a real dilemma for many Slovenian families, really requires immediate action. It is a matter of action in the direction of clear and measurable measures so that people in front of television screens will already know how much they can at least roughly promise state aid when they pay high heating bills in the winter months, and in the direction of taking measures to lower taxation of goods related both to energy and electricity, otherwise you have indicated that this is a speculative rise in the price of Petrol – I hope that we will not receive it – as well as that the government will oppose possible, as you said, a speculative rise in electricity prices and other goods, especially in the case of the companies we have mentioned, with the ownership of the country. So once again, I ask: What measures can we expect from this government before there are catastrophic consequences for our citizens and citizens? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u8	The government will take all the measures that are allowed or allowed within the framework of the common European market – we do not yet know what they will be like, given that there are two important meetings before us, which I mentioned earlier – which will be necessary in Slovenia, including saying part of these speculations by re-regulation of margins. Let's say here is the same bidder, if I'm well informed, raised margins on the fuel oil once again. This is a small percentage of the price, at the final price of a litre of heating oil, but it is not justified because nothing has happened that the market or the cost calculation would require an increase in such margins. It's going to happen again if this data holds that I used to get for a speculative intervention. And we have the means to do that. But this will change the price of oil, the price of heating oil for the final bidder relatively little, because it is a small share in the final price. The main part of the price is the price of the basic raw material, which is made of crude oil. And you probably believe we can't influence that. Another such measure is the energy voucher for households that are at risk. This is one of the options cited by the European Commission. We are also preparing a solution in this direction. There are others, for which the government has no authority, we will probably come with them to the National Assembly with you, and I hope that we will get your support for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr. Mursich, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has already indicated that they will in fact come before the National Assembly. But since we do not want the Social Democrats to wait too long for Slovenia to face a major energy crisis and be among the last members of the European Union to share the infamous cities by the efficiency and quality of helping people in the economy, we want this to happen as soon as possible. The 20 countries of the European Union have already taken action. Unfortunately, Slovenia is not at this time. But I can see you're on the right track. But I absolutely do not want it to continue in such a way that it does not help people, because success in the economy is very important. And if there is a price rise, then the economy will not be able to recover in such concrete terms after the epidemic. I certainly think it is very important that we discuss this subject at the next meeting. I therefore request an immediate debate and ask, on this occasion, the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members, as the President of the Government has also said that it would be easy to discuss the issue immediately, because our people need solutions now and immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 20 October, in the framework of the votes. The next question to the Prime Minister will be asked by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you very much. A nice hello. Mr Janša, in Slovenia for decades there has been an unwritten agreement between politics, police and society in general that the right to protest is a fundamental democratic right that is not suppressed by force. We have never seen tear gas, water cannons and sticks on the streets, nor in 1972, when the students protested, not in 1988, when the protests were due to you in Roška, then no one sprayed water cannons and tear gas, not later in protests against Nat, the election of the Philofax or the end of the day when yours protested in court every day. Never. That's why you probably understand, although it seems justified for many people to live in some sort of ivory tower with Twitter, that the scenes you staged last week in Ljubljana, while you were alone in Brdo with European political elite, shocked Slovenia, regardless of whether or not we agree with the content of the protests. Like Neron, you wrote yourself about this infamous Roman emperor, wrapped Ljubljana in a cloud of smoke, flooded it with 400 canisters of tear gas, and the water cannon shot it all around Slovenian Street at 5:00 p.m., whether people attended the protests or not. There is enough information in the public, Mr Janša, that we know that this was not a professional decision by the police, but a political decision that your people stand for – Hojs, Mahnic, Olaj, according to new information also by former SDS Secretary-General Prebilič and Kangler. So the top of your party has just given the police's operational headquarters a command that protests should be met with force, regardless of the fact that there were no incidents at that point. It's not just illegal, it's illegal. But this Tuesday, it's a nice day to discuss your way of ruling. For the anger of the protestors, Mr. Janša, you are responsible. You have applied the condition of PCT as you have, you have decided two years ago to use the epidemic as some kind of smokey commitment to take over or to demolish the state apparatus and the police, you have placed people who speak the cleverness of the type “today die those who have not so far”. That's Dr. Crack's actual statement. You have encouraged the vaccination with Janssen, as it came out definitively today, by Minister Poklukar, while the most successful countries have long since switched to MRNA vaccines. And you've been spreading conspiracy theories for years, undermining confidence in the media, institutions and so on. And now you've got this boomerang back. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Janša: How, with the exception of your resignation, do you intend to help that Slovenia will not find itself in the vicious circle of violence that we have seen before and before the previous week? Don't you think you've had enough of a fight over the past two years?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u14	Look, honourable Member, I certainly would not sit here and answer your question if you, after you have allowed one government after the last elections, threw the rifles into the corn before Mr Charles. Someone else would sit here and probably blame him for everything. It's about responsibility. As far as the spiral of violence is concerned. There was no violence in Slovenia, but there was a spiral of infection. Since that famous protest, I think it was October 5th, Slovenia has recorded the fastest increase in infections in Europe and after new pressure on hospital beds and intensive departments. We can probably expect an even higher spiral in the next week. That's what we're talking about. Slovenia is ahead of the fact that, due to irresponsible behaviour that has certainly not been caused by the police or the government, we will be forced to reintroduce measures that will not be taken by PCT, but that measures that will re-engage public life and the economy will cause additional damage, prevent recovery after the epidemic and cause new deaths. Our share of transplantation is too small for any of what appears in the Facebook scientific sphere to be done, it is said that simple PCT measures would change into recommendations, although with these reactions of the courts, the Constitutional Court, some authorities and so forth in the public, there is the impression that these decisions are only recommendations, and this further accelerates the spiral of infections. Today you can still ask the question of the mission and move on. One month from now, given what's being predicted, we'll have completely different concerns, including you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Port of the Moon, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much. First, I'm going to comment on irresponsible behavior. Look, the first person who doesn't behave responsiblely in this country is you. I do not recall any other European Prime Minister who, in the way you escorted that delegation of the European Parliament to Slovenia last week, treated foreign states, politicians or the EU summit. None. It is irresponsible, Mr Janša, as I said before, that you have begun to use the crisis to take power from the beginning. It is irresponsible that you have set people like Dr. Krek to the most responsible places for crisis management, or to promote vaccinations by Mr. Kadič. It's irresponsible that you bought everyone a quick test of some crypto-millionaires, crypto-crossers, sorry. It is irresponsible that you have repeatedly scrupulously violated the decisions of the courts. It is irresponsible that during the crisis you suffered from STA as the main media in the country. And it is irresponsible to set an example by your conduct to the entire ministerial team, how a government can suddenly swarm with people on Twitter every day. And now you're surprised that no one believes you and that infections are spreading. Look, yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, or Saturday, there were a thousand 800 new infections, and there was no protest. These infections do not take place in protests, Mr Janša, but they do happen in places that your government cannot protect with its failed vaccination strategy. Take a look around and see who's still checking the condition of PCT you prescribed three weeks ago. These are the key questions. And, yes, I'm worried about getting a headache. It's going to hurt us for a long time, not just because of the epidemic, but because of the lack of trust. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u17	Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u18	That wasn't the question. The question was: Why does the government rule with violence? Why are we using the epidemic to gain power? The government by definition has power. You don't have to use something to gain power. This is the legitimate authority exercised by the Government in accordance with the Constitution. And as far as violence is concerned, and that, honourable Member, I have previously received information that 40 police officers have been injured in these so-called non-violent protests, slightly more easily damaged by the rioters than we have seen in the media. When we put these numbers in front of us, it's perfectly clear who's doing the violence. It's perfectly clear who's doing the violence here. And as far as the protests are concerned. When the perpetuators protested before the court, when I was unconstitutionally in prison and my mandate was taken away, all those protests were reported, no one obstructed traffic, no violence, everything was in accordance with the law. And there was no epidemic. Now these are undeclared protests, they are gathered at intersections and half the Ljubljana people can't go to kindergarten for children, they can't go to work, they can't live normally in those days. He's a big pusher. Above all, what's worst and what you've shown you have no idea about is the spread of infections. By the way, at all the events I've been at since the PCT system was in place, this has been strictly checked. This is also verified at the highest meetings at European level. Sometimes even if you're not enough to get vaccinated, you need to get tested. I've probably tested myself more than all of you here in the last year. It's strictly checked. Spiral infections first show up in seven days, no more than ten days, slightly less after 14 days. Count these days and you'll see when this started to spread. The various decisions of the courts as to how one should not even be punished if it does not respect the mandatory wearing of masks and so on have certainly made a significant contribution to this failure to respect. I know you'll say it's all the government's fault. Look, at the end of the day, it won't matter. As a result, if we have to lower the forecast of economic growth, we have less money in the budget, and energy vouchers for those most at risk of rising energy prices will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u19	Luka Moon, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I think the Prime Minister has made clear by his claim "government has power" that he does not understand that this authority is limited by laws. The government has no perfect authority, Mr Janša. The government does not have the authority to exhaust one of the main media in the state of finance if it decides to do so, nor does it have the authority to make an illegal decision to break the protests violently. The law is very clear. First there must be violations, then the police must warn the violators and only after warning can they use coercive means. For the last time, we know that none of this happened, but a command came from Hojs, Mahnič and others, directly from the police operating headquarters, that protests must be violently destroyed. And that's why, Mr. Janša, we have 40 injured police officers. Because of this command. As Ali Jerdin wrote beautifully in the last Saturday annex, the problem we have is that your government has come out of the field of legality. If a citizen breaks the law on the street, that's no problem. The police take care of it. The citizen shall be fined or sanctioned, by law, for his or her violation. However, if the government has failed by law, as your government has failed, we have a problem because we do not have the leverage to put a government that violates laws before the law. And that's the problem, Mr. Janša. You're creating a country where we have first- and second-class. You act like you're living above the law, but the rest are subject to some of your willful measures, which often don't even stop the legality test in court. That's why we're in this mess, and your response is violence. That's why I said we should talk about violence. Because you've shown that you can rule only by force and force. But that's not gonna work. Don't worry, the elections, you want, you don't want, they'll be here soon. I'm worried that even when you surrender your authority, you'll behave as any of your colleagues abroad. But to avoid this, I suggest that we discuss in the National Assembly where the boundaries of marriage are of every government, because obviously the Prime Minister does not understand and will never understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 20 October, in the framework of the votes. The next question is the question of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister of the Government! The environment and concern for it is one of the key issues when we are talking about our future. The last referendum on the Water Act has shown that people are very involved in such issues when it comes to the environment and the future, which is, of course, right after all. There are many questions, many challenges, and the task of policy is to find answers to the challenges ahead. Slovenia shall preside over the European Union or the Council of the European Union during this period. That's why I want to know: What are the contents or what are the solutions that Slovenia has already put on the table as President or what will you be able to do in the field of the environment by the end of the year? For the Sab customer, the environment and a cleaner future are important subjects. Not from today or yesterday, but from 2016 we have tabled a proposal to amend the Constitution so that water can be enshrined in the Constitution as the right of all. We did it, we're proud of it. Of course, the legislative framework must be prepared to ensure that this provision is respected. That's why I'm first interested: Why are these proposed solutions not yet on the table — a year and a half was the time — or when do you intend to do so? And as the second part of the question, we have prepared and tabled in the SAB a bill prohibiting the use of single-use plastic. I'm interested in your position, the position of the government. We would do well to find a common language in our discussion of the future and to support such a law together. That's why I want to know: Can we also expect coalition support in supporting this law?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much. First, on environmental issues at European and global level. During this time, since Slovenia was run by the Council of the European Union, an agreement has been reached between the Council and the European Parliament to amend the Aarhus Regulation, which is one of the basic acts for responsible environmental management. Here is also the coordinated position of the European Union at this time towards the United Nations Convention on Waters. During this time, we are all working on preparations for the COP26 conference in Glasgow, which will be a particular challenge mainly because of the topic that we have addressed in the first question of Parliament, and we are not yet harmonised. We are trying to harmonise the Regulation on batteries and waste batteries, which is one of the major environmental problems, and I think we will be successful. As far as the right to clean drinking water is concerned, you are right, just by the fact that this has been enshrined in the Constitution, the water is exactly as much as it was, and it is just as drinkable as it used to be. However, there is now much going on to ensure that clean drinking water is provided to the population of the whole of Slovenia. The draft Law on Economic Public Services for Environmental Protection, which regulates the supply of drinking water to the population, is being prepared. This law will be on your hands in time so that it can be adopted by the end of the term of office. Amendments to the Drinking Water Supply Regulation and to the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services for environmental protection are being made. Last month we sent to public hearing an operational drinking water supply programme for the period 2022-2027. This proposal is also in line with the guidelines of the European Union and the OECD. The Ministry of Environment and Space is preparing a revised water management plan for the next five-year period as well as a water management programme. The following month, it is said, no later than November, will be submitted for public hearing. This programme represents such a strategic approach to establishing a basis for further protection of our water resources. Here, too, the legislation itself has not changed anything significantly, and in addition to the normative activity of the last year and a half, the Ministry of Environment and Space has significantly accelerated investment in water supply. These will actually enable the exercise of the constitutional right of citizens in many regions. The agreement programme for the development of the regions, which forms a part of the basis for the allocation of funds, provides for the implementation of 10 additional projects. Let me just mention project B and C in Pomour, water supply in the upper Sava area, that's the bloodstream. This investment will significantly improve water quality in the wider area of Kranj and the surrounding municipalities. The approved project also includes a mustache water pipeline, which represents an extremely important investment in the provision of water supply in the Slovenian Istria area and in the karst hinterland. At the same time, there is a state plan to provide an additional water source, the only one that will be able to provide care for this region in the long term, but this is about 100,000 inhabitants, which has not been resolved so far. And, of course, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, we have also committed €70 million from the recovery and resistance plan for investments in smaller water networks, which has not been possible so far. As far as your law prohibiting the placing of plastic products on the market is concerned, this issue has already been addressed by the Government through a regulation, but we do not object to this issue being regulated at the legal level, so we have not opposed the law or now that it has been supplemented, it also has our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mag. Cousin, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u26	Okay. I will say thank you very much for this public commitment to support this law banning plastics for single use. As I have already said, environmental themes are those that are important to the Sab. They are not only important for the SAB, they are also important for people or especially for people and our future. In the SAB, we want to find points or content that we are able to prepare and support in the near future so that our future is better. After all, as I have already said, this is our shared political responsibility. Once again, however, I will be concerned with the question of water or legislative solutions related to water if it can be further defined. The deadlines are really short if we are to accept this in this mandate. How long can we expect marriages? I think that the three are the key laws that should be adopted as a result of the change of constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u28	See, all laws will be forwarded to the National Assembly in due time, it is said that the procedure, including a regular one, can be completed by the end of this term. Here December or possibly January are the last deadline if the laws are to be followed on a regular basis. Even before the law, an operational drinking water supply programme should be established for the next five years. This is a public hearing since September. I invite all of you to take part in this public hearing and to finally adopt this operational programme as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Cousin, you have a motion for a procedural motion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u30	As we have heard from the Prime Minister's response, it is a lot of subject matter, a lot of content, a lot of projects, an important content, an environment, a future, so that I propose that we hold a debate on this answer or question in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 20 October, in the framework of the votes. Next to the last question will be asked by Monika Gregorčič, Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u32	Good afternoon. Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! On 1 July, the Republic of Slovenia took over one of its most important tasks. This is a project for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which means that we have recently stepped into the other half of this Presidency. At the end of the year, the work of the trio, in which we work together with Germany and Portugal, which is largely marked by the covida-19 pandemic, will be so rounded up. Therefore, logically, all other substantive priorities have somehow taken place in the shadow of pandemic circumstances and the mitigation of their consequences. That is why the priorities of our presidency are, in the first place, focused on resilience, in the broader sense of the word. In my mind, of course, I have first-hand resistance to health crises, and then also to economic, cyber and broader social crises or challenges. For the Modern Centre Party, it is particularly positive that the Republic of Slovenia shows very good performance in terms of economic recovery after the pandemic. After two stops to public life and, consequently, to stop some economic activities, we are using the true combination of an expansion of European monetary policy and domestic fiscal policy among the most economically successful countries. Our economic growth is very above average and we have extremely low unemployment. This confirms or strengthens the belief that the crisis can also be an opportunity, an opportunity to look to the future, into development, into a transition to advanced, more modern, digital and green technologies. Among the other key priorities of the Presidency, we have also set ourselves a secure European Union as a union of European way of life, the rule of law, the same criteria for all, with a fully functioning Schengen system, the recast of the Pact on Migration and Asylum and the ability to ensure security and stability in our neighbourhood. As we are also very well aware of the historical circumstances of the instability of the Western Balkans region, we pay particular attention to these countries, their European future and the credible continuation of the enlargement process. If anything, we know that these countries urgently need a European perspective, which is why we have recently hosted the EU-Western Balkans Summit. Dear President, I ask: What is your assessment of this summit, talks and final agreement? I also ask you politely for a broad assessment of the first half of the presidency and your view on planning the second half of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u34	Yes, thank you very much. When I came here, someone said that the leader of one of the parties yesterday said how Slovenia is taking files from the Presidency. I have to say, I'd be glad if that happened, but that's not happening. The files are given to us, or many have placed themselves on us, given that the Presidency of the Council of the European Union during our semester is essentially the first post-insurgency Presidency, which is going on operationally, throughout the whole of the agenda, without the epidemic or the pretext of an epidemic, putting it forward. From previous Presidencies, very many files have been transferred to this semester, very many dossiers. And we have to work, I think with 50% more than we should. However, this Presidency, as has already been said, is operational, with no excuses, most meetings and coordinations are physical. We all know it's easier to put something on the next presidency if you don't even sit at the table together. So it's a great effort. There are about as many Slovenians as there are French or German administrations, but we have to do the same work. So thank you to all those who participate in this project, either within the framework of the public administration, because it is an extremely great additional effort, which, by the way, has not been further rewarded. As far as the accent is concerned. With regard to the last meeting between the European Council and the leaders of the countries of the Western Balkans, I can say that, although this may seem paradoxical to anyone, our greatest success is that we have brought the word enlargement back to the final document at all, because earlier this word in the documents of the past ten years has practically gone away. There has been talk about the European perspective, which can mean anything, all of these countries are already in Europe, have a European perspective, will not go to America or Asia, and also through terminology, the matter has been tried to be completely divorcised. One hand at a time, within the European Union, we have a spirit divide, as far as enlargement is concerned. Most countries favour enlargement, but there are some countries that, if I am very grave, their leaders think that people from countries who are waiting endlessly for membership in the European Union are cheap labour. And they've been a cheap labor force for a long time, and they're paid to keep the expansion longer – if you want to go straight to the point. Some even openly say that behind closed doors. This debate, which took place on the Hill, also touched on what is not being said publicly. This may have helped to recommence the enlargement commitment in the final document. But we didn't make it with the time book. Slovenia has proposed that this enlargement be carried out in one way or another in the future decade, according to the next ten years, which is possible. All reforms can be implemented at this time. If we look at what we had to do in the ten years or other countries that came with us to the EU in 2004. Unfortunately, there's no agreement on that. But it was a large majority, and we're working on it. In the second half, we have a lot on the agenda, but all of these topics, as is often the case, are now overshadowed by the rise in energy prices, which is changing the agenda. That's how we deal with something that wasn't in the plan, or when we were doing the tria program with Germany or Portugal, or when we were doing our program specifically in the spring, because no one was predicting it at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 24th and 25th meetings of the National Assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Ange Logar, should answer the question of mags. Andrej Reich's activities to implement the arbitral decision between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, but he is absent today. I ask the Member whether he insists on an oral response or whether he wants a written reply from the Minister. Mag. Raj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Given that this is a very important question and that good-neighbourly relations are crucial for the further development of relations and that this is a very important question, I want an oral answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer the question orally at the next meeting of the assembly. The Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec will answer Vojk Starović's questions, first of all regarding the operation of the Maribor Air Center. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much for asking me this question. In accordance with the Aviation Act, the operating time of the public airport shall be determined by the operator of the public airport following prior coordination with the user committee, in particular with the Public Aviation Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and also with the service providers at the airport. Since that agreement had not taken place at that time, I decided, as Minister, by virtue of Article 162(2) of the Aviation Act, to fix operating time for the summer transport period by a decision. In the issuance of this Decision, we have taken into account the position of users and at the same time the possibilities of operating all the mandatory airport services, according to also international acts, which all belong to so that the airport can be opened. Later there was an agreement, so since 1. 8. 2021 operating time shall apply from Monday to Sunday for a duration of 9 hours per day, from 9 to 18 hours per local time. In general, I add that both the operator of the Airport Edward Rusjan Maribor, so-called DRI, d.o.o., which is owned by the State, as the Minister responsible for infrastructure, must take into account in the case of the determination of operating time by decision, and this is essential, indeed, all the objective staffing capabilities of both the airport manager and all the necessary services at the airport. These are services such as the security service, the fire department, to stress this, the air traffic control service, i.e. air traffic control in Slovenia, police, customs service and so on. In particular, account must also be taken of all costs incurred for the state budget. You also mention yourself in your parliamentary question. Yes, commercial air traffic is very low. That's right. Notwithstanding this, we are aware that the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to commercial aviation activities, also plays a major role in the non-commercial activity of general aviation, which includes aviation activities of a private, sports and amateur nature. Taking all these three key elements into account, we are also in the past, and we will also look in future at the Ministry for all possibilities that will allow the airport to operate as long as possible for all users. What I'm trying to say is that this requires additional funding. We have weekly discussions on how to ensure that the airport can be operated for longer periods. In particular, we have faced this in the summer months when a number of measures were taken to protect against the tide, and in this regard also the associated take-off and landing of the said company that is performing this service, but we have coordinated everything in this time frame. In addition, if a certain announcement occurs outside these nine hours, of course everything will be settled. If we get a charter that we would like to come to Maribor, and this is an announcement, the arrival of this charter will be arranged within one day, taking care of all security at the airport, firefighters, air traffic control service, police and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My friend Starović, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Look, Minister, I'm going to say it out of practice. I've been on the air for over 50 years. I also ran the first airport and built it, which was open to international public air transport – that is, the Portorož Airport – even during Yugoslavia when the control was under the military. I was able to change the law, regulate the regulations that such a small airport was qualified at all. At this airport, at the same airport, when we also had a limited working time due to rationality, the sports airport operated separately, without any problems, because as a sports airport, as a sport activity, it does not need to be controlled, nor anything else, because it can only fly when the airspace is visible when there is no obstacle. Under Article 70 of the Constitution, it is clear that airspace is also a public good that we all have the right to use under the same conditions and must be enabled to do so. The airport Maribor, a sports airport that was before and after the contract departs part of its public airport space, has all its own infrastructure and there are no technical obstacles other than administrative. That's why my question, Mr. Minister: What will you do to ensure that this activity, which is larger at the sports airport than the public airport, can normally take place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u42	We expect a large part of the solution by concluding a public tender, which is now being prepared for concessionaires and concessions. Then, to a large extent, this story, which has been going on for the past 10 years, will end. Otherwise, we are in regular contact and regular contact with the sports society, why this is happening and what our options or options are. You know he's the owner of the last three years of the DRI, which is 100% state-owned. We have regular discussions with them because it is crucial, and we all want this to be an airport, especially this sports section, for as long as possible in operation. But I think that by the end of the year, by the end of the year, a call for a concessionaire could have come to a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. My friend Starović, would you like a word? You have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u44	Look, I'm not happy with the answer. I think we have followed some European regulations without any criticism, we have adapted nothing and we do not know how to adapt. We're handling things administratively. There is no obstacle to the normal operation of the sports airport. This restriction on the use of airspace has exceeded all measures in Slovenia. The lieutenant in the military can record that some airspace is being shut down because one of their helicopters is flying. I therefore propose that what is public good is a very important matter. And the airstrip is public good. I propose that the National Assembly speak and discuss the free use of airspace and the prevention of excessive and unnecessary restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 20 October, in the framework of the votes. We have another question for the Minister of Infrastructure in this package: mag. Andrej Reich will set it up in connection with Thermal Power Plant Šostanj. Excuse me, the minister has the floor to answer, and then to complete the question if it comes to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. A very important, serious issue not only because we are talking about the TEC, but we are also talking on the basis of these issues on the energy independence of the Republic of Slovenia. First time. What increase in electricity prices can Slovenian citizens expect in one year? Look, electricity prices can't be predicted in one year. The Prime Minister has already given an earlier answer on this point. You know that electricity prices are being created on the market, that's the market. Slovenia is most dependent on two exchanges, one in Budapest, the other in Leipzig. And that's where electricity prices are formed. The second is when we talk about the energy independence of Slovenia. Slovenia is divided into thirds. We produce one third of electricity or it is also provided by the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant. And there's been a lot of dialogue around here lately. The price will be affected by the offer in one year's time, on the other hand, again by weather conditions, especially due to wind and so on, the seasonal situation, and another important thing, especially in relation to TES, the costs of CO2 coupons which have increased from €20 to €64 in the last year. Now they've settled on 64 euros, but no one can predict if they can go to 100 euros by the end of the year. And this is the moment of that painful story where it's hard to predict what the price of electricity will be. All contributions, network, excise duty and VAT are also important for the final price for consumers alone. You know there's about a third of the electricity costs on the table. What I can say right now is that this needs to be monitored and then the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to curb the rise in electricity prices can be linked. Second question. What about energy security and self-sustainment? With energy security, if you were thinking about security of energy supply in Slovenia, I really don't care. With regard to self-sustainment, we must understand in Slovenia that we are part of the EU internal market and domestic products should not be given a priority if it is not competitive on the market. One economist said last time that we should put what we have in place, and we will no longer put it abroad. Just like this economist said, it's not going to work. The development of our energy system is also linked to development within the energy union itself. Our task, Mr Reich, is in particular to ensure the transition to a affordable, secure, competitive, reliable and sustainable energy system. We are doing all the work for a thorough overhaul of energy legislation as well. We have adopted here in Parliament a law on the efficient use of energy, including a law on the promotion of the use of renewable resources. Both laws are the basis for promoting the implementation of energy efficiency measures and promoting the use of renewable energy sources, to the greatest extent to ensure the exploitation of domestic energy potentials. With this, we will do the most for energy independence. Not only as Slovenia, but also as Europe, to take advantage of wind potential to use hydropotential on the lower Sava to build Mokrice as much as possible, but also on the middle Sava. So we have three new projects, three new hydro power plants. But also renewable energy sources will be too low. If we think we can shut down 2033 TEST, it will be too small and we will need to build a second block of nuclear power plant in Krk. That is why we have also issued an energy permit so that all procedures can be initiated. This is not the final decision for the second block, but all procedures. The second block of the nuclear power plant in Krk, along with renewable energy sources, is the answer to where to get the TES manka, which will have to be closed, which is a fact. We won't be able to dig coal because it's always more expensive and so on. Go ahead, Tash. See, if there was a bankruptcy of TES, this would have a major impact on most of the employees in TES, employees in the Coal Velenje will have to do all the work for a while. This is why we are preparing a national coal exit strategy, and on the basis of this national strategy, the law itself is being drawn up. But the key is to make a just transition. That's the key. With regard to targets from renewable energy sources. Indeed, we do not achieve these objectives, so green energy will need to be gathered from abroad. I'm sorry. But I wish that we were ambitious and that we could make up for this manka later.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u48	Dear Minister, I have asked many questions, and you have also said a great deal, which are very substantive. I would also like to touch on one topic in the sense that, given that we will close the thermal power plant in one foreseeable time, that even some EU countries are not planning new production capacities from nuclear energy, it is not clear how certain countries will provide passive power supply, i.e. one belt supply, not that which is dependent or which depends primarily on weather conditions. Of course, the energy sector faces a number of challenges. We all want in particular safe, reliable and affordable electricity supply and self-reliance is therefore an important priority. In terms of price regulation and State intervention on the electricity market, I would point out that France regulated them at a time when prices increased. In this sense, in view of the fact that citizens are guaranteed the obligations of the electricity industry with the State guarantee, we would probably accept a similar matter in the National Assembly or accept a government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u49	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u50	I am looking at measures to increase electricity, which in recent months are still growing so as not to talk about gas. There are absolutely more reasons why this has occurred. Among other things, there are weather conditions. You know what the operation of hydroelectric power plants in Austria is like right now, and they have a lot of problems because it was a very dry period. With regard to renewable energy sources. This ensures the greatest and most crucial stability, for sure in the long term. We have adopted the NEPN. And we also have our goals in it. One of the objectives is that the sector will continue to be largely based on the use of a mix of primary sources from Slovenia, in particular the OVE and nuclear energy, with the commitment that renewable energy production will reach 43% in 2030. Let me tell you, Denmark is 60% today. But notice, their electricity price is 2.5 times higher than in the Republic of Slovenia. So, green yes, we agree, but it also costs a lot more. This is why we always stress the combination with the nuclear power plant at the same time. Let me make that point. This is where new technologies come in. We have issued an energy permit for the best technology possible. But there are also new technologies called small modular reactors that are developing in the United States and elsewhere in the world. I think this will also make a breakthrough for Europe's energy independence and also Slovenia. If Europe were more energy independent, as far as gas is concerned, but we have no resources here, then this crisis would be easier to overcome today. Like it is. In particular, prices are now driving up the gas. And you know that more and more and that Germany, for example, has declared that gas will be a transitional element for electricity generation for the next few decades. And it stimulates the price of electricity. With regard to regulation itself, which was a key question. I'm basically against regulation. However, the country has many other instruments here to offset this price. There is also a set of all the measures proposed by the European Commission, and there are 6, 7, and we will also debate this if there is a real drastic increase. At this point, you need to be aware that the position on Petrol, for example, from that third that is higher at the expense of electricity, has risen by about 2 to 3 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u52	I have a procedural proposal. Debates and questions are very important and challenging. That is why I also want, on the basis of what the honourable Minister has said, to hold a debate in the National Assembly, because we need to be prepared for these things before they happen, we cannot just wait. So I ask that we discuss this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 20 October, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. Tina Heferle will ask the Justice Minister, Marjan Dikaucic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! I'm glad you took your time today and came to this house. I'm glad you didn't completely forget our home address since you've been here a few times. My question relates to the topic that we discussed on the Justice Committee last Thursday, namely, one of the key documents of your government, which is the budget of the Ministry of Justice. I hope you've seen this debate. However, not so much debate among us Members, if you are not already interested, but above all the debate that the President of the Council of Justice has had. The debate noted that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as regards the financing of the Supreme Court, did not listen to their well-meaning comments and requests for more funds. On the contrary, the integrated funds for 2022 were unilaterally reduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Supreme Court. They were also given such maneuvers in the Council of Justice when you also unilaterally reduced funds, without any notice or possible involvement in discussions on these funds. Let me mention, for example, in the Council of Justice, they requested funds for two additional jobs, and they reasoned that they would be more effective in their work, but you ignored the request or deliberately ignored it. On the other hand, this same government also does with you, Mr Minister, everything necessary for an additional 600 jobs in the state administration. According to the President of the Council of Justice, this type of unilateral contraction, cutting down the financial resources of such important institutions as the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, is, I quote, “a serious threat to the exercise of judicial authority in our country.” We probably agree, Mr. Minister, that financial dependence is at risk when it comes to unilaterally cutting funds from the government. In fact, this means indirectly implanting the executive branch of power in a court of law. A similar story happens with the STA. I'm asking you today: Do you use a similar manner to that of STA, or financial exhaustion, in the judiciary? But don't give us time to tell us about investments in premises and the equipment of the judicial authorities. Please answer my question exactly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much, distinguished Member, Mrs. Hefferle! Thank you very much for your question. Of course, I always respond to your invitation, if possible, if I am not absent. As a member of the Justice Committee, you have already been thoroughly familiar with the proposal for amending the budget for 2022 as well as the draft budget for 2023. As has already been presented on the Committee, I will repeat here once again, the budgets of the Ministry of Justice for the next two years are indeed the highest, since taking into account all types of funds in 2022 this budget is almost 122 million and in 2023 it is approximately 120 million. The highest are, of course, at the expense of investments made by the Ministry of Justice on the one hand for the purposes of the prison system, where it leads to the investment of the new construction of a man's prison in Dobrunje and adaptation and the partial new construction of a women's prison in Igu, and of course for the needs of the judicial authorities. With regard to these planned investments in the premises used by the judicial authorities, I must make it clear that in the field of investment and investment maintenance of these judicial authorities, in view of the previous years, we will even double the funds in this place and so in the following year, in 2022, we will aim to improve working conditions, in particular the judiciary. Thus, we will spend around €11 million on investments and investment maintenance works, i.e. an integrated energy renovation of the Brežice judicial building, together with the construction of an elevator that will allow access to mobilely disabled persons, for whom approximately €3 million is planned, then the renovation of the Jesenica judicial building, where energy renovation and lifting will also be made, will also be provided with new equipment, and this investment will be worth about €3.7 million. Then we will begin with the energy recovery and implementation of the lift for the traffic-instruded persons also at the Kranj courthouse. This financial reality is EUR 1 million. In 2022 it is also designed for the energy renovation of the New Town judicial building. In addition, we will complete the investment and maintenance works on Tavčareva in Ljubljana, rehabilitate the Regional Court in Lendava, replace water installations and extended sanitation in the Maribor courthouse and so on, so that I will not list everything now. We also continued, of course, with the renovation of the fleet by the judicial authorities. One of the most important successes is the provision of funds in future budgets to revive the new building in Ljubljana, which the judiciary has been alerting for at least 10 years, and no government has actually provided funds for this purpose to date. We are planning an estimated €2.4 million in the budget for 2022, bringing together €13 million for the main judiciary. We also provide from European funds to the judiciary one better system for videoconference support for their processes. From the recovery and resistance plan, we have thus managed to provide an additional EUR 12 and a half million, which are not yet shown in the budget of the Ministry or in the budget of the judicial authorities, of which only for projects of the judiciary cca 8.6. In preparing budgets for the next two years, the government has also given priority to providing funds for measures that are appropriate to manage the risks associated with the epidemic [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I propose that the Member State has made a very clear statement in its question of the Member's question of what it is not interested in. I have to say, all we've heard is that, that's an investment in justice. So I believe that now will be the word to complement the answer, and I ask that we stick to the question raised. Colleague Hefferle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u58	Of course, I have a request to complete the answer because I did not get my answer. Dear Minister, water installations, I hope that we agree that they do not contribute to an independent and independent judicial institution or contribute to the independence of the judiciary in our country. However, it contributes to the dependence of the judiciary on the fact that the government allows itself to unilaterally reduce the budget for 2022. And that's what I was asking you. I'm not interested in investing in infrastructure and equipment. I specifically asked you not to stop my time with these answers, but please tell me: Why, in record, according to you, the budget, did you say almost 122 million euros for justice, you can't spend on requests, on explanations, explaining to the Supreme Court and the Council that they need these additional funds, stinging a little over 7 million euros? With a record budget, as you have boasted, 122 million euros cannot be provided with a few extra euros for the Supreme Court, so that your government will no longer have to compare it with perjury. On the one hand, we have an ineffective judiciary on your part, on the other hand, when black and white show you where they need additional resources to make their work even more effective, you say no. So please answer me, Mr. Minister: Are you using the same maneuvers as the STA when you financially exhaust institutions that need your money or our money to function effectively? Please answer me about the Supreme Court and about the Council of Justice and not about investments in plumbing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much. These conclusions you have made that the government wants to bring the judiciary into line with its budget are actually completely wrong. If anything, then it's the budget that shows the other way around. By raising funds, we allow the judiciary and, above all, the judiciary to have significantly better working conditions than they had in the past. The proposal to amend the budget for 2022, which is currently before the interested committees, is indeed reducing the funds to the judicial authorities, namely the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the State Attorney's Office, in view of the financial plans that these judicial stakeholders have coordinated with the Ministry of Finance in the summer months. However, the draft budget for 2023 remained at a level which everyone mentioned above also agreed. At this point, I should like to point out that these judicial authorities are independent budgetary users and, as such, they also deal independently with the competent Ministry of Finance. However, as Minister of Justice, I feel obliged to help myself in this dialogue, which has brought less funding for 2022, and, of course, with all involved, I will also strive to evaluate the situation in order to come up with some possible solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Colleague Hefferle, word for motion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u62	Of course, I have a procedural proposal to hold a general debate in the National Assembly on this subject of financial exhaustion of the judiciary, even though the budget may be adopted at that time. Mr Minister, you either don't understand or you don't want to understand, a better water system than you've said very happily before, I don't know where, yes, but this is not the condition of work that will ensure our justice system that it will be more independent, independent and ineffective. I hope that we agree here and that this is really just an awkward escape from your side. I really hope it's not a misunderstanding. You said a record budget. Yes, of course, that's why we're telling you, it's a couple of euro fiends that the Supreme Court still needs and so does the Council of Justice. I showed you on the case, on the one hand, an application for two additional posts in the Council of Justice, and on the other hand, the Government arranges everything necessary for the new 600 jobs in the state administration. If this is not a sedition and if this is not some mode of operation that you silently fortify, and it is a financial exhaustion of all institutions that are not convenient to you, on the one hand we have a STA, on the other hand we have now judicial institutions that you still refer to as felons when they suit you. If it's not an obvious modus operandi, then I don't know what it is. Mr. Minister, you say you will seek no dialogue among the stakeholders. Yes, but where have you been until now, when the government unilaterally, quietly, reduced the integral funds behind your back to the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice for 2022? Where have you been with your dialogue so far? And we know that for 2023, when you said that the funds remained the same there, it is likely that in the future some balance of the budget will be adopted, as we now accept it. And now you're lowering your funds in the balance sheet. You certainly are not as much a justice minister as our country needs our justice. In view of all these indications that you are deliberately using the judicial authorities financially, it is still necessary to hold a general debate on this subject in this house in the house of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 20 October, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Marko Koprivc will ask the question of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Restoršek, as Minister, even more governments so far, and as Vice-President of the current government, you are the first to be responsible that Slovenia no longer has a model to limit the prices of fuel and fuel oil. You advocated that the release of restrictions would not raise prices and that competition would do its job. Here's your statement from a good year ago, September 2020. You said, quote: “Now is the best time to liberalise prices, as the increase in the margins of traders that have now been limited will have a small impact on the increase in retail prices.” Since then, the Minister, the prices of petrol and diesel have increased by 33% 44% in one year. Today, we are faced with enormous fuel irritations as well as fuel oil. Other goods, such as electricity and food, are also strongly irritated. The current law on price control requires you to monitor the situation as a district minister and propose measures if necessary. And I think all the alarms are ringing. Given the exceptional rises in energy prices that are already causing a global crisis, people are prevented from heating up their apartment and filling their tanks, you, Minister, ask: Do you agree that the release of oil derivatives prices was a mistake and particularly harmful to consumers? I believe that this is a positive measure for capital or for Petrol, but it has been proven that the market does not work for consumers. And, of course, this is where the country, the one that helps, should come in. Will you propose new measures to limit consumer fuel prices? On what professional grounds do you base your decisions and your statement from a good year ago? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u66	Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Marko Koprivc, respectable National Assembly! Thank you for asking. Today, world oil prices reach record highs. The reason is the general tension in the energy market. Oil prices are thus not far from their record values. Well, because you mix apples and pears, I have to tell you that the price of oil derivatives is composed of 3 parts in the grave to make it easier for you to understand: from the price of oil on the world market, from excise duties simplified, given by our country, and from the margin of traders. Oil derivatives were liberalized in three steps, 2016 fuel oil and 95-octane gasoline, then in the next step during the previous government liberalisation on motorway crosses. And what you're talking about is price liberalisation on the other side of the highway, namely oil and 95-octane gasoline. We have liberalised only margins that affect 6 to 7% of the price. Today, the prices of oil derivatives on the market are the same as in 2018 and 2019, they have fallen enormously in times of apparent crises, just as they have now grown enormously. So I'm not going into the speculative approach of Petrol in the meantime, but there is no need for alarming matters here at this point. At the Ministry we work by law to monitor the marginal policies pursued by oil distributors. And if we detect deviations here, we will regulate the prices of oil derivatives further. By the time of liberalisation, we were the only member of the European Union that had a regulated market for petroleum derivatives – we are still talking about the margin. However, the price of oil on global markets affects 40%. This is why these prices rose at this point and returned to the 2018 and 2019 levels. While we can set limited prices for what you say, we will have situations, as in the previous country, when we had prices, there were no goods. In short, to conclude in this first part, the Government will, if necessary after analysing the margins of oil traders, take a decision to temporarily regulate the margins, but we cannot afford to influence ourselves and we do not have leverage on the prices of oil derivatives resulting from the price of crude oil on the world market. The decision to liberalize – I think you asked me that – but I think it was still the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Koprivc, you have the floor to request a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Restoring, first of all, I think that this patronizing attitude towards Members in this house is completely inappropriate. Of course, we all know that there are fuel margins and not full prices, but it is this relaxation of margins that has raised prices after all. And one more thing to tell you, Mr. Restoring, please do not relativize the problem, do not relativize the problem! The average has risen in the last year, we're talking about an average car, 25 to 30 euros is not enough, sorry. For those who drive daily to work from faraway places, knowing that the government has done nothing about the public problem to improve public transport, this is huge. Please don't say everything's fine and there's no time for panic. It's time for a big alarm, and the problem is that even after she found out that she had made a mistake with liberalisation, she didn't do anything. You didn't do anything. See the example of Croatia, our neighbours, they have stopped the possibility of rising prices. We didn't do anything. You're just saying that when it's necessary, it's gonna start thinking about what's gonna happen. Look, let's go to energy poverty. This liberalisation is the main reason this is happening. I beg you, Mr. Minister, to say: How and when specifically do you plan to act because all the alarms are ringing?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u70	Dear Member, with the utmost respect, I believe that I have shown that I respect you, despite your allegations that you are misleading and making unnecessary unrest in an area where it is not yet necessary to have it. The government has the opportunity to regulate margin prices by law and will do so as necessary. At the moment, prices are at 2018 and 2019 levels. If matters continue in this direction, we will intervene if possible. However, we will not take a step towards the situation that we will not have any energy at all on the market. In energy, we have three different things: two do not affect basic prices, but gas prices and crude oil prices. A slightly easier situation with regard to regulation and influence is at electricity prices, where 85% is approximately what we need to produce at home from all three sources. If I'm back at oil derivatives prices again, we can correct or regulate margin prices in a short time, but we'll do it on the basis of a thorough analysis. At this point, however, fuel prices are still on the same basis as those in 2018 and 2019. In the meantime, due to covid, the huge decline in demand and the fall in basic prices of crude oil on the world market have also fallen as they have now grown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Koprivc, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Restoring, you really are making a fool of citizens and citizens. I've just shown you how well the prices have risen in recent years, fuel prices. And you say that there is no problem and that it is necessary to wait and let people pay up to 50% more for energy and fuel prices until disability. I'm sorry, but I think that all the alarms in this country are already ringing, that this government also proves, on these non-ideological issues, that it has citizens and citizens literally as its hostages. It is urgent that we discuss this matter at the next meeting. A similar question has already been asked by colleague Bojana Muršič by the Prime Minister of the Government, but the President of the Government has also not given some concrete answers. Otherwise, he spoke of some energy vouchers, but he did not give concrete answers, but now Mr Restoration has confirmed that he is an advocate for the liberalisation of fuel prices despite the fact that it is evident in this area that liberalisation is harmful to citizens and citizens and works in favour of capital. The same can be said for the area of housing policy, where liberalisation has shown where we have come to – that we have an apartment worth 7,000 and more euros per square meter, which only rich people and capitalists can buy and people have no place to live. The same thing happens with fuels. Maybe it's the beginning of the procedure now, but the case will move on. As it has been heard, the government will do nothing yet because there is no crisis. The rise in fuel by 40% in the last year is completely normal. However, once she has found that it might be advisable for her to act, she will act. Then she'll say it's the opposition's fault, or I don't know who, the judiciary, the media, because they're acting against the government, and that's why there's no solution. This is your contract, Mr. Rest. You may be ashamed to advocate such a policy and to insist and maintain the government of John Janša despite the fact that the electorate and the electorate voted for something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u73	Look, let's stick to the procedural proposal and explain the procedural proposal. Do not extend this time you have at your disposal. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 20 October, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Anja Bah Žibert, the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development and EU cohesion policy, Zvonku Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u74	President, thank you so much for your word. I'm glad you warned the predecessor too, or I would have made a procedural proposal myself, because I think some things are going too far. Dear Minister, the whole world is facing a health crisis and, of course, many problems. We in Slovenia are constantly listening and watching the seduction of the dominant media in sonicity with the left political scene, how difficult it is in Slovenia. Now I hear that people are hungry, all the surfaces are cold, but the numbers recorded by Slovenia are different and the numbers are not lying. We can be populist and threaten and so on, but numbers are a fact. Let me at least list some of them. The averages of the municipalities are rising. We raised them first from 628, now 645, which again means a lot of income for local communities. Slovenia is recording the highest percentage of employment in the EU, as high as 3%. Economic growth of 6.3%. Slovenia, this is what my predecessor should hear, recording one of the lowest levels of poverty in the EU. The lowest, Your Honor. We are the safest country in the EU. Finally, we have and are making a number of investments. We're going to invest about $2 billion, 116 million in school and kindergarten. It is happening in the area of infrastructure, in fact, construction sites are at all ends of Slovenia. In short, there is work to be done in the whole area of Slovenia. Of course, this is also with the help of European funds, which is very important. And here is all that makes up the progress of Slovenia: better quality of life, prosperity for all. But I ask you, Your Honor Minister, to say this, because we hear this very little in the media: What is it that would apply in this drawdown of European funds and will be known about people's lives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you so much for asking. Nice greetings to all present, Comrade Minister, Vice-President of the Government! As you know, the current financial perspective 2014-2020 began eight years ago. In financial terms, it was not until two years or three years later, in 2016, when Slovenia absorbed the first 4% of the funds, it is said that more than €3 billion was available for EUR 116 million in 2016. A few months before the swearing of the current government, we or the National Assembly have dealt with alarming data on the poor use of funds from the European funds on the non-functional information system and so on. By March last year, a number of projects were approved under the regional development arrangements, which mainly concern important infrastructure projects in local areas, i.e. in the municipalities for plumbing, sewerage, transport infrastructure and other specific projects. Thus, only one project was approved by March of 72 projects in the field of pipelines and sewerage, and we are now approaching the completion of project approvals in this area. In the care of the elderly, we have witnessed many studies. During the two mandates, when the Ministry responsible for the care of the elderly was run by the Social Democrats, not one new bed was obtained in the State network of homes for the elderly, and now funds are being allocated to this area, which are measured in tens of millions of euros, mainly from the REACT-EU initiative, which is an additional means negotiated under the current financial perspective. Similarly, in the area of health care, housing care. This spring, the government approved the long-term business plan of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, a five-year plan that envisions 5,000 new non-profit rental apartments. And in these days and in these weeks and months, some 100 apartments are concluded in Ljubljana and Maribor and many other environments throughout the Republic of Slovenia. And what is the situation today regarding the implementation of the perspective? Not only are all available funds allocated, but also because of the new needs associated with the covid pandemic, we are in deep overcommitment. Around €3 billion is allocated 500 million, one part of which is that we are on a safe side and the other part in one small part is likely to need to be serviced or from state resources, the resources of the state budget, so that all projects that have been launched in the last year and a half will also be implemented, or from the next financial perspective where possible. So the funds will be spent more than fully. Let me also say that, at the time of this government's term of office, we have recorded a 36% realisation of payments in terms of the available resources, today we are exceeding 63% realisation, by the end of the year we will achieve around 70% realisation of European funds. Or if I translate this into numbers, in the first six years of the financial perspective, by 2020, this realization amounted to about €100 million in six years, in the last two years, that is, at the time of this government's mandate. So, three times faster than in the last two years than in the previous period. Those further negotiated under the REACT-EU initiative will also be used successfully on 21 July last year, which we focus on the economy, particularly those most affected by pandemics, tourism, catering, and health care, where the construction of the building of the home building of the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre and a comprehensive reconstruction, where we allocate around 50 million resources, a number of nursing hospitals per country, Maribor recently, is followed by Murska Sobota, Novo Mesto and so on, the renovation of existing hospitals in various locations across Slovenia, then the provision of older ones, where it is intended to improve existing capacities and obtain adequate facilities for 93 million euros of education, where new information technologies are in particular, and of course also many other areas. During this period a number of other areas have also been supported, which are also related to the situation that is currently taking place. For example, a few million euros have been allocated to energy renovations of private buildings, about 10,000 euros per beneficiary, with the aim of improving the situation or reducing the so-called energy poverty. Investments in public passenger transport have been strengthened – as you know, students and students have an annual ticket of 200 euros for all trips across Slovenia and pensioners, both in Ljubljana and Maribor. Of course, the plans are even more ambitious. Slovenia has significant resources available over the next 10 years. They need to be used wisely throughout the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Colleague Bah Žibert, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Above all, I am pleased that you have also highlighted the means for the so-called reduction of energy poverty and the means that go also to public transport. In fact, the predecessor manipulated exactly how nothing works and happens in these areas. I'm really interested in something. Look, before you took up the role of Minister for Development and EU Cohesion Policy, we've actually listened to the excuses for several years, why we are recording such poor results in the use of funds. You also said today that it was about 36% before you came, and then you actually raised this score once with your team. Was it really just the incompetence of predecessors or did someone literally not want European funds to be used, because then control would also be greater, how these things are used and used when it comes to construction? For we know that many times we also witness various stories when we talk about various places of public money, etc. In this second part, I am interested in your view: Was it purely incompetence, or is it fear that other funds are being checked, where money is actually going, even though some projects are extremely expensive or the most expensive in the world?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u79	Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much for this additional question. I think it went to one side for under-efficiency, under-coordination, including incompetence in one part, if you want. It was that a large part of this cohesion money was devoted to a host of so-called soft projects. These guidelines have been amended in one part and will in particular be amended for the next seven-year financial period. The Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy service is only a management body, and ministries that are intermediate bodies are key in implementation. In the last year and a half, all ministries involved in the implementation of the European cohesion policy have made huge moves forward, particularly in the areas mentioned above, infrastructures, the provision of older people, health care and other areas where specific investments are concerned, specific investments, for resources aimed at improving the well-being of people and which enable improvements in infrastructure equipment for both social infrastructure and municipal infrastructure equipment. Coordination and acceleration in individual ministries and, of course, awareness of what we want to do with these funds both in this period and in the next seven-year or ten-year period by 2030 was crucial. We have concrete projects, concrete programmes, concrete investments in favour of people. I will say this again and again, despite the fact that this is a grant, it is money coming from people through taxes, contributions in different ways, so it is always a fact that this money must be returned to people in different ways and must always be viewed from the euro up to millions and billions and not vice versa from billions down. And these decisions, which are supposed to be taken for the next period, are going in this direction. The decisions taken in the approval of the recovery and resistance plan go in this direction. There are many investments ahead of us in the coming years. It's up to all of us, or we're gonna take advantage of this time in front of Mom. Much easier and much more will be done if we all work together to do this and at least not share in the opposition and coalition in the projects that have been implemented. This is a common approach, to cooperate with the aim of achieving the greatest possible results and with a view to maximising the resources available to us. One part of these funds will certainly also be intended to support the mitigation of individual social pressures of people, which we have also done in the past, and we will do so much more in the future, and of course to address the challenges that are ahead of us due to the irritation of individual energy consumers and all the other consequences that this rapid economic growth has caused on the other hand. In short, we have a time of great investment, big investment, and I believe that we will successfully invest every euro.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Ministry of Labour sent a package of four social and labour laws to the public debate just 14 days ago and named them a mini-social reform. According to the Ministry of Justice, this mini-social reform of yours will make the situation worse for more than 2 000 households. We could talk about this earlier about the mini anti-social reform, which is not exactly a mine for those working families that will be touched. Among the changes are the abolition of the supplement for work activity or its transformation and the reduction of emergency social assistance and the reduction of the child allowance for some families. Of course, in Levica, we oppose any interference with social legislation that would exacerbate the material situation of individuals and families facing poverty. This is all the more true for the time after the outbreak of covida-19, when the material differences between citizens and citizens are deepening. The people of the South are getting expensive, both at rising energy prices and at rising food prices. Well, young people have already faced a notorious lack of public non-profit housing and have been plagued by it for decades. Given that the changes proposed by the Ministry of Labour, namely the Ministry, which should be the first advocate of labour rights and the social well-being of the most vulnerable, the poorest, is absolutely unacceptable not only the content of this mini social reform, but also that this mini social reform has been put into public debate for only 14 days. It was not discussed with the representatives of the workers, nor should the participation of the professional public in the preparation of these regulations last between 30 and 60 days, but not for 14 days. It is certainly not a matter of minor corrections to the legislation that the Ministry wishes to present to us as a proponent, but quite the contrary – these changes, Mr Minister, constitute a major intervention in the social rights of the population and the population, in particular those who will be Tangled. I'm interested in the following: Are the laws in the package of these reforms different from those we saw in the debate? If so, where are these differences? When will the government discuss this package, or when do you expect it to be adopted at the government? Have you given up on proposals that undermine the social security of the population? How many households would lose or reduce social assistance? How many households will lose the right to emergency social assistance? How much do you expect to reduce the child’s allowance or how many children? And I wonder if, according to current suggestions, he still holds that the situation would worsen by 2,000. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr Kordish, thank you very much for your question that I have the opportunity to say again about the key objectives and the assessed social effects of the package of four laws. Let me first put my answer into a broader context. During the coronation we reacted quickly and massively, and these decisions today result in considerable and constant economic growth. We have not had as low unemployment or as high employment as we have today since 2008, despite the still present virus. We have provided people with a better payment for the work done, and we have raised the minimum wage at the beginning of this year. Through education and training, we strengthen the competences and skills of employees and job seekers. We strengthened family policy and eased the family’s financial distress. We have provided free kindergarten for another child if they are both in kindergarten and unconditionally free kindergarten for each of the next children. And with our four proposals for the laws you are referring to, we are pursuing four key objectives. Firstly, the gradual separation of family and social policies – this means that each of them can be more transparent, better targeted and consequently more effective. One of the most common and regular comments in any consideration of laws in this field, including the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, is that this area is totally imprudent, incomprehensible, even for those who are taught. Furthermore, this legislation will simplify the decision-making procedures on annual rights from public funds, effectively issue informational calculations and relieve employees at social work centres. We will allow greater social security for beneficiaries of a protective allowance. We'll change our incentives for work. We will amend the provisions on the payment of monetary social assistance. In fact, if parents do not ensure that the child is present in primary education, we propose the payment of cash social assistance in nature, which will also encourage parents and signal that primary education is the basis for providing it. We will provide adequate assistance to individuals and families facing financial difficulties. The envisaged assessments of the impact of our four laws and, above all, the novels of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the amendment of the Law on Social Security Benefits are contrary to what you have presented. According to our analysis, the proposed amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds will give a higher children's allowance of about 3,000 400 families, which is 1.76% of families. Due to the withdrawal of the property and the withdrawal of the inclusion of the child supplement as income, at least 8 000 students or students, a thousand 100 new, higher state scholarships will receive about 7,000 100 scholarships. Because of the lack of respect for student work and the staff scholarship, at least 9,000 students or students will be added to the better, a thousand 807 new students. A higher state scholarship, as I mentioned, will receive about 7,000 100 scholarships. With a kindergarten grant, which is a summer right, there will be about 2,000 families at a better income class. While we are changing the supplement for work activity from a subsidy to a relief because we believe that incentives are a greater incentive, more fair, less in facilitating the possibility of different interpretations, abuses and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr Minister, I've asked you six very simple factual questions, you've had 5 minutes to answer, you haven't answered one single single question in five minutes. At first you boasted of some evaluation of the measures in the situation of the covida-19 epidemic, which could last, but more likely not, you continued with the minimum wage that you raised under the law that Levic had brought through the National Assembly, and even raised it to the lowest possible level not to the highest level. You talked about jobs and economic growth, which is by no means automatically translated into poverty alleviation and so on. The documentation that you sent to the public debate, Mr Minister, as a mini-social reform, we looked at it in Levica, but nothing simplifies with it, but it deepens the repression of the poor. That is why I repeat the question and hope for a real answer this time and do not quote the document written by the expert colleagues at the Ministry. Are the laws in the package so-called mini social reforms different from those in the public debate? If so, where are the differences? When will the government discuss your package of mini social reforms, or when do you expect it to be adopted at the government? And if you've given up on proposals that undermine the social security of the population? Given what's been said, I'm just guessing not. How many households would lose or reduce social assistance following the current proposal? How many households or persons will lose the right to emergency social assistance? How many children would you expect to reduce the child’s allowance? Does the current proposals still hold that the situation would worsen 2 000 88 households, as was the number that could be seen in the proposals that came into public debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member Kordish! At the beginning of my answer to your question, I have mentioned that the social consequences of this legislation are exactly the opposite of those which you have suggested in your questions. So, the main key objective of this legislation is to phase out family and social policies so that one and the other can be more effective, better targeted and achieve results. The results must, however, go in the direction of supporting families through family policies, supporting the most vulnerable, especially older single women, then people in a financially weaker situation, and not least by taking measures for the labour market to encourage, help, motivate people in the unemployment register to enter the labour market and take responsibility for their lives. Let me repeat the numbers I gave and also answer your questions. Two novels are key to your question. By means of this novel, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds will provide a higher children's allowance of about 3,000 400 families, which is 1.76% of all families. As a result of the withdrawal of property and the inclusion of a child's allowance as income, at least 8 000 students or students, out of which a thousand 100 new recipients of the state grant, and a thousand 100 new, higher state scholarships will receive more than 7,000 scholarships. Because of the lack of respect for student work and the staff scholarship to family income, at least 9,000 students and students, a thousand 807 new ones will be added to the better. With a kindergarten grant, there will be about 2,000 families in one income class. However, we believe it will be more effective to transform the work activity allowance from a subsidy to a relief, as the subsidy provides much less scope to control and prevent the abuse of such a subsidy. Relaxation is much more fair to all who benefit it. Some 5,000 beneficiaries will receive a higher rent subsidy. 138 beneficiaries will be eligible for a new rent subsidy, and approximately 10 000 500 students and students will receive a new state grant in order to determine these new income classes for the State grant. And there are many positive effects, the social impact of this proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to make a procedural proposal for the State Assembly to hold a debate on the answer at its next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to discuss the response of Minister Cigler King to my question for a simple reason that he has failed to answer neither in two separate interventions alone. From a reminder prepared by his professional colleagues, he cited the praise of their anti-social reform by redistributing, within the reforms, from the poor to the rich, for example, the new beneficiaries of scholarships will also be in households receiving €4,000 net income. For the Slovenian situation, they grant scholarships to rich people, while in the material that came into public debate, we can understand that the situation would deteriorate to 2 000 88 households. Your own material that you sent to the public debate, Mr. Minister. Not only do we obviously have to deal with social reform, which is anti-robinhood, super-hikov – it takes the poor and gives to the rich. According to the deficit of answers to my questions, which were very simple, it was also apparently written by the minister, who is extremely incompetent. And, of course, the National Assembly must discuss these two at both points, the performance capacity or incompetence of the Minister and the mini social reform, which is nothing less, at points where working people will actually be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 20 October 2021 in the framework of the votes. Maša Kociper will ask Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary, hello. I am referring to you, as foretold, to the question of the relevance and fulfilment of the PCT condition in our courts. As you are already aware, according to the letter from the Bar and everything else that has happened, the application of the PCT condition in the courts in practice poses major problems and may also mean a derogation from the exercise of the constitutional right to judicial protection. In fact, it requires that participants in court proceedings meet the condition of PCT, of course for some, those who do not want to take part in proceedings are very convenient. We have in court many criminal proceedings where we have accused persons and also civil proceedings where, in particular, the defendants do not want to participate in the hearings, because this is not in their interest, we also have different witnesses who are not interested in coming to court and, of course, that they do not meet the conditions of the PCT, it is a good excuse for them not to take part in the hearing in court. And then, of course, when such proceedings do not take place, there will be a postponement of the proceedings, in some cases, as the Chamber of Counsel specifically informs, the court will postpone the case even for a longer period of time, and in the final case may even prevent the exercise of the judicial authority and the expiry of the case. In short, as Minister of Justice, we do not see you very often in practice, we do not feel that you are a minister at all, but here is an area where I think we should take a very firm stand on the side of the justice you represent and work with the Government to ensure that this condition is not applied. Because, as it is said, customers abuse him and there can be very negative consequences. That this condition is meaningless and that it is necessary to act differently here, in addition to the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia has also warned the profession, says some presidents of the courts and also the Council of Justice. I know you've put yourself in some position, some interpretation, but here it would be the only place to change this regulation and request an exception to the specific functioning of the judiciary. I want to know: What else do you intend to do about eliminating the PCT condition in our courts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. In opening, let me point out that, as a key necessity, I must point out that the parties to judicial proceedings must be provided with a constitutional right to judicial protection and a remedy. With regard to the decision on the fulfilment of the condition of disease, vaccination and testing for the prevention of the spread of coronary infections, which is also mentioned in your question, it should be said that the Ministry of Justice has been informed of these specific problems, which, in practice, are meant for participants in judicial proceedings and also for the exercise of the constitutional right to judicial protection. The failure to comply with the PCT condition may also constitute an excuse for non-participation in judicial proceedings, particularly those parties who are not interested in the court proceedings themselves, such as suspects, accused persons in criminal proceedings, or accused parties in civil proceedings and so on. However, to point out, the epidemic has led to a certain stagnation in the judicial proceedings and also their time extension due to failure to comply with the PCT condition, perhaps by just one party, and then these main hearings must be postponed or, I don't know, because of the replacement of the Chambers even resume. All of this, of course, can lead to even a failure to exercise judicial authority at the end. That is why I convened a meeting at the Ministry to clarify the open questions concerning the interpretation and implementation of the Decree on 27 September, at which the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Health, together with his fellow workers, were present. So at the meeting, we identified open issues, pointed out possible solutions, and in fact also agreed on an effective further communication to address this problem, which is emerging. After the meeting, the Ministry of Justice found that, together with the extremely creative cooperation of the Ministry of Health, which is also responsible for interpreting the decision, it was necessary to interpret the decision already in force in a constitutional manner in order to ensure that the parties, participants and others involved in judicial proceedings within the meaning of the decree are not users of the service or are not involved or present in the conduct of the activity or in the environment in the Republic of Slovenia. This is about the exercise of the state's authority. It was also found that, in the course of the proceedings, it was also important that the provision of a decision under which persons who come to court in the function of performing their work or profession, such as a lawyer or a judicial officer, fulfil this condition if they are screened with a rapid antigen test carried out once a week at the same intervals. The Ministry also briefed the Supreme Court, the District Court in Ljubljana, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Attorney's Office, the Council of Justice, the State Prosecutor's Chamber, the Notary Chamber, the Board of Governors, the Chamber of Executives and the Expert Council on Judicial Enforcement, Appreciation and Interpretation. And as Minister of Justice, I am convinced that such an interpretation of the decision, while pursuing the objective and purpose of the decision adopted, enables the effective implementation of the judiciary, the conduct of judicial proceedings and access to the courts, while ensuring respect for the principle of equal treatment in the pursuit of compliance with the conditions [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u95	Sorry, time's up. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I like that in your response you have repeated all the dilemmas and have further reinforced what is happening in practice in order to meet this condition, the problems that arise. But giving an explanation at a meeting, as you can see, is not enough. As far as I'm aware, the problems remain. And for those stakeholders, you have also pointed out to some those who do not have any interest in continuing proceedings against them, and such an explanation is not sufficient for them. There are already many concerns in the public, and obviously in this area, as the Council of Justice has pointed out, about how certain issues are dealt with under-laws. And if you think that by accepting an explanation, you solved that problem, you didn't. The Supreme Court also, as I understand it, does not follow your interpretation and has accepted any other explanation that the judge himself will determine in specific cases whether this provision should be respected or not. In short, the Regulation should be amended and an exception should be laid down, as other exceptions are provided for. This should be done immediately, because problems are already coming. As you yourself have said, in some cases there may even be a replacement of the Senate and it will be necessary to start the process from the beginning, there may be an obsolescence and so on. So I'm asking you specifically: Do you think that you are responsible for the justice sector and for its effective functioning to propose an amendment to the regulation and to make a specific exception for the courts? Clearly, this explanation, which you have adopted at a meeting, is not working and does not have the effect that it should have in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Surely there is a need, but we are in a situation such as that of the Coronavirus, and we must find some balance on the one hand with regard to health protection and on the other hand with regard to the effective exercise of judicial authority. And I believe that with what we have agreed, this is somehow balanced, that is to say, to ensure both the protection of human health and the exercise of judicial authority. Theoretically, as I have mentioned, you have mentioned that even the procedure must be reopened. But so far we have not had such cases in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u100	That's the answer I want, yes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u101	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u102	I do not understand this response that we have not had such cases in practice. Examples are in practice, problems are, in practice, arise. In your letter to the Bar, you have specifically written 5, 6 cases of what is happening in practice. And once again, I warn you to take a position at a meeting where everyone involved can agree or direct possible solutions and agree on effective further communication, that is nothing. You, as District Minister of Justice, must ensure that justice works effectively. Also, according to the Council of Justice’s warning on what acts may interfere with the functioning of the courts, a decree is the least that should be changed. Change the decree and determine the exceptions. Just because you gave an explanation at a meeting isn't enough for people. They simply refer to the fact that this is not an appropriate act, that the act does not regulate it and so on. And, of course, they do well to avoid trial. I appeal to you to change this decree. And, of course, I propose, within the framework of the business possibility, that this question be addressed, however, as regards how to ensure that the rights of judicial protection and access to justice are exercised normally and that rights are protected in judicial proceedings are protected, that a debate is held in the National Assembly and that we are here to discuss how to find a middle place between the right to health, which also belongs to judges and other judicial personnel, and to this important right to exercise rights in judicial proceedings and judicial protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 20 October 2021 in the framework of the votes. Janja Sluga will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Vice President. Apparently, the whole day will be somehow marked by a very important topic, this is an increase in energy prices. Given that this increase actually has an impact on all citizens and citizens, on the economy, on households and so on, I think it is the same. On 1 October, one year has passed since this government released energy prices. If I recall that period, I must say that at that time we Members were faced with certain facts and received a promise that, of course, the price of gasoline would not rise, that they would be even lower and so on. However, prices show the following situation: on 1 October 2020, we are able to fuel about 1 euro on petrol pumps, and today we will soon be able to talk about 50% of the price. At the moment, the price of 95-octane petrol is 1.33 euros and the price of diesel is 1.44 euros. Why is that important? Because we already know the practice of the past when prices for the final consumer began to rise in this account for other goods. When we come into a vicious circle, when we are not just talking about the impact on households that are just trying to recover from the underlying crisis, we are also talking about the impact on the economy. And when we talk about the economy, we're talking 99% about small and medium-sized enterprises, which are going to be as impressive as they're going to be, let's say for business customers by about 30%, for households by 20, both are huge. You, as the competent minister for the economy, should, of course, focus on this and give clear answers to what this government will do to prevent or mitigate these increases.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you so much for asking. Your Honor, the National Assembly! Thank you for talking about this important topic for consumers and for the economy. Of course, as Minister of Economic Development and Technology, I am not responsible for the energy sector or the state of the energy market, but the issue of high energy prices is still directly and directly linked to the economy, so we want to make a creative contribution to the right solutions. At the same time, I have the power, the possibility, the duty to regulate the market where appropriate. As you know, rising energy prices have occurred at global level not only in Slovenia. And oil prices in global markets are nearing an absolute record. As a result, prices also rose in the field of oil derivatives in Slovenia. However, I have to say again that the prices of oil derivatives were not released last year, they were released in three parts, namely in 2016, 98 octane gasoline and gas-fired oil, in the next stage, in the previous government, the prices of oil derivatives on the motorway cross and last year the last part outside the motorway cross. That's what I'd like us to always say clearly and loudly over and over again. Secondly, firstly, if we are talking about oil derivatives, the price consists of three parts: the price on the world market, the price or the allowance represented by excise duty and the various regulations adopted in relation to the green transition, and thirdly, the margin of the traders. And we've only deregulated the margins to merchants. The price of oil on the world market affects the final price of more than 40% and the price of the deregulation margin is only 7-8%. It should be said that there is a specific phenomenon of price rises, that excessive, disproportionate and long-term adverse effects on the functioning of the energy market need to be maintained. On Thursday, the government has already addressed comprehensive information on this issue, and we have examined a set of acceptable measures that could be successfully implemented and helped to the economy and citizens, and the framework for these interventions has already been prepared by the European Commission. Agreements continue today in the direction of proper action. With regard to current developments, we will therefore react appropriately this time with coordinated action. We effectively want to help the economy and consumers as we are at the time of the covid epidemic. I can say that Slovenia is in general good condition and statistics confirm this, so I am optimistic that we will find appropriate measures. Of course, it is necessary to know that we can take different measures in different areas of energy. We have three kinds of energy in our graves. In the case of a gas wholly imported, the final prices cannot be affected. We can freeze and limit the price and then we won't have the energy. In electricity, however, the situation is easier, although not so simple, 85% of everything we need is produced by ourselves from all three different sources of coal, nuclear work, water, but half of it is exported and I believe that we will do the easiest thing here, if necessary, but I hope that it will not be in the long run. Thirdly, only 6 to 7 % of the price can be applied to oil derivatives prices. I'm telling you again. We will and we will be in the final stage of the analysis after releasing the prices of petroleum derivatives, as far as this margin has affected, and we will also reintroduce the regulated margin calculation uncompromisingly. But this is not a key solution. We need to look ahead and find solutions that will be long-term and that will allow consumers, on the one hand, to cope more easily with this crisis and, on the other hand, the economy, to continue its competitive business.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u108	As you know - well, I don't know if you know - last week there was a very interesting event at Bled and at this event Mr Fatih Birol of the International Energy Agency explained in great detail the reasons for the rise in energy prices. And these causes are significantly broader and more difficult than you have just explained. Why? He was talking about three reasons. He spoke of large economic growth, which is global at about 6% at the moment, of which the vast majority in fossil speeches. He was talking about the second cause of extreme weather conditions and the third cause of disruption in supply. If we look at all these three reasons in detail, we can figure out what? That these causes won't stop tomorrow, but that they'll stay in the long run. Which means a long-term risk of even more rising energy prices. Other countries, such as Spain, France, Greece, Italy, are already taking measures to protect both people and the economy. The biggest mistake of this epidemic was bad communication, and this error is now repeated in this case. Why? Because people don't have information about what you're gonna do. I call on you to make public, loud and clear what measures will be taken and that people and the economy, which is your area, as I said in 99 per cent of small and medium-sized enterprises that will be most affected by what they can expect from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you. Once again, in addition to the analysis and presentation of the current situation on the EU market and on the Slovenian energy market, the red thread has all warned that disproportionate and long-term damage to the functioning of the energy market will have to be sustained in line with European principles for the functioning of the internal energy market. This means that our supply of energy, electricity, natural gas and fuel is also a market activity. On this subject, the European Union summit will be held this week. We are preparing measures, we will not prejudge anything, but I can say clearly and loudly that we will not leave consumers behind in a retail sense or consumers in this economic sense. I would like to point out once again that it is best to interfere with price regulation in the way it was done in the previous country - to set the highest energy prices and, on the other hand, to lose all these goods for a wide consumer share and for the economy itself. That's what we want, and we'll avoid it. However, we will take appropriate measures and implement them quickly. In any case, we will follow the practices that the other Member States of the European Union have addressed or will address. However, I can say that, at this point in time, despite all the reasons you have been talking about, we must also talk, to a large extent, about the speculative approach of those who control energy. And two of the three that you mentioned, at the moment, the state of Slovenia, except for the influence of the margin of traders that distribute it to us, cannot affect gas and petroleum derivatives. The situation is easier, yet difficult, in the field of electricity. I believe that in the event that there will be an increase in the amount of aid, we will also address it in such a way that there will be no consequences. At the moment, however, speculation and in practice, at the end of these drastic movements are still at the forefront. And also for the oil derivatives you are talking about, prices are on the level from 2018 and 2019. If you compare prices to the covidal period, when demand has fallen drastically, that is also true. But today the prices of oil derivatives on petrol pumps are at 2018 level, 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u112	I will, of course, take advantage of this procedural proposal, Mr Vice-President. Otherwise why? Because, in the Minister's reply, when it refers to the European Commission's emphasis on the need to abstain from some measures, long-term measures by interfering with the market, it does not, of course, say that the European Commission has also cited short- and medium-term measures that are possible and are already possible and are already being adopted by other countries, as I said: Spain, France, Greece, Italy and so on. The European Commission has already made a very clear proposal to this government for a set of measures, including mentioning vouchers, partial payments of invoices, temporary suspension of payments of accounts, targeted reduction of tax rates, protection against exclusion from the network for those unable to pay and State aid for businesses. The European Commission has already provided us with a medium-term set of measures. However, I cannot agree that the Minister refers only to an 8% margin which should not have an impact on the price, but if it is very clear that the Commission is proposing other measures. And it was also very clear a year ago when you promised the Minister that prices would not rise and that you would act immediately if they did. Prices have risen substantially. People are no longer able to do this, even if you refer to them as being at the level of other European countries, the wages of these people are not at the level that they are in other European countries. And that's what people know today. And he'll know himself even more in the future. And if we just talk in general, the government will act, the government will act, and people don't feel and know it, and they can't rely on it, then it's again – what? Scare people and broken promises.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 20 October 2021 in the framework of the votes. Mojca Žnidarič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister of Environment and Space mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister Jernej Vrtovec and Mag. Andrej Vizjak! A bad year ago, I had already asked an oral question on this subject and hoped that the last two decades ahead of construction would be difficult to expect and urgently needed road links to Ormož-Hajdin. At that time, we optimistically expected to plant the first shovel in May. But apparently there have been further complications again and the building permit for the second section of Gorišnica-Markovci has not yet been issued. A few months ago, I noticed on Darsa’s website that a decision on the recognition of the ability of three of the six suppliers or applicants to build this road had been published. But I also heard that there have been certain complaints. Since field activities have not yet begun, I am interested in the following: When can we expect to obtain a building permit for the section of Gorišnica-Markovci? The building permit for the first section of Ormož-Gorišnica has been valid since 2007. What are the reasons for the prolonged acquisition of this building permit, which we know is being carried out through an integrated procedure? How far is the procedure for selecting the contractor of the section from Ormož to Markovci? When will the contractor of this construction be definitively selected? When will the construction of these two sections begin? How does the working group working on the installation of this road around Ptuj work? Are those three variants of routes that will go into the further assessment process already selected? You are certainly aware that the local community strongly opposes the S4 route, this is the route for which more than 10 years ago the construction of this road completely stopped. When is the installation of this part of the route that is necessary so that the inhabitants of the Lower Podravje can join the highway network? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Which one's first? Mr. Minister Wrotec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much for the question, Mrs Žnidarič. Dars has been working for a long time to obtain a building permit for the construction of the section of Gorišnica - Ormož, he holds. A building permit has already been obtained from Ormož to Gorišnica. By knowing that there are complex procedures and that it also opposes the building permit on this first part of the route. The administrative procedures for issuing the permit and the key other documents, which are a prerequisite for its issuance, are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space and I believe that Minister Vizjak will then respond. Unfortunately, however, a negative opinion on nature protection has been issued recently in the context of the integrated process of issuing a building permit, which has further made the procedures more difficult. And the key causes of problems in obtaining administrative permits and consensus are exclusively environmental protection and nature conservation. And I must say, unfortunately, despite all the efforts so far, the building permit has not yet been obtained. The key open issue is, in fact, still spreading, as I said, to the first part of Ormož-Gorišnica, for which a building permit has already been issued in the past. What's the problem? There's a problem in the birds that are supposed to be threatened by a new fast road. As I know, Dars did all the necessary studies, he also submitted them to the Department of Nature Protection, but it was still, it seems, a failure. The process of selecting the contractor because we wanted to conduct the procedure as parallel as possible to the acquisition of the building permit was announced by Dars himself and is currently in the stage of recognition of the capability, which is in fact the first phase of the selection process of the contractor. I can say that with these procedures we are just waiting for this moment, because the real start of these two sections is really exclusively linked to the acquisition of a building permit and not so much to the tender itself. The call will be completed very soon. It's some sort of complaint, but it's not relevant in this respect. I'm more concerned about the building permit than when we can get the call to the end. As far as S4 is concerned, the working group and the process of preparing and receiving the DPN shall be run by the ILO. We're working with investor Dars in this process. The problem of the group's operation, which unfortunately could not be overcome, is in particular in determining the options themselves, which will also be examined in detail in the variant study itself. Dars and I estimate that the variant of the route in the northern corridor, which has already been identified once as potentially appropriate in the past, cannot be excluded from further evaluation without a broader professional assessment of all relevant criteria in the scope of the variant study. We are not talking about the S4 variant anymore, but about the optimized S4 variant, which Dars and I have already discussed with the local community. So it's a new framework on this. All southern variants of the period are eliminated, there is Natura and it is not possible, but let's say the S4, which is optimized, is still possible because the price is the most favourable compared to S5, but we speak optimized and in agreement with the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Vizjak, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Respected, the procedure for issuing an integral building permit for the section of the main road of the first order Markovci-Gorišnica is under way. Opinions of the opinion of the opinion-makers have been obtained and, unfortunately, the negative opinion of the Department of Nature Protection has also been obtained. In this project we face one common situation in the Republic of Slovenia, when we have at least a quadrilateral, on the one hand of course an investor of the Infrastructure Directorate, on the other hand a civil initiative that looks at some of its legal benefits or interests, and then we have local communities that have some of their own interests again, and then, of course, we have opinioners here, in particular the Department of Nature Protection, which also has its limitations. Unfortunately, this particular section of the compromise has not yet been reached. We now expect the investor to complete the documentation with the requirements of that opinion of the Institute of Nature Protection. And the task force can't cut through this Gordy knot because it's the same thing as all the stakeholders that I've counted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request, to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you both for this insidious information. I've been monitoring the project myself for several years, over five years. I have to say that I have felt or feel that this time, indeed, the government, the ministry, the DARS, we are all working hand in hand, but now this nature protection agency has been found and people cannot be understood, because everyone knows, for 20 years, we have been fighting for this road and construction permit, as you said, for the first section has been issued since 2007 and is valid. I have checked this in the previous term, this is because the construction started there, and we cannot understand that it is now interfering with this first part. And we are not Ormozans and not Centers and those who are very hard to wait for on this road against nature. You must know that in Ormož we have more than 50 hectares of natural reserve lagoon. These lagoons were donated by Ormož Municipality and former owners of the sugar factory to birds and there is a really nice reserve of birds. That's why we all don't understand that the Department of Nature Protection is actually nagging us now, because this road is going to the edge, maybe it's going a few meters through Nature, when it's given them so much. The Municipality of Drava Centre regulates the landscape part of the whole near Drava. They all work hand in hand with this nature protection agency. Therefore, the mayors of Lower Podravje also require a meeting with the Ministry and the Department of Nature Protection as soon as possible. And I hope that some compromise is still possible, because this is not life, down there, somewhere far behind the tail, more than two hours to Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u122	In accordance with the Habitat Directive, the Office of Nature Protection is also a central national institution whose opinion cannot be overtaken by anyone, either me as minister or Parliament or by the Constitutional Court. This is an independent expert body which issues an opinion on certain professional grounds. Whether I agree with this or not is, of course, another issue. Perhaps I have some warm advice, given that I also have quite a few personal experiences with such situations, that it is worth insisting on and getting to the bottom of the matter. I would therefore suggest that if this option, which has in fact been the subject of an assessment by the Institute for the Protection of Nature, and if it is possible to meet their requirements in this opinion, it is necessary to do so, irrespective of the route through Nature, it is possible to find a solution and compromise in the appropriate exercise of other public benefits over the public benefit of nature conservation and with appropriate compensatory measures. So I would suggest a slightly more intensive work at this professional level in weighing and meeting the requirements of the institution. But it is also possible to go back to some new options, some new things, but all that, I think, only prolongs the procedures. So at the end of the day we will have to find an agreement and from the Ministry of Environment and Space we are still ready to go some mediation between the investor and the institution in terms of achieving a positive opinion on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the other ministers, especially Mr Podgorsk and everyone else in the hall! What I heard a little bit earlier about the Ormož road almost smoothed me out, but well, that's not the subject of my question, my question is quite different. The last year and a half has been chaotic in all areas. They say when the devil has young, he has many. The last year in Slovenia has somehow confirmed this proverb. Not only have we been hit by covid, but farmers and people in the countryside have been hit too often. For several years now, we have been facing various natural impacts that are destroying agricultural crops in one way or another. There was nothing different this year, either. In April, nature destroyed many people’s crops and, as a result, the possibility of overincome. It is commendable that those injured by the Act on measures to remedy the effects of the cold in agricultural production between 5 and 9 April 2021 allowed them to at least partially recover the damage. Let me remind you that we have also dealt with this intervention law on the agricultural home committee and we have also unanimously supported it. The residents of Ormož, I suppose everywhere in Slovenia, have even received a form to report damage these days, because it is also commendable, but it still has a bit of a breakdown here. In fact, evidence of injury caused by the cold in the form of pictures of the insurance lists is required. Maybe it's a habit in cities to paint anything and put it online, but we don't have it on farmers. When a problem arises, we solve it, and as a result, few farmers take pictures of the damage. This has never been done, required. If we knew this was necessary, maybe someone would have taken the time. Also, many people do not have regulated insurance, so they cannot prove damage by means of a valuation sheet. In the event that I was correctly informed, the Regulation on the methodology for assessing injury in its Article 45 provides for a Commission assessing the injury. Neither the intervention law itself nor the measures itself and the related laws do not provide for any evidence of damage to agriculture by means of pictures and valuation lists. That's why I want to know: Has there been an error in the above-mentioned forms? Was there any addition at that time to the fact that the injury had to be demonstrated in that manner? If not, is there any particular reason why victims must prove harm in such a way? If so, how can citizens today prove this harm? I believe that the intervention law has been passed in order to help, but at least in the Armenian district it currently brings more headstrong and ill will than anything else. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, fellow Ministers! The question you have raised is particularly relevant in those days when the period of time is to be completed, when an application is to be submitted with a description of the damage caused by the cold this year. I also associate myself with the view that we are probably in one of the worst periods for agriculture in the last year and a half in the history of Slovenian agriculture, but the problems are not over, and this is one of the problems that caught Slovenian farmers this year. Let me add that you're absolutely right about the question. Nothing has changed since the last few years in this part, and our intervention law does not require specific evidence, imaging material, images in terms of proof. It also does not provide for mandatory adaptation of the records on the assessment of damage by the insurance undertaking. Therefore, with the Protection and Rescue Authority, which is responsible for the production of damage — not the ICGP, but the Protection and Rescue Authority — it is agreed that all applications, even if they do not have the proposed annexes, will be treated equally. Therefore, it is ensured that applications that do not have the image material and the record of the insurance undertaking will not be discarded and will all be entered into the so-called AJDA assessment form and then the municipal commissions, together with the Protection and Rescue Authority, will make a final inventory of the damage caused by the delay in early April of this year, and on this basis also, thanks to the adopted intervention law, will be able to distribute the funds envisaged to assist those who have suffered the greatest damage. On this preprinted form, this is proposed as an annex to the application itself, but these missing data will not give rise to any rejection. So, farms, agricultural holdings should fill out this pre-printed form, send it back, even if they do not have this evidence, because then the task of municipal commissions together with the Protection and Rescue Authority is to complete the census, and as I said, this will not be a reason to reject any application. However, if someone was preparing it – I agree that this is not a habit on farms – I fully agree with this – but this possible picture, if any, provides greater security for the agricultural economy itself. But once again, that won't be a reason for you to refuse your applications.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you to the Minister for his encouraging answers regarding this form or for reporting damage. However, another additional question arises to me, as it was envisaged in the Official Journal that, by the 60-day deadline of 5 September of this year, applications with 60 daily deadlines would fall. Then they got one. 10. I have one such form, the beneficiaries of a form to report damage due to the effects of the cold in the current agricultural production. I want to know how it's only one now. This 10th form, why wasn't it possible already in September? I don't know. It's unclear to me, these dates don't go together. That's what I'm most interested in. For many, if he has not applied on the official website or any other way, have now received a form in his hands. So I'm not getting along here. It's like there's two parts to this application. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much for that question. A description of the damage is always made at the time of harvesting. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 1 / 1 9. Early deadline for the actual damage inventory, while we were doing a damage assessment almost days after the cold in mid-April. I myself had the opportunity on the ground to see the effects of this year's cold personally. During this year, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber has always sent us a slightly more accurate assessment, as nature sometimes reacts in its own way. In particular, in most parts, I am not talking about everything, but in most of the wine sector, it appears that this year is a very interesting harvest, because the cold has reduced crops so much that we will have exceptional quality. And for wine growers – I speak on average, but surely the positions that have been significantly more affected and will also receive assistance – some of the average wine growing sites, including the information from the vine growers talk about this, the damage is lower than we expected immediately in April after the frost. Well, the application always works when we make the harvest. That's when the actual damage is seen, we're not talking about the evaluation anymore, we're talking about the damage inventory, and that's why these procedures are running for so long. In the years ahead of us, on the basis of which we have prepared this intervention law, they have followed exactly the same timetable, and this time we will also do our utmost to pay the compensation envisaged as soon as possible. But I fear that before April next year there will be no need to rotate the entire circle and actually have all the data on the actual damage on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you very much again, chairman. Thank you, Minister, for that additional answer. Now it's completely understandable how and what. Of course, it is also an interesting fact, as you yourself stated, that it will only pay all beneficiaries in the second quarter of 2022. I get that. I have the opportunity to hold a debate on this subject, not only on this subject, but perhaps even on the broader issue of the disasters that are taking place and the colds that have been brought down one by one in recent years, in order to have a wider debate. Although I don't believe it's going to happen, I'm still taking advantage of that possibility. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 20 October 2021 in the framework of the votes. Mag. Dejan Kaloh will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u134	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. Thank you also to the Minister for his responsibility for the questions sent, because we know that he already has further obligations, which he has also announced, so I will be really expedient and fast. Dear Minister, at the Ministry you run, you are speeding up the placement of the long-awaited railway routes between Maribor and Ljubljana. You have begun to make professional bases, and of course the proposal for accommodation in space will follow. The goal is only one – that the Styrians, who work in Ljubljana, are one large group of people, this travel time shortens to 55 minutes, which means some competitiveness of car travel. Recently, I think last week, you also said that certain extensions in this direction were already made. That's why I'm interested in: Has the initiative to put the railway between Maribor and Ljubljana already been put into place? When can we, dear Minister, really expect to sit down at the Maribor train station on the train and drive to Ljubljana in a bad hour, do you have any time stamps yet? Of course, according to one of the most optimistic scenarios, placing in space will be running and construction will also be fast and efficient. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We have also prepared a thorough analysis, a vision for the development of rail transport. In this vision is also Ljubljana–Maribor 55 minutes. The following year, at the beginning of the year, we will place this line in space and then, you need to know, say Ljubljana–Kranj is placed for seven years, Ljubljana–Kamnik for six years. So this moment I have no answer as to how much time Ljubljana–Maribor is being placed, but I am counting that in 2031, 2030, for example, we could take this route. For it is not a whole new line, but a new line on separate sections. However, it is essential that we come from reinforced rail transport on this route, because if we want to achieve all climate goals and so on, it is essential that people from Maribor, Celje, from Ptuj and so on decide to reach Ljubljana by train, not by car. 55 minutes is a real story. What's more, it's no connection to talk, because trains reach speeds and so on. And the goal is that we also reach the so-called tactical trains, which are said to be at 15 minutes as fast as possible and which are less likely to stop. That's why we have arranged park and ride stations to get people to sit down, leave their car there and then have a train for their office and so on. For example, we were in Lithuania for the last time – this is the fourth most popular railway station in Slovenia, so there will be no mistake, very many people in Zasavje decide to take the train to Ljubljana – and you know, there is a reference to the railway infrastructure really to the outdoor museum, but this is in the same corridor. This railway infrastructure really needs to be changed in order to make it more user-friendly, to make it more economical and, in particular, faster. So, Ljubljana–Maribor 55 minutes within 10 years is an optimistic scenario, but everything depends on putting into space and on the other requirements that are involved. This is about the specificity of the route and you need to be aware that, say, there will be a huge amount of dialogue also with various civil initiatives, other interests, nature protection institutions and everything that belongs to it. There's a lot of work to be done to bring this thing to an end in 10 years. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Edward Paulič will present the question to the Minister of Finance of Magi. Mr Andrej Širclj, who is a percentage by 5 p.m. and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hospitality and tourism are certainly two sectors that were among the most affected at the time of the epidemic. Although the government has taken certain measures that have been more or less effective. In LMŠ we have pointed out in practice in all the laws of the CAP that some measures are too specific. Here I am thinking mainly of the need for measures to be divided into sectors that are closed by government decrees and those that could have worked during the epidemic. As mentioned above, hospitality and tourism have been closed to most of the government-declared epidemics. We have also warned of the introduction of tourist vouchers. This measure has not helped everyone alike, but mostly tourist destinations and those legal persons who have offered or offered accommodation or bed and breakfast. The fact is that only part of the catering industry benefited indirectly from this measure. Looking back, we can see that after the issue of tourist vouchers, the prices of accommodation have been quite encouraging, and this is also one of the negative effects of these vouchers. The fact is that it is becoming less attractive for foreign tourists in view of these recent promotions by Slovenia. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia recently conducted a survey on the hospitality situation and found that since the start of the verification of the condition PCT traffic has fallen to the majority and 92% of the guests. Most of them fell by between 30% and 50%, while 38% of them were considering firing employees. In short, I take it as a call from the guest industry to help the country. I therefore ask both ministers or the Minister of Economy: Is the Government considering a temporary reduction in the VAT rate for hospitality and possibly tourism?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u140	Dear Member Edward Paulic, distinguished National Assembly, chairman! Thank you for asking. Over the past two years, hospitality and tourism have suffered the greatest income loss. Since the outbreak, the country has reacted quickly. With eight aid packages and an additional tourism intervention law, we have encouraged the hospitality to survive and start tourism after the first and second waves of the epidemic and have preserved many jobs. In tourism, €1 billion of state aid was invested, almost one third of what the economy received. Without these measures, the situation would be much worse, and I believe that we have helped tourism greatly. We've been helping at two levels. In maintaining jobs where we subsidised waiting for work, reduced working hours, quarantine allowances, monthly basic income and fixed costs. With this item, I will say that there was a fixed cost refund, also for the other €109 million invested – I will tell you later why I mention it here – the annual regress and so on. In promoting consumption through tourist vouchers, we have somehow increased the use of services. The ratings are different, we decided on the vouchers because we wanted the tourist economy to work without giving it money for not working. Of course, it was necessary, and it is still necessary for guests to come to you, to invest some funds, to make an effort to make use of the vouchers. The section for hospitality and tourism of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has already taken the initiative to apply a special lower VAT rate to catering services. We believe – and I will explain why – that such an intervention would be uneven and not have an immediate effect. We are in the dilemma of whether to do what our northern neighbours have done, and temporarily reduce VAT or cover fixed costs for companies, decided otherwise. Therefore, I mentioned earlier that, with fixed costs, companies were able to cover the story in the same title. In catering and tourism, food services are charged and paid at a VAT rate of 9,5 per cent and from the service of drinks to a general rate of 22 per cent. For tourist accommodation, VAT is charged and paid at a lower, 9.5% rate, and some other tourist services are already taxed at a lower level – the transport of persons, their personal luggage, exhibition tickets, theatres, museums, sightseeing tours, cinema and music events, circuses, fairs, amusement parks, zoos, similar cultural events and sports events, the use of sports facilities. The reduction of tourist, catering services to a particularly reduced rate of 5% is difficult to justify, while supplies are intended to meet the basic needs of the final consumers – food, supply, water, medicines, medical devices, are taxed at a 9.5% rate. The impact of the reduced VAT rate on the actual reduction in prices and, as a result, on the increase in consumption is very uncertain, so once again I say that in the dilemma between which path we decide to choose, we have decided to partially cover the fixed costs in which EUR 109.4 million was invested. But we can't cover one story twice. That's the key reason we decided to do what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Chairman. In addition to Austria, which you mentioned, this measure was decided by eight European countries. In Germany, for example, this measure will be extended until the end of 2022. You mentioned that you have taken a decision between a measure to reimburse fixed costs or a measure to reduce VAT, the fact that they have both measures abroad at the same time. What I have already pointed out in the introductory part is that the measures were the same for everyone. You mentioned a fixed cost measure – of course you offered it, but to everyone, whether they were closed or could operate. And this is what I point out that the measures are too selective, too little targeted. The fact is that the VAT reduction would be a measure that would not lead to an increase in prices, as was the case with tourist vouchers. Prices would be very likely to remain the same for consumers, but more money would be left for the guests to cover their costs. Therefore, in view of the latest survey by the guest section, I would ask you to reconsider, to reconsider, to see how this measure has been taken abroad, to reconsider the reduction of VAT or any other measure that would help the guest industry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you for the supplementary question. Once again, I have to say that hospitality and tourism have received the greatest contribution from all the Slovenian economy, over €1 billion, that we have decided to partially cover fixed costs, and we believe that these measures, which have been given to hospitality and tourism, have contributed to the fact that businesses and jobs have remained. But he says we haven't addressed three problems. I also said a lot about this on Slovenian Tourism Days days ago – that we have in preparation a measure to address three areas that have not been addressed by these eight PKPs and the intervention law. These are: the problems of urban hotels, the reception agencies, the real agencies that bring guests to Slovenia, because because the border crossing was closed, the most affected, and the meeting industry. We intend to address or address this problem with a specific aid package under the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you. I must say, Minister, I am pleasantly surprised that you will offer assistance to these three other areas which are certainly not sufficiently addressed by the measures so far. I would still rely on this survey of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The survey was carried out among several catering companies. If I understand you correctly, you are not planning any additional measures in the area of hospitality. Once again, I will reiterate that 38% of the guests are thinking about firing employees. At the very least, I would like a general debate to take place in the National Assembly on this subject, and perhaps more broadly on the subject of tourism. Presidents, I propose that this debate be held at the next meeting in accordance with the business arrangements.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 20 October 2021 in the framework of the votes. Mag. Meira Hot will ask Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has apparently accepted a very general, and the situation shows the extremely harmful thesis that Slovenian health care must deal only with covid during the epidemic and everything else can wait. Already such a great shortage of timely medical treatment of our citizens and citizens has turned into an unprecedented disaster. This catastrophe not only creates the rights of our citizens and citizens to timely and quality health care, endangers their lives, causes them pain and trauma, as a result of which we witness unacceptable stories of people on the verge of despair. As the desperate parents of a four-year-old boy who was in a cell hospital in burns waited 40 minutes in excruciating pain for appropriate treatment because doctors did not want to take him without a negative covid test. It is an unjustified conduct of the authorities, and regrettably, it is not enough that people’s testimony is not to come to a doctor, that their telephones, after decades of phone calls to health institutions, are ringing in empty, too. If I can sum it up. In Slovenia today, timely medical treatment has become a mere lottery, not a right for which all citizens and citizens contribute from their own pockets. And the consequences, Mr. Minister? We probably don't even want to imagine what it is - and I don't exaggerate if I say so - the apocalypse is waiting for us after the covida epidemic. They're talking about cancer epidemics and other chronic diseases. The fact that you are hearing so much about today, by the way, is that Slovenia is facing all too many cases of undiscovered or unfortunately too late detected cancer. In the first wave of the epidemic alone, almost a third of cancer diagnosis was placed. If patients reach a doctor when the disease has progressed and the treatment of cancer is delayed, both survival and quality of life are reduced. Not to mention how unsustainablely long sick people have to wait for checks and surgeries. 117 thousand people are waiting in line for diagnostics, surgery or surgery. A year and a half waiting for an rheumatological examination, more than half a year for a first examination with a cardiologist, one year for knee and hip surgery and two years for spinal surgery. In the light of all the above, Mr. Secretary, I ask: How could it have happened that a four-year-old boy was not immediately treated in an E.R.? What will happen if such cases no longer occur? Where's health reform? With what systemic solutions will you solve the catastrophic health situation, since it is more than obvious that our system is collapsing in front of our eyes? Is the key reason for the unsustainable waiting periods a shortage of doctors and nurses, or do you think there are other reasons? What specific measures will you keep young doctors in Slovenia? When can nurses expect an increase in wages? How will you improve the organisation and management of Slovenian hospitals?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u150	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members and Members, Madam Mag. Meira Hot! Thank you very much for these questions, all of them are still so hot these days, after 20 months of fighting the epidemic has exposed all the weaknesses of the Slovenian health and also the wider social system. I can speak for myself, and I can tell you that since I am Minister, I stress that we are not the Ministry of the Epidemic, but we are the Ministry of Health, just as you said, because the vast majority of medical cases are still cases that need classical daily treatment, as we knew before the epidemic. It is true, however, that all the resources we need to properly address the patient's eyes also require their redeployments, staff and infrastructure to ensure that we are able to do so. As far as the Celje case is concerned, professional supervision has shown that the boy has not been treated under the hospital protocol, as agreed, and all procedures have been followed accordingly. Any citizen in need of treatment must be treated in accordance with the Protocol. As regards measures to prevent epidemics that are not only linked to covid, but, as you said, an epidemic of cancer and others, we are doing our utmost to implement all programmes. Thus, except at the beginning of the first wave, we carry out all the time Zora, Sweet and Doro. In all, it is encouraging that we carried out the same scope of inspections this year as before the epidemic, but it is true that at this time the number of newly identified cancers is still 10% lower than in 2019. As far as the other measures are concerned, it is clear that the allocation of resources that we have in health cannot fully carry out what we have done before the epidemic, so the waiting periods in the areas mentioned above have been extended. You won't believe it, and I was the first minister to meet with the representatives of the patient's rights, and we've been talking together about the solutions, and some of them have been in office for 12 years. We have, as you know, together with the assistance of the National Assembly, also in the framework of intervention measures, reached a national call for the reduction of waiting lines. Last but not least, as the media have already reported, it has exposed certain anomalies to be removed and improved, so we have already begun activities to improve data on waiting and waiting periods in the central e-procurement system. The Law on Intervention Measures has also enabled the reallocation of programmes in the current year among operators in order to make use of all the resources or resources we have. At the same time, the same law also referred to measures in the field of personnel, as you know that there will be professionals who will join the specialization of family medicine this year and next year, higher pay than usual, while there are also 30 specialisations in this law from clinical psychology and 400 staff scholarships each year, according to 100 new ones. At the same time, we have also established a Mental Health Council during this period. He's met twice today. Finally, it discussed the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme for the period 2021-2023. The aim is to give it to the Government by the end of November. At the same time, a strategy for the development of basic or primary health activities is being prepared by 2031. We also sat here with the World Health Organization days ago, preparing an appropriate basis to make a move. So much for now, maybe I'll be next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Still, I don't think we've touched the real heart of the problem. I've already given you how many people are waiting in line for diagnostics, I absolutely don't think that they're going to solve these individual intervention laws, this is a more complex problem, and we're going to have to make an organizational change in the functioning of our system. There's just a lot of absurdity going on. A lot of absurdity associated with the covida epidemic, leaving so many people with undetected cancers. In our delegation, we have a case of a colleague whose one of the parents unfortunately left in 10 days of diagnosis, 10 days from diagnosis to death. Ten days because it wasn't diagnosed in time. The problem is that we explain to people, for example, there is a lot of information on online networks that doctors know that in fact healthy people who are welcome to the doctor should stay home so that they do not spread the potential virus. What I want to tell you is that the anomalies she was in the cell hospital, that you let a four-year-old kid wait because he has to do a test first – I don't know how to wait five minutes because I don't have a test if I'm badly burned, not as a child. The problem is that simply because of some bureaucratic obstacles now, despite the fact that the protocol was different, there are extraordinary anomalies in practice, undetected diseases. It seems to me that we are simply creating greater chaos every day, rather than solving the problems of the system. You mentioned about mental health that meetings, consultative groups and so on are taking place, and we are reading how the pressures and mental health of young people are exacerbated every day, how there is no real help, how they really follow the epidemic of covid cancer, an epidemic of mental distress. I don't think we're solving the core problems here. I think every day is worse, and I wonder what we're gonna do here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank you for the added question. As for the instructions for people to stay home if they get sick, this was the case last year in the second wave. From the beginning of the year, anyone who has suspected or had symptoms that indicate a possible disease must immediately approach a doctor to confirm the disease and be treated appropriately. What needs to be said is, better than controlling the epidemic, we will have more reserves and resources in health care for the rest. Therefore, my appeal to all of us to come together to manage the epidemic and in this way allow health care to truly carry out its mission. This does not depend solely on the Minister of Health or the Members here, but on the whole of society. As far as cancer is concerned, it is important to emphasise that in these days we are preparing plans to expand oncological activities in the eastern part of Slovenia and we are planning a new or important upgrade of the cancer clinic of the Maribor University Clinical Centre, which will also significantly upgrade these resources in this part of Slovenia. As far as mental distress is concerned, this year we have increased the number of beds for children in pedophiliatry as well as mental health centres for children and adolescents. What is important is that we can only address and solve all health problems together. The epidemic is what we carry in health care in our backpack with us in addition to everything we have on our tray every day. Here is my thanks to all health professionals and all in health care, who are doing their utmost to continue in these difficult times, because this agony has lasted for 20 months now, can and continue to endure. For this reason too, as the first Minister in history, I have proposed the opening of a collective agreement and, again, from my position, I sincerely thank the unions for the constructive dialogue we are having at this time. I believe that we have come a long way, and I want us to be able to get the strength to get to the final step and finish this and give our nurses better wages, as they deserve. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I absolutely believe that we need a general debate on the issue that we have addressed today. The fact is that despite these answers to the right answer, we have not really come up with a solution to the problem we are talking about. Not that I apologize, but today we read that politics has decided, for example, on Janssen and not on a professional basis, that the profession has warned you that there is a need to change the decision that you can get a visible certificate on the day of Janssen vaccination, unlike other vaccines. I am giving you this as an example of how the issue of the epidemic is being handled and addressed wrongly in this country. We cannot jointly control the epidemic if, at every step of the way, this government is making moves that really deepen the lack of confidence in your response to the epidemic. We can't do this. Instead of actually controlling the epidemic with professional receptions, it is controlled by the adoption of decisions, not by law, by excluding the National Assembly. On the other hand, undiagnosed diseases spread, diseases spread among people who do not get real diagnosis, chaos spreads, real problems are not addressed. Instead of listening to a professional who had warned you in August that a decision must be changed, this did not happen. Then there's the catastrophic loss and the victim of a young girl. Of course, then the mistrust between citizens and citizens is deepened. We are talking again about one case that we can extend to all the times of this epidemic. It is therefore necessary to control the epidemic in order to take at least one step forward in health care, but the fact is that in this way, as the current government is solving it, unfortunately we will not get results. Because after 20 months we have not taken the right step forward, even further back, the health system in front of our eyes is falling apart, and this is absolutely unacceptable. It is therefore necessary to have a broader debate in the National Assembly and to have some real health reform that will provide our citizens and citizens with in fact some public and quality health care, something which should be an irresistible right for all of us. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a procedural proposal to discuss the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 20 October 2021 in the framework of the votes. Joseph Lenart will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greeting to all guests from the ministries, distinguished Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Mr Podgoršek! My question is about the development and research of seeds, as well as about the fate and management of the Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre, which operates under the auspices of Semenarna Ljubljana. Slovenian seeds mark the quality, nutritional value and genetic adaptability of Slovenian soil and climate. When asked about the so-called national wealth, such as indigenous species, Slovenian seeds such as the preservation of indigenous Slovenian seeds, it is necessary to be particularly careful and work with them as a good master and, of course, our seeds must remain in our hands. It is a Semenarna plant that deals with the conservation of plant genetic resources and the sowing of local varieties of agricultural plants, which are of paramount importance for the nutritional safety of our country, as well as with so-called flattery. The Ptuj selection and trial centre is strategically important for the country, but the transfer from Semenarna Ljubljana to the country or third party takes too long. These indigenous types of vegetables, legumes, cereals, among others, are important for the survival of the Slovenians. So Slovenians, especially Slovenian farmers and green farmers, express concern about what will happen to the Semenarna Selection and Trial Centre – this is also beautifully seen from many articles, from the media, including social networks – who will become the new manager of SPC Ptuj. It is also known that in the immediate vicinity of SPC Ptuj we have a good know-how and all the necessary professional, human resources structure by the Ptuj Agricultural Forestry Institute, which would gladly take him into management. This would, in my opinion, be an excellent opportunity for the development and growth of the SPC and thus for natural and Slovenian agriculture. So I'm wondering: Where are we at the moment in solving the fate and management of the Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre? In particular, common agricultural understanding, local interest and regional integration should prevail in order for the selection centre to develop well in advance, to work for the benefit of agriculture and farmers. In addition, if we consider the proximity of the operator, such a centre could operate with all the necessary technology with significantly lower costs than if it were managed from the other end of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Undoubtedly, seminary is one of the strategic tasks of each country, including the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia we have a large collection of plant genetic resources. In any case, I hope to state that the existence of Slovenian indigenous plant species, old plant species and so on is not at risk. So it's not endangered genetic material, because we have a genetic bank that takes care of renewal and takes care of these genetic resources. We keep plant genetic resources within the public service, the so-called plant genetic bank. We have a public service for three main areas — agriculture, hops and gardening. Wealth in the Republic of Slovenia is the work of individuals as well as private companies or research institutes – Agricultural Institute, Biotechnical Faculty, Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystemic Sciences in Maribor, Institute for Agriculture and Brewery and others. From this point of view, I am sure that the knowledge of flattery in Slovenia is quite available. For this purpose, for public services in plant production, with particular emphasis on seminary, we devote around €600,000 annually for selection, for breeding new varieties, for introduction of new varieties, for introduction of varieties, for new technologies and for coordination in part. From this point of view these public services have been taking place in the Republic of Slovenia for decades, and in some ways I think they also justify their purpose under this title of public services, which have been particularly supported since 2014, there are new varieties in Slovenia, the greening of new varieties and also hybrids, for example, in cabbage, which is a new genetic material suitable for the Slovenian production situation. If we touch more specifically SPC Ptuj. I myself have followed with great concern the events surrounding Semenarna Ljubljana in the past. Today, probably those who sold Semenarna Ljubljana to others warn us that we also sold SPC Ptuj, the Selection and Trial Center as part of Semenarna Ljubljana. Semenarna Ljubljana was in the hands of Slovenian farmers, Slovenian partners and was sold through the Land Bank, which is an indisputable fact. That is why I myself was extremely concerned about this event that took place here. However, since we know that the Selection and Trial Centre is important both in terms of knowledge, equipment, assortment and flattery, we have been making a number of efforts for a long time to transfer it to state administration, ownership, so that we can manage it. At the moment, legal bases are being drawn up to enable the Selection and Trial Centre to pass on to SDH in accordance with the decision of the Government, and then probably to one of the operators. We have several possible managers, but if we want to transfer it to governance, even ownership, we can transfer it to an institution owned by the state after my current knowledge of the law. Here we know that the Agricultural Forestry Institute Ptuj is not state owned, the founder of the Agricultural Forestry Institute Ptuj is the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia as a non-governmental organisation, as well as the founder of all other agricultural and forestry institutions throughout Slovenia. This legal basis is not in favour of this mode of transfer, but we are talking about the current legal basis, so I would not conclude for now how the final image of the Selection and Trial Centre will be resolved. It is important for me and the Government to transfer it to SDH as soon as possible. We expect that by 20 December, when the final deadline for the extension of the agreed time with Semenarna Ljubljana is reached, however.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u162	I'll be brief. I must say, both of you and the Minister are aware of our self-sustainment. I believe the Minister must and try to act neutrally. The legal basis must certainly be provided here. If she's not here, then she's gone. But one more time. If now, for example, at the Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre, where there are about 5,000 400 of the highest quality seeds, of these many indigenous species and so on, we actually have a controller, I don't know, I will say, from the other end of Slovenia or from the vicinity, if we own these seeds, it means that we also provide self-sustainment and have the opportunity to produce our own food. This is one and one. Then it's another thing. If we have only a research and development centre as SPC, do we also have a direct link with stakeholders, i.e. farmers and growers, farmers, Slovenian food growers? I think it would be a plus if the operator were from the same end, of course, so we could rationalise the costs of operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I'm going to try to answer very briefly, and I'm going to give you our view. Undoubtedly, only public service in the part of the Ptuj Selection and Experimental Centre for Wealth and thus probably would not cover all the costs of this work. Therefore, I am convinced that whoever will be the final operator of the Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre will also have to carry out another market activity, i.e. sell seeds. From the point of view of the minister again, for anyone who manages this, the condition will also be that he controls, knows, also performs the task of the genetic bank of Slovenian indigenous varieties, which by the way are not several thousand, but there are some tens as indigenous; the rest are market varieties. However, these market varieties ultimately also represent the market share of the SPC in Ptuj and should therefore be included in the business plan itself. I myself have had the opportunity to see some different business plans that are interested in this part, and practically everyone in this part also includes this market activity. So there will certainly be a combination of public service delivery for the part that we want to carry out as the Republic of Slovenia through public service, to protect and market activities that the provider will carry out because of the stable financial situation itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Marko Bandelli will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku. There is no Member of Parliament. Next is Nick Prebil, who will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Vice President. Both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Minister, I have a very specific question today, and I also ask you for a very clear answer. Practically from the start of your function, you have been exposed to reports of police politicization, personal influence on decisions and ideological political orientation. This is not least highlighted by trade unions, police experts, the public and the opposition as well. However, I think it is justified that public confidence in the police has never been as low as it is now. I have a graph here, that's police data. During your term of office, that is, when you run this institution, only 10% of citizens and citizens in our country are fully trusted by the police. Perhaps your sometimes unnecessary comments will also contribute to this, and the nagging of police officers with mussels, not least the nagging of the people, I apologize, with pigs, your irrevocable resignation and also the abnormal personnel intervention with the loyal SDS personnel in the lead of the police. I wouldn't count it all. However, there is probably also the fact that, among all three of them, if I say so, the larger protests of the police at times seemed somewhat confused, the protests were getting out of control. You're the one who got the whole street thing all worked up once. But we also know, Minister, that you regularly go to the Occ during the protests. First of all, I want to know: What did Secretary of State and both your Secretary of State do to you at the OCC? You say you're just an observer, that you're there quietly and you're not giving instructions. At least that's what you once said on the committee, but I'm really curious about what this congregation was doing at the OKC, given that such a presence during the protest, when the police should be gathered and professionally directed, is most likely an obstacle to police work. As I said, it seems to me that the police once acted extremely harshly – 400 gas bullets with a tear gas cannon, today we hear that the police were even strengthened in advance by the Slovenian Army, which bears witness to some indications – and again the second time the police have acted a mile, without tears and at least a matter of appearance. I'd say it's because of some kind of political interference in a situation like this. I'm asking you clearly: Do you, Minister, personally give instructions on how the police should work on the OKC, or do you tell the Director General of Police and then orchestrate it that it is not so obvious that you are the one who organizes the police's work in protest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, I must say that it is already in this question that you have asked, which is a whole lot of nonsense, so I will go from one to the other. First, let me say I'm at Occ 5. I wasn't 10. You must have been misinformed. We have OKC, more OKCs have been set up in the country. One of them, of course, is also in Ljubljana, which is called the entire implementation of the Operational-Communication Centre, is right there on Prešern's Road and me 5. I wasn't on the 10th. That's the first stupid thing you've said. The other stupid thing you said, or the question, is that you said this brush came to OKC. This brush could not come to the OKC because it is part of this brush, as you poorly or actually demeaningly call it – the director of the police, the secretary of state, the minister, the man in charge of national security in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, you speak of it as a brush. I was alone at 19.15 that day on the CVZ, this is the Center for Protection and Protection. If you forgot, the European Union Summit with the Western Balkans was organised in the Republic of Slovenia that day. So for a long time there has not been such a high visit in this country, and one of the very important matters of course carried out by the police, and this has been successfully carried out by the police, once again going to the police all recognition, is, of course, the protection of this summit. I understand that this may make you uncomfortable or that when the police successfully intervene you feel in some way uncomfortable, because it would certainly be your triumph or I don't know what to call it, much bigger if the police didn't do it successfully and you could go along with the MSM media, according to mainstream media, reporting on how we don't even know how to protect this summit. Which one of these experts is talking about somebody getting politically involved or something like that, I don't know. Of the experts who are close to you, if I am not mistaken, they have even helped you write your programmes, Mr Miroslav Zaberl. To be very specific. This is the gentleman who was employed by the Police, who was the head of the Police Supervisory Directorate and who is the author of this famous 9th article, which discusses what and how the police can protect or how they can further limit the movement in exceptional events. He is not the author of this article, this article has been written before, but he is the author of the work that speaks of who is in control of it. He is the author who wrote that the Director of Police, on the basis of the facts or suspicions found, orders an independent commission. So, he wrote this in marriage, there you can read Miroslav Žaberl, his comments, and this same man then comes on television and says that such a commission is not actually entirely objective. I think that Slovenians will be able to create their own opinion whether it is an expert or a politician who is currently retired and would like to stand on one side or the other, of course not on the other, but on the one side, i.e. on the side of the current opposition. The third nonsense you said, which you apparently also read from mainstream media about this afternoon, is that we got — what did you say? – pyrotechnic or I don't know what kind of means the army has. This is the new nonsense you've just taken. I recommend that you do not take all the stupid things that journalists say just so biasedly or without some judgment. I'd say so. We have found ourselves around these protests or these in the last 14 days in such a pile of lies that it is absolutely incredible. Look at the last Target, and you will see a colleague from the SD party there who, I think, in the first 15 minutes four or five times said that the police gave first orders on the use of water cannon and gas assets at 3:30, watch out, 3:30, and that we were already there in the OKC some or many of this brush that you named. What I've been doing there, and since I'm running out of time, I'll tell you if you ask me any more questions in the second part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u170	Sure. Minister, as you yourself have found, you have not answered my question. I did not ask you about any Mr. Zaberl or how he is written, but I asked you clearly what you are doing at these centres and whether you are giving direction to the police. In fact, there are some indications - as clear to me as I am on the investigative committee and also the KNOVS should have found this today on police surveillance - that you, as a minister, both your State Secretary and the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, have directly intervened in the decisions of the police. You were talking about protecting the hilltop, which wasn't my question either, but let's still go here. How, then, could a delegation or convoy with a protected person or vehicle be among the protesters? Because information is also coming to the National Assembly that then the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Mr Mahnic made it clear that the police must take a sharper and stronger action against the crowd that surrounded this delegation. So, Minister, I'm not stressing any information here by mainstream media, but I want you to answer the questions clearly and either confirm or deny it, and then we'll talk further. And earlier, because you wanted to show somehow in your implementation that we're all happy and applauding when something happens, I'll tell you here what I told you on the committee. As in the LMŠ, we are clearly condemning and condemning immediately any violence that occurs, but I think that as a minister you do not need to stress that the protest is a constitutional right of people and is, of course, expressed because of the decline in public opinion and confidence in the police that I mentioned at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I am very pleased that you have given this addition. What you're asking me right now was one of my questions right there. That's right. What was I doing on the CVZ? One of my questions was, at 9.15 a.m., how could it have happened that one of the delegations by the protestors was surrounded? It's a legitimate question. They told me why it happened. They said they had to redirect this delegation. Fortunately, there were no consequences in this regard, and that was one of my questions. Another of my questions there was how it was possible that the police at the CVZ for very important information, on one of the screens it was seen, was using videos of Vladimir Voduška. Can you imagine? Vodudek walks around Ljubljana, painting, painting crowds, and this is one of the entry information of the police. It's pretty unusual for me. I said, "Listen, can't you find someone who can record it?" Maybe – that's not what I said at the time – there's still a sign from RTV that they won't get beat up, as Ličina said months ago, and we'd be getting these pictures from the police directly at the operational-communication center. The third thing I said there was, of course, an absolute recognition of everything they did at the Occ. The hour was 19.15, 19.30, so the thing went to a conclusion, except for a few rioters who broke up in Ljubljana after, I think, by what time 21st hours, those people who lived there even afternoon, led these actions in an operational manner, successfully led these actions, to express congratulations. Similar questions or similar praises were given to me. I think we have now also responded to Mr German's Member when I carried out my visits to the centres, i.e. after days, with the acquisitions of who was there. I can answer any such question at any time. But I can clearly say that I never gave any direction to the police. Except for those I give in accordance with the law in the form of written instructions. And these have their serial number, their date of issue, their current number, and so on. All these things are public, you can get them anytime, there's no problem. But as for what you said about the commission finding something today, I would be very happy if you could show it to me, because I don't have this information that you've been telling me. I saw today a message from the Commission of the President of Matjaž Germany, where they found only that they were calling on the Ombudsman to make an investigation. None of what you were saying, I didn't see it. Unless you have any other information. But in what was publicly presented, there's no such thing as the information you've given us.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you, too, for the answers, although not completely. Before I go to my procedural proposal, however, allow me one really brief comment. To get to the whole point, I'd probably talk for a while. And your last manipulation, that I said something that KNOVS discovered, is not true. I made it clear that the KNOVS was supposed to find out something about what KNOVS had found out there, of course, because, in principle, this control of KNOVS must be carried out in secret, and I hope that they too. However, at least the President of the KNOVS provided information on Twitter, what he, of course, could, by virtue of his powers, have been found to have been violations and would redirect them to the Ombudsman. That's what a fact is. Minister, you clearly replied that you never gave direction at these centers. Thank you for your answer. I hope that it is true, and this will probably also be found within the framework of the Commission of Inquiry. Maybe there's just one more thing. Various information appears once that you were there when the protests were over, the second time that you were at these centres or that your state secretaries were among the protests themselves. That's a contradiction to what you've been saying. If, if not you, the Secretary of State or perhaps another Secretary of State, that is, the one in charge of the Cabinet of the President of the Government, had any effect on the decisions taken or directed to the police, it was a kind of politically guided intervention, which testifies to the violation of the relevant legislation that we have today, and it is a violation of the powers under the law. I would like to see the National Assembly not only in the context of the question of how the police operate under the current leadership, but also questions when we are talking about a marked and significant decline in public confidence in an institution such as the Slovenian Police, to hold a public debate, perhaps also with certain guidelines or recommendations on how politics should operate in the future, in line with the Slovenian Police. I hope that this trust may someday reach at least the level that was before you, your esteemed minister, took possession of this city. I therefore ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly hold a debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The National Assembly will decide on your proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. Andrej Visiak and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr Jožet Podgoršku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Ministers responsible for hunting and nature protection, I ask about the management strategy for the brown bear and the damage caused by the four bears by the destruction of two beekeepers in the suburban streets of Idrija and before that in the local community of Kanomlja. In recent years, all professional brown bear shots have been stopped by the Administrative Court. Ever since spring this year, bears have appeared in Idria, and no one has explained how they could be removed from the city. The number of brown bears has risen to over a thousand in Slovenia over the past few years. On the basis of an outdated, over 20 years old management strategy, the entire city of Idrija or the entire left bank of the Idrija River is included in the area of the brown bear. It is an outdated strategy that should have been amended long ago. Hunting families have their hands locked and the Tolmin Forest Institute no longer has any authority to propose wildlife management measures, and the measures to be taken with effect from 1 October are not. Hunting families from competent authorities and agencies do not receive answers to their proposals. The Administrative Court has stopped all orders for the shooting of a brown bear by natural protection organisations, although the aim of the existing strategy is to manage up to 800 bears in Slovenia. That's why I'm asking both competent ministers: When will a new brown bear management strategy be ready to replace a more than 20-year-old, obsolete strategy? When will the town of Idria be exempted from the area of brown bear protection? What will the ministers do to protect the area of Idrija and thereby prevent further damage to the property of the city's inhabitants and do something for their safety, since from the center of the city to the endangered marginal streets is poor half an hour's walk? I thank the ministers in advance for their answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Who wants a word first? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u178	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. The answer to the first question is very simple. The strategy is ready. The proposal for a strategy for the management of the brown bear in Slovenia for the period 2021-2030 is in inter-resort coordination. In short, the text has already been prepared and is in coordination for adoption in the Government, and I predict that this will also be adopted within a few weeks. At the same time, there is also an action plan for the management of the brown bear for a five-year period, 2021-2025. I believe this act will be adopted soon. Brown bear is a protected animal species throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia and urban areas are not exempted. Such understanding was also confirmed by the judgment of the European Court of Justice in a similar case. What can we do? First time. In the framework of this year's formal Council for the Environment in Luxembourg, I have proposed to two Croatian ministers that, due to the favourable situation in Slovenia and Croatia, we should remove the brown bear from the so-called protected species and manage the bear in the same way as the other species that are not protected under the Habitat Directive. This can be done when the species is in favourable condition, and the bear has been confirmed in the last period, this confirms all the statistics that have spread into a row in favourable condition. However, this procedure cannot yet be completed before the European authorities, so it is the decision of the European institutions and we will do our utmost to do so. What can we do now in the event of serious harm or a health hazard? It is possible to take such a bear for which a prior authorisation is granted. In the event of a threat, this is done by calling 112 and 113 and then issuing an oral decision to shoot a brown bear. Now for the stats. In the area of Idrija in the months of September and October, this is up to 14. Ten. 2021, at the ILO, we received no calls to 112 and 113 concerning the threat to life and health. But we're in time from 1. Nine to 14. 10. Two applications for compensation for damage caused by a brown bear were received in both cases as a beekeeper. In such cases, the damage is also recovered.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dr. Podgoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u180	Given that the Minister responsible for this area has practically answered all the key questions, he would add only one thought. Our Ministry is also carrying out a number of other activities within the framework of the actions of the Rural Development Programme to help protect grazing animals from large beasts, ranging from the regulation of fences to the closure of herds as a COPOP measure, an agri-environmental measure, to the use of herding dogs. In doing so, we are talking only about the protection of so - called grazing animals, not about the protection of humans. These activities do not solve the problem of human interaction with the great beasts. Let me add to the idea that, as Minister himself during the Presidency, I am talking to many other ministers and we are looking for solutions and we are also pointing in the same direction from our point of view as the Minister has already mentioned. We, too, with the Minister, are practically addressing this same issue on all of these international floors on every occasion. We can be moderately optimistic that in this part too, we will be able to make this change, which Minister Visjak has already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk, you have a request to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much for both your answers. The current, outdated strategy states that there are between 450 and 500 bears in Slovenia, but in fact experts say there are more than a thousand. This morning, my colleague Predrag Baković showed me a video of a bear walking in the middle of a bloc settlement in Kočev. In an article by Primorski novice journalist Sasha Dragos, I will quote: “People in Idrija and the surrounding area have told stories of encountering a bear with a young man. However, the cameras installed by the locals with a broken beekeeper in Skirca, or Idria, were made by a bear and three by spring bear. The bears that returned to the broken beekeeper did not consider the noise deliberately caused by the occupants of the nearby house, not the barking of a carefully chained dog. That's what further shocked people. One of the professional recommendations when walking along roads in the area of brown bears is to avoid collisions with them is loud conversation or any other noise causing.” There is also something possible for Minister Podgorsk. From the Forest Department, which is responsible for this area of Tolmin, the expert said, as follows: “I have always been for the patient but meaningful management of bears. I am getting less and less taken into account," he says, "measures and shootings, not even a regular one that should start with October 1st, are not. All of them are not even found in the state management of bears," said a staff member of the institution. That is why I am also interested in what you will do in this case and what moderation optimism means for a solution at the European level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The answer was given by Minister Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u184	Dear Member, I share my concern with you, as well as with the people of various places, especially in Kočevska, about the appearance of the bear in urban settlements. Therefore, once again, we have also started at the Ministry of Environment and Space in my mandate by means of so-called oral decisions, and if there is a threat, the shooting is immediate. We're not talking about a group shot right now. And, of course, we cut off some practice when a decision had been made earlier and NGOs had attacked it and the result was that the damage or the bear might have appeared and no one acted. So in the area of instant response to some phenomena where health and property are at risk, we have an answer. It is true that we have also tried in the past with the collective decisions of the shooting, which the Administrative Court has repealed. The solution is, therefore, only the one I have already mentioned – that through contemplative countries in Europe, where the state of the bear is favourable, that is to say, where the species has been strengthened in the last period and is already in number beyond the limits, yet acceptable frameworks, this species passes from one annex to another annex, meaning that the species is regulated as regulated for other species of game, I don't know, deer, wild pigs and so on. In short, it is no longer a protected species under the Regulation, which makes it virtually impossible to intervene on the basis of a breeding plan. This is the only solution, and this initiative has already begun. Of course, we expect more thinkers between Member States. And then the matter of changing the habitat and directive or this annex and the solution is then significantly closer. This is meant under this moderate optimism.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Of course, the management of protected species will be possible when permitted. And at this point we have this problem and I just say from the experience of 2019, when we wrote at our ministry in a few days, over the weekend that so-called intervention law to regulate the population of bears and wolves in that year, because they did tremendous damage also on agricultural facilities, animals and farms. I have to say, at the time, we didn't reach out to the population, but we're working on an increase. And then there was the last year when we were able to manage the bear more. At this point, as the minister has already mentioned, we have great problems with this general management, because the status of the bear itself needs to be changed. And that is why the Institute of Forests at this point, although perhaps otherwise thought, has virtually no mechanism to interfere with the bear population.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. It's Mr. Jože Lenart's turn. He will ask the Minister of Health Mr Janez Poklukar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, it is indeed a matter of continuing my fundamental health issues, of course today on the basis of some new facts. During the ten-year period, you provided 2 billion investments in health care by law, but of course you did not provide a real source, at least in our opinion. I'm asking: Will only investment solve the health problem? Which are you betting on or to what extent? To what extent do you predict that the award will affect the departure of doctors and medical personnel abroad and other activities? Where do you put the problem of poor health care organizations, which, of course, currently manifests itself and causes dissatisfaction with employees and, as a result, leaving abroad and other activities? With investments developed, modernised health care certainly indirectly affects the quality of treatment. However, this impact on the productivity of services alone and thus the reduction of waiting types is, of course, another issue. It is therefore important that €2 billion be used rationally over the decade. Is your strategy clear or is it just wishful thinking? I kind of doubt that. Why? If, before the adoption of the Health Investment Act, we have increased the primary level of funds from 50 million to four times 200 million, on our proposal or our amendment or the amendment of opposition parties, I have little concern. Of course, the economy is governed by an economic rule before you plan large investments, which, of course, need to return; otherwise, tomorrow is no longer on the market, you must first draw up a comprehensive business plan with all the resources available within the resources available; and for the entire period of return of foreign investment resources. However, it is important that these funds spent must be linked to GDP growth and, of course, to the real resources of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. Dear Minister, 2 billion investments without checking the organisation of health and, of course, internal reserves, without the finally installed network according to standards and standards, which is the basis for monitoring the productivity and use of equipment. Without the establishment of an effective information system linked to the spine of the central patient register of data on eHealth, where eNapotnica already works. But we are very far from connecting to hundreds of partial information systems that do not allow comprehensive transparency and, of course, result in an irrational spending of public money on information support providers, as we have witnessed in recent months at the Oncology Institute. By no means will you save Slovenian health if we only bet on investments. This will only give citizens and citizens a debt and we will not achieve our goals. So I ask for your answers: What will you do in this area? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Jože Lenart! Thank you very much for this important question and for continuing the discussion or series of questions that you have already asked last month. The fact is that if we want to have sustainable health care in 2031, we need a sufficient number of adequately trained staff, adequate organisation and adequate and sufficient infrastructure. The law you mentioned is only one of the systemic measures leading to a sustainable health system in 2031. What is the state of the infrastructure and apparatus? Believe me, I can tell you firsthand because I've been working in these hospitals for years. And I also want us to get to the level that Slovenian citizens and citizens deserve. It is true, however, that so far the country has not generally invested so much in primary level infrastructure. And it is right – and here my thanks to Members and Members – that efforts have been made and that it has been made to reflect on the joint preparation and adoption of a law that I believe provides important additional foundations and a basis for the effective functioning of the primary level in 2031, as we have just as many challenges at the primary level as elsewhere in our health care. As regards the award as an explanation for leaving Slovenian health care, as I have already said several times, based on the surveys we are doing in health and non-health personnel leaving Slovenian health care, payment is, of course, third place. In the first place, working conditions, such as the second organisation and the organisational climate within the healthcare institution, are appropriate as a reason for leaving. There is still important and difficult work to be done here, I agree with that. And speaking of salaries, I think we have a very high level of cultural dialogue with health-care union representatives in search of consensus to find the best solution for health-care workers right now. Of course, this chapter will also need to be broadly regulated further. As far as standards and standards are concerned, of course I can regret that we do not yet have them at the national level accepted as such. Last but not least, the Court of Auditors has recently stated how standards and standards are properly achieved. And with all the standards and norms we have on the table right now, we're going this way. On 26 October, as the last instance before the Minister or the highest consultative expert body of the Minister, the Health Council will consider the standards and standards of pharmacists. And I'm glad we got there with the first ones, and I believe everyone else will continue this way. As far as centralised information support is concerned, it is true that we need a great deal of effort here to connect all these hundreds of smaller information applications on the ground into a system where the decision maker can get real data in real time and decide on this basis. Today, many data, with the exception of the data we need on the epidemic that developed during the epidemic, are available at a time of delay. And making timely decisions makes it even harder. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart has an additional question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u192	Thank you for the first part of the answers. I think it's good for the public, too, as you said. But I'd like an extra explanation. That there is something very wrong with the organization in health care, the following facts also show me. I justify this on the basis of several reports and corrective actions of the Court of Auditors over the past 15 years. In 2015, the UKC audit was carried out for the period 2007-2014. The findings were worrisome and remedial measures were taken, and in early 2018 the revision for this report then conditionally gave a positive report. We've talked about this before. But on the basis of my question in December 2020 from this area, I received from Prime Minister Janez Janša, who was at the time in the role of Minister of Health, concerned about the answer, when the Court of Auditors closed the door, corrective measures were taken, and many records ceased to be kept. And even more alarmingly, the President of the Government notes that individual health establishments have no interest in keeping records at all. That's what it says in this answer, it's clear. Where are we gonna go, Minister, to let this happen to us? What's going on at the Ministry? What's going on under the carpet like this? As Minister, don't you also have an influence on public institutions not to follow you? Here, of course, I have two packages of reports from the Court of Auditors, concerning the arrival of the withdrawal of doctors to the market, it is also worrying, and of course the regulation of the public service and the exchange of information on other activities of public institutions. Also in August and September, we were able to hear some alarming information in the media about the findings of an information expert at the Oncology Institute, and this is where the matter stopped. You too have your own department in this area, people and also public institutions have internal audit experts. Why isn't it done here anymore? Why are we ineffective? Why do we not know about citizens and citizens that there will be greater confidence in this area, including in you, the Minister of Respect?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Minister Poklukar, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Jože Lenart! It is true that all the time I have worked in health care in line with the training I received from my parents, I am working to work transparently and properly, and accordingly not only to carry out public calls, but also to lead and set up organisations in all these institutions where I have been. Many additional efforts are needed, as you said, that we will continue the journeys that have already begun. And at this point, control of expensive appliances is necessary, not only of their presence, but also of their use. And accordingly, of course, we can plan to approach a more efficient organisation not only of health care, but also the elimination of waiting types. Without effective internal audit, as you said, there is no expectation of more efficient or better up-to-date processes within organisations or institutions for better business. And monitoring quality in health is one of the key moments to continue in order to reach the organisation, management and trust in health care as you have instructed or as Slovenians want or expect from managers, from employees in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u196	Madam Minister, today's debate on the issue itself shows that a deeper look is needed in this area. In addition to the investments needed, of course, so that there is no misunderstanding, we need to check thoroughly what we can do alone on the existing system in order to be more efficient and thus to save and direct savings to the objectives where they are needed. To finally set up a health network according to standards and standards, and on this basis, of course, we monitor the real productivity of health teams across all health institutions and, of course, areas of work. To be able to monitor the use of equipment, or overload, or lack of equipment. To relieve health workers and ultimately to reduce waiting lines with better organisation so that people can get to health services as they need to. I am confident that such an approach will also make it easier for us to plan or target investments in health care. Therefore, we must have the interest of all Members to reach a broader debate on this issue, together with the experts, of course, at one of the future meetings. And I think it must be our common interest, and also your respected minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now, Mr. Boris Doblekar has the floor. He will also ask the Minister of Health, Mr Janez Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister Poklukar! It is necessary to find out, and also every day, what the current situation with covid patients is like in Slovenia, as opposed to countries where things have somehow been put in order, where they have also achieved with splintering that people are no longer dying, that they are not filling an intensive unit after hospitals, and that we can – what we hear here from the opposition every day – health work and breathe also for other patients, not just for the observant. We've got 5,000 tests a day, about, fast, then others to figure out who's positive. Then we have about 400, 450 people in hospitals that occupy cities. Then we have about 120 people in intensive care, about 120 moving this number, every day a few dead people – 3, 4, 5, 6. But the opposition or the Facebook influenzars do not burden themselves with how many people die a day, how many people are intubated in intensive care and how they suffer medical personnel. They don't care. But they are interested in perhaps one outstanding case that happens, and then the media pushes it to the point of disability and unconsciousness. It should also be said that there is a variety of politicisation and abuse of covida-19 disease in various media, even in the debates in the National Assembly. I want to know: How many patients have there been in hospitals so far? How many of them were in intensive care? What has been the cost of treatment so far, and in what way have these costs been met to make it clear exactly who is paying for it? Is this coming from the health department, is it coming from the budget, or is someone paying for what? And I want to know: How many intubated patients have been intubated and in an artificial coma so far? And what does this mean for those patients who are in an artificial coma and are intubated, so forced into the air, that they can breathe and that they may even remain alive after this severe, complicated disease? However, we know that after intubation and artificial respiration, even when they come to their senses, when they usually lose 30, 40 kilograms, they have severe problems a long time later. And then it all costs and costs and costs again. But we're still joking and we're not serious, we're unscathed, and every day we have more patients. Thank you for your answers, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr. Boris Doblekar, thank you very much for these questions. When we talk about the epidemic, of course, we need to re-emphasize the key. An epidemic is not a health problem. An epidemic is a social problem. Health care is the one facing the most intense consequences of the epidemic. When we talk about the sick, these reports often lack the numbers of those who have the so-called long covid, especially in the younger, as well as patients, children who have a systemic inflammatory response. Of course, we have these patients every day. They are treated in the specialist clinics of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana and Maribor. On the other hand, we also have daily between 30 and 50 patients in telemedicine, where experts monitor them through telemedicine information support and lead them in the home environment, as it is usually risky patients who are not at risk at this time to need hospital treatment. It is true that in these days between 5,000 and 7,000 PCR-tests have been performed to confirm covido-19 infection, while with rapid antigen tests 20 to 30 thousand tests a day. So far in Slovenia, we have had about 310 thousand covido-19 infections with PCR testing. There are approximately 400 hospitalized patients in 12 hospitals and 122 in the intensive care unit. Of these 122 in the intensive treatment unit are approximately 70% intubated, said to be in an artificial coma, and artificially inhaled. A smaller percentage – we are talking about numbers from 1 to 5 – and also on the so-called ECMO, is said to be an out-of-body circulation that keeps these most difficult patients alive, and breathing is not enough. By October 15, we had hospitalized 20 thousand 183 patients due to covid-19 and 3 thousand 222 were hospitalized in intensive care units or therapy units and 16 thousand 961 in obituary wards. The direct treatment of the visible patients alone amounted to €13.4 million in 2020 and €73.2 million this year. These are the direct or direct costs of the treatment itself. Then, as you know, we have other costs such as vaccine costs and vaccinations exceeding EUR 30 million, then the PCR test costs were around EUR 30 million at the end of August, the 49 million euro rapid antigen tests, the cost of supplements over EUR 300 million. Together, we reach close to €650 million cumulatively of all health costs related to covid-19. The epidemic must not be the basis for divisions in society. The epidemic has to connect us. And only through a common approach will we control the epidemic, we will master the numbers, we will relieve the health care that will be able to do everything that awaits it from before the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Doblekar, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for all these answers. Some answers, I have to say, or what everyone is very concerned about, especially when we talk about these numbers, when we talk about how much treatment costs, when we talk about the consequences of this serious illness on people, and when we talk about how health personnel suffer each day. Most of all, in those hospitals where they have observable departments, and above all, we see what it is like in health care homes where there are no such departments, but there are testing departments for vaccination; and, of course, a lot of different restrictions that patients can access their services either by ordering themselves or by calling in the infirmary. I believe that you in health care institutions, including you, Minister, are working hard at all sorts of things. We can all see that, but of course the media is under-emphasizing it, we're talking too little about it here, you're trying to work days and nights to leave health behind so that you can restore health to someone. On the other hand, we see that politics, certain media and influencers on Facebook and Instagram are literally making a fool out of it. And I'd like to ask you another question: How much longer do you think this treatment's gonna cost? If we don't get serious as a society and if we don't realize that vaccination is necessary, that we need to protect ourselves, what are the other numbers if you assume that? How much is this taxpayer going to cost us? And how much would these vaccines cost if they were already vaccinated to inoculate these 10, 15, 20 percent of the people who needed to be vaccinated? I am still interested in this relationship so that people may benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. When we talk about controlling the epidemic, let me stress once again that vaccination is the most important public health measure that helps to end or end the epidemic and prevents the spread and thus the possibility of a new variant of the virus. For all that we are building on today's thinking is, of course, based on the fact that the new versions will not be effective and that the vaccines and immunosuppressives obtained from the disease will be effective. If something new happens to us in the meantime with this virus, what new variant, we are at the beginning of the story. And no one wants that. And so once again, my call to all residents and residents to join the vaccination process. According to data received from the Director of the National Institute of Public Health, Mr Krek, in Slovenia, we are fully vaccinated with over 18 years of age, about 63% when we speak of comparison with other countries, all of them, of course, point to adult populations being stricken, saying that they are over 18 years of age. And here we are lagging behind the good 10 percentage points for Europe's average, and that is why additional effort is needed. At the same time, once we have achieved this, I believe that we will be able to release measures, but not to think about the potential threat that a new outbreak of the epidemic poses these days. And this epidemic will only be controlled by the implementation of the CPT measure, it is said that it has been vaccinated, gotten over; and T as a basis for buying time to rejoin properly at this time and at the same time to get away from the infection chain as quickly as possible. As far as the epidemic is concerned. The epidemic is, once again, a social problem, so the call to everyone – regardless of the political definition, regardless of the color of the skin, regardless of the religion, we are here on the same, the virus is not a choice. And my request that we complete this agony as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Željko Cigler will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u206	Madam President, thank you for your word. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Study New Year began with a very bitter taste for students from third countries, namely, the amendment of the Foreign Law has exacerbated the conditions for obtaining temporary residence permits. Once it was enough for these foreign students to have written assurance from their parents about the means of survival provided, today they have to demonstrate pre-funded livelihoods at the value of the minimum income in Slovenia monthly, which amounts to about EUR 5,000 per year. Madam Minister, I ask: How many students from third countries registered for the first time in the study year in Slovenia? And please provide data at the level of individual universities for this year's study year. I would also ask for registration data for the past five years also at the level of individual universities. I know you probably won't be able to give me this right now, but your answer can be completed in writing. And second of all, I'm asking: How many students from third countries who met the conditions for advancing to the senior year couldn't make entry now after the new year? If I ask you a different question: What is the rash of students who have already started studying in Slovenia who have successfully completed the year and are now unable to enter the senior year due to new conditions? I am interested in the number of students enrolled from third countries in the second, third and fourth years of pregraduate studies or in the first and second years of postgraduate studies. I am interested in data from individual universities for this year's study year and for the past five years. In fact, I was alone when the Faculty of Logistics was established in Celje, and we will talk about the establishment of new higher education curricula. And the fact is that with these programmes we also wanted to educate students from abroad, because education at the tertiary level in Slovenia is only a recognised matter. And I'm just wondering: Why does Slovenia close its doors? What do we want to clean up? What's the point? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member Ciegler, thank you so much for asking! Let me first say that I want and that I also know from the information I have that the academic year started successfully, well, very positive for a large majority of our students and students, professors and professors, as well as for foreign students. This year's study year compared to the last five years, for which you ask, we have registered the largest number of foreign students so far in Slovenian universities, both public and independent higher education institutions. And it's not even finished yet, because we have this date now, what I'm going to serve you now with numbers on October 17th, and the entry is still running due to extraordinary cases, medical reasons, students with special needs, complaints. The real date will probably be known somewhere after the first of November holidays. The first students enrolled from third countries in the study year 2021/2022 for all three stages of the study this moment is 2 000 327. Of these are the most at the University of Ljubljana, which is a thousand 15, then 490 in other higher education institutions, 463 – University of Maribor and 359 at the University of Primorska. The review of the five-year period suggests, as I have already mentioned, constant growth. If we had a thousand 444 students in 2017 to, as it were said, current data, which is not yet complete, this year. Then it is also necessary to look at the different levels of study to which students from abroad are enrolled, according to foreign students. University, university vocational study, as it is said, this information, which will then be provided by higher education programmes, this year amounts to 3 000 336, last year 2 000 880, before last year 2 000 390, 2018/2019 – a thousand 868, 2017/2018 – a thousand 541. In the Master's University or Master's degree, together, it was written this year, as it was said, on October 17, 507, last year, a thousand 418, 2019/2020 – a thousand 199, 2018/2019 – 968, 2017/2018 – 826. In the doctoral study, if we go now from 2017/2018, the study year 2017/2018 – total is 281, the next study year is 295 and 355, 387 last year and this time 393 this year. And when we put all of this together, then you can see that the difference is quite high, and in the school year 2017/2018 all of these 3 levels together enrolled in Slovenia – 2 000 648 foreign students, next year 3 000 131 and then 3 thousand 944, then 4 thousand 685 and the situation, as they say, 17. 10th this year – 5 000 235. Nevertheless, I would like to give you some information or clarification in this first round of answers. In fact, this amendment of the Foreigners Act is no different than that of such a comparable law in all European Union countries, because in fact, we have only transposed Directive EU 2016/801 into our own legislation, which requires the entry and residence conditions of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, traineeship, voluntary work, student exchange programmes or educational projects and the work of ou pair guards. Which means that this Directive clearly states in what way, under what conditions and in what forms this is possible. And these conditions were, in fact, more or less already in force before the novel itself entered into force.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Minister. Your time's up. Mr. Željko Cigler, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u210	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would just like to say this that in Slovenia we have strengthened the conditions for access to studies for students from third countries. You're gonna give us those numbers. I hope to receive them personally. We find it difficult to refer to these focussings on foreigners in the EU directives, which I do not think is true. And secondly, the numbers you have given us now, because they are very beautiful, but only the fact remains, is the fact – it has made it difficult to have practical access to studies in Slovenia. Madam Minister, you did not comment, nor did you object when a government proposal for a law on foreigners was adopted. And I still think – by numbers we will see how it is – that it has put irreparable and long-term consequences in Slovenia for the development of higher education in Slovenia. Much damage, in particular that is the essence, will be done to foreign students who are studying or would like to study in Slovenia. Many who have reached a certain level may not be able to complete their studies and their educational course has been severely interrupted by this law. Anyway, we're making it look good, that's the facts. So, Madam Minister, I ask you this: How do you comment, as Minister responsible for education, on the new harsh condition of proving sufficient means of survival by foreign students? Because this certainly does not affect their quality or their ability to study positively because there were no problems with foreign students in the past. I also know from the time of my study that a lot of foreign students who studied with us were also employed for money through the student service or in some other ways acquired funds to pay the bills honestly by a hospitable Slovenia. Is Slovenia hospitable today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u212	Certainly today Slovenia is very hospitable and wants foreign students, because this is always a very important quality in the higher education process; also that our students are going abroad for a while. Also on the basis of the information I have presented to you and we will also provide them to you in writing if you wish – in full and through the years and after each university – we do not really have problems with foreign students. Even more, this number grows nicely every year, and so does it. It is a fact — and what you open up as a potential problem — of respect for the rule of law. In fact, we have introduced a binding directive of the European Union into our national space. If this is a dilemma, then the answer here is respect for the rule of law. As for the foreign students themselves and our Slovenian higher education system, I am confident that you and I share the assessment that modernisation is needed. In particular, Slovenian higher education space is not favourable to foreign students in the sense that it does not guarantee the implementation of the basic educational process in foreign language as well. And all the foreign students who come to us have special, only English performances, which of course does not necessarily mean that they are in groups with Slovenian students. And this is at a time of internationalisation and globalisation of the world something that has, in fact, gone into development and also in the education of our young generations rather than anything else. Maybe another piece of information because I still have time to serve you with that information. What we are very careful about, and I believe that they are also at the level of individual universities, is that the rash of foreign students from the first to second year is extremely high, which is almost 50% of foreign students are not advancing into a senior year from the first to the second year. This is the information I have for 2018/2019. Let's say in the third year and then from the second to the third year, this percentage of progress is already 83%. This information can also tell us a number of things in the light of your question. Which means that absolute Slovenia is and must remain open to foreign students, it must respect the rule of law and the rules in force in this context. And that's how we're gonna keep doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Brickler, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u214	Thank you very much. My procedural proposal is for the National Assembly to hold a debate on this issue for education to be an important and useful problem, in particular from the point of view of not closing the door to foreign students on the basis of any criteria which I think are unacceptable to modern Europe for students from third countries. As for the rash, Madam Minister, I do not think this rash is much different for our students, or perhaps even bigger. That's the way it is. The fact is, once again, that this is a useful exchange of cultures, of mutual association, of knowledge that is passed on to one another here. There is also a lot of our students studying in third countries, not only in the European Union, and I think they are welcome and supported by the country. For this reason, I think that Slovenia should also cultivate one such very kind, open view, attitude towards this issue. Of course, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 20 October 2021 in the framework of the votes. Now Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik has the floor. She will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Janez Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, Minister! My question today is like this. As you know, tomorrow we have a second reading of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pharmacy. The law went to the committee through what was proposed, but then the coalition partners SDS and NSI tabled an amendment and justify the prohibition of the vertical link publicly and publicly with the following arguments. Firstly, with the professional independence of the pharmacists, whose primary responsibility was the care for the health of the individual and the protection of public health. Secondly, minimising the economic impact on the professional decisions of pharmacists and the functioning of pharmaceutical operators in accordance with professional and ethical standards. Thirdly, the regulation of a pharmacy activity with a view to regulating the area of illicit links that could affect economic activity through ownership. NSI and SDS therefore state that there could be an impact on the pharmacist to issue the medicine, or on the conflict of interest only because the pharmacist is in municipal ownership. Of course, this is one big argument for hair drawn not to say bluff, because we all know that the doctor who writes a drug is the one who issues it to the pharmacist according to what it says on that letter. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Firstly, do you know that sponsored congresses are visited mainly by doctors and not pharmacists employed in some pharmacies? Secondly, how many times have you been as a doctor and your Secretary of State, Alenka Forte, at such sponsored congresses by public-owned wholesalers, at least Farmadent or LL Grossista? Thirdly, how many times have you been at sponsored congresses by drug manufacturers since your first job? Fourthly, how many times has your secretary of state been at such sponsored congresses by drug manufacturers? And fifthly, why do you and your Secretary of State, Alenka Forte, support the privatisation of Farmadent, which is currently in 100 percent municipal property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member Lydia Divac Mirnik! The Act on Pharmaceutical Activity 1 (ZDL-1) was adopted by the legislator five years ago and placed the quality, safety and efficiency of ensuring the supply of medicines to the patient and thus public interest and non-profit activity and profit creation first. At the time of the epidemic, there was no doubt for a moment that our pharmacies would be able to provide adequate medicines for our residents and residents. Therefore, on my part, sincere thanks to everyone in the pharmacies for their involvement and work, for much of the success of treatment or health care depends exactly on the firm network of pharmacies. The legal restrictions in the ZLD-1 are intended to ensure the professional integrity of employees and the professionally independent management of pharmacy activities for the benefit of the patient. The regulation of pharmacy activities also includes general restrictions on the operators of pharmacy activities laid down in Article 26 of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activity 1. With regard to the so-called vertical links and their appropriateness to the current regime, the Constitutional Court also ruled that the current regime was in accordance with the Constitution. As you know, in the National Assembly, a group of Members and Members tabled a proposal for a novel. But the first one was Mr. Mag. Dušan Verbich. From 31. 12. 2021 A legal period shall expire by which the operators of a pharmacy activity which, on the date of the entry into force of the Act on Pharmacy Activity 1, did not comply with the conditions laid down in Article 26, must harmonise their activities. In practice, it means that, as you said, ownership of LL Grossist and Pharmadent should be regulated in such a way that it is no longer the owner of a public pharmacy. I believe that there are a number of needs for amendments to the Pharmacy Act, because since its implementation, as I said, it has been around 5 years, so that we also have a designated working group at the Ministry, which is preparing a proposal for amendments to this Act. What arrangement is appropriate? I believe that he will accept the National Assembly as a legislator, thus, of course, telling us how right it is. We may have different views on regulation, but it is right for the majority to say how they believe that this area will be regulated in the future. For all we do is work in accordance with democratic principles, and we know what that means. On the other hand, I would still take advantage of the opportunity and perhaps address it to allow smaller municipalities to have pharmacies where they do not yet have them, regardless of the number of inhabitants and the distance from the previous pharmacy, if they also have a primary health care provider in the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, everything is fine and fine. Everything you've told me, I actually know, but thank you again for this renewal. But you haven't answered either of my five very specific questions. I'll do it again. So I'm asking you: Do you know that sponsored congresses are visited mainly by doctors and not pharmacists who are employed in pharmacies? Secondly, how many times were you as a doctor and your Secretary of State forte at sponsored congresses by wholesalers? Thirdly, how many times have you been at sponsored congresses by drug manufacturers since your first job? How many times have Mrs. State Secretary Forte been to such sponsored congresses? And why do you and your secretary of state support the privatisation of Farmadent? In more than 50 years of his development, the pharmacist created generations and generations of pharmacists and, of course, other employees who worked in the supply system in the field of medicines in Maribor and North-East Slovenia. In Maribor, part of the infrastructure of the present UKC Maribor was also built with self-contribution, and in a similar way, the pharmacy system was built in the same way. So I don't understand why we should privatize him now. Why are you and your ministry neglecting the public owner, namely the Municipality of Maribor and other nearby municipalities, and favoring a private, almost reliable foreign owner, who, of course, pays taxes elsewhere? So why is a public owner, in your opinion, less valuable than a private foreign owner? That's what I'm asking you and asking politely for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Poklukar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Thank you for complementing the question. As for the attendance of congresses by healthcare professionals, explicitly doctors, I don't have accurate data and I can't answer that. Neither can I answer you about my own or anyone else's participation in the Ministry of Health. As for the law currently in force, I had nothing to do with it when it was adopted. However, it has been in force for five years, so there is no need for a bad will and a search for a guilty person now, for what it is like. As far as favoritism is concerned. Once again, we have a well-accessible and functioning public network of pharmacies, complemented by concessionaires. We have over 300 pharmacies, about 70 concessionaires, and the network is more than good, and I believe it needs to be upgraded. I never favoured privatisation anywhere, so maybe my words were misinterpreted or misunderstood. It is true, however, that we also solve our two public tradesmen in the right way, because this moment of course needs to be resolved, I can agree with you. However, in the next moment, in steps that some may not see at this time, this may mean a general application of this rule for all. And I believe it will be harder to maintain a public network. This fear exists, but it's just fear. Maybe then we'll see if the law changes again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u224	Yes, of course, I have a procedural proposal to discuss the Minister's response to any of the next meetings. This will definitely happen tomorrow at the second reading. Mr Minister, you are saying that you have not favoured privatisation, I can tell you what your secretary of state has read on the committee for the last time to Members, to defend the interests of the congregation and therefore of a private one. In short, I would politely ask that, before tomorrow's debate with your secretary of state, you should talk a little bit, to begin with, let the lady read the law that we will be considering tomorrow, because she obviously didn't read it the last time before she came here to answer our questions. For it speaks of the fact that the professional integrity of the employees and the professional independence of the management of pharmacy activities will be disabled for the benefit of patients if the Farmadent remains in municipal ownership. And then we can only ask her if it's better to own a foreign multinational. Then this expertise will be greater, or how? In short, it is likely that a few more arguments will have to be put forward for tomorrow's meeting. I don't want to hear from the secretary of state again tomorrow, who speaks the language of a foreign multinational here and does not advocate public interest. Because no one in public office can defend that a wholesaler who is currently in the 100th-dozen municipal property has a majority, plus a locality to sell such a wholesaler to a foreign multinational. No one can defend this by taking over the office of Secretary of State at the Ministry. But if he's doing it, then he's in a very wrong job. I would therefore politely ask you to coordinate these opinions. And I would also kindly ask you to tell us – I believe that you cannot at this time recall the exact answers you have been to these sponsored congresses – and I would like to know how many times Mrs. State Secretary was at such congresses tomorrow, given how loyally she defends multinationals in foreign ownership because she probably has some interest in this. I guess I'm wrong, so I'd like to have these answers, of course, so there's not going to be anything unanswered. I also agree with you that it may be necessary to resolve these things in a different way, even in those small congregations where the pharmacy is located. By the way, in the municipality of Lovrenc in Pohorje, Maribor pharmacies have their own pharmacy, which makes a loss, apparently. But because they are in a public network, of course they cover this loss with other pharmacies or profits from other pharmacies. So I find it extremely irresponsible of you and the Secretary of State to support [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u225	Thank you very much. You're running out of time, but we understand your procedural proposal. The National Assembly will decide on it on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now he has the word, Mr Boštjan Koražija. He will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u226	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. In fact, learning problems are a very complex and persistent phenomenon and, in the opinion of many experts, even in the field of education, school failure is one of the most difficult problems to solve. Unfortunately, too, all those who deal professionally with these problems and problems are well aware of this. The covida-19 epidemic also brought additional problems in the field of student distress. I would like to highlight in particular the link between personal and mental distress and the learning problems of students and students. We all know that in primary school teachers are obliged to provide and also to involve students and students in additional forms of the adjusted program, while in secondary and vocational schools the issue is a little more complicated and complicated, as teaching aid is linked to the economic ability of parents. And here is also the biggest problem of this additional assistance, which should be provided to all students and students, students and students and students. Now I'm personally interested, Madam Minister, I'm asking you a question: In this regard, did you foresee any changes in the direction of increased funding for supplementary education in primary schools? As we know, I've been in the field a lot lately, and I've been talking to my parents, my primary schoolmates, and actually here is the biggest flaw, or even the biggest problem, that's happened because of this distance school or school as far away as I can go. Then the second question is: Have you also considered introducing a state-funded supplementary education for both secondary and vocational schools, at least for a limited period of time? For example, two or three or perhaps even more years after the end of this emergency situation of covida-19, because obviously there will be a lot to do in this area and also to prepare as best strategies as possible in the sense that students will really come to this knowledge or to understand the knowledge they want to acquire or acquire. I want to know: Have you foreseen any financial assistance in terms of supplementary learning? Do you also have a strategy at the Ministry of Education regarding this postcovid time that will cause us all a lot of problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member of Koražija, you are actually asking about one of the most demanding, sensitive professional issues of the educational process, which we have been dealing with in some way and have been responding to for many years. I can say that we have just one such stable institutionalized network of help for those students, those students who have difficulty meeting the standards of knowledge or who have learning problems. They have the right to continue aid. They may receive this right or form of assistance in four different forms, depending on the complexity and needs; either through individual assistance from the teacher himself, supplementary education, study during extended stay, internal differentiation, individualisation, teaching aids, extended working hours, for example. Then the second form is the help of the school advisory service: diagnostics, counselling to students, parents, teachers, guidance. The third form is individual and group aid. This is in the form of, say, work in smaller groups, adaptation of methods and forms of work, teaching technical tools, management and evaluation. The fourth form is also the opinion and assistance of an external professional institution, such as pedoshiatric dispensers, children's personal physicians, counselling centres, development clinics, advice to children, parents, schools in the form of direct professional assistance. And then there may also be a proposal for guidance. By focusing then on the education and education programme with adapted implementation and additional professional assistance, the child can then receive adjustments based on the opinion of the steering commission, namely three types of additional professional assistance. This is teaching aid, aid for overcoming deficits, obstacles or disruptions, and advisory services. Why is this now very visual or am I putting it specifically? To show you how complex and also professionally demanding is the response to the various forms of assistance that students need with learning problems; and how much this is, first of all, a professional question that the teacher first undisputedly recognizes at this individual level and then, on the basis of this, a process of guidance in one of these forms. What I can tell you through statistics is that both at the primary school level and at the secondary school level, there are different measures, as well as the number of students targeted, students from year to year more. Even before the epidemic, it is a phenomenon that is probably also professionally related to change, the complexity of society, the social relations in which we live. What is crucial, however, is that, on the one hand, we have measures in the form of professional assistance and, on the other hand, the measures you are asking are genuine support for operators or decision makers in identifying and financially supporting such measures. I can assure you that we are doing this all the time, especially during this term, with extra attention and sensitivity. A comprehensive evaluation study on the consequences and proposals for the epidemic in terms of recovery and the measures needed is also being concluded at this time. Maybe some more details later in the second set of answers and explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazia, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u230	As the Minister has already very well established, this is a matter that already existed before the crown of time. In fact, only this crown time or time of the covida-19 epidemic has further deepened these matters and, in fact, has further exposed them in terms of the profession. I don't know, because today you have been informed, Madam Minister, by this constitutional decision, where the Constitutional Judges have assessed the constitutionality of the Law on Temporary Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of COVID-19, which was adopted in October last year. The Court found that this law was essentially inconsistent with the Constitution, namely Article 104 of the Act, which authorises the Minister of Education to order distance education in primary schools and educational institutions for children with special needs. However, it might also be desirable, since matters are quite linked, including with regard to this teaching aid and this matter, this Decision essentially refers to this 104th paragraph at all. It's about protecting children with special needs. And in fact, you have been given too wide a field regarding the legal framework itself. I'll ask you again if you can comment on this constitutional decision. At the same time, I would like to ask if you also have a broader set of systemic solutions available in terms of people who are registered at the employment agency, as they would also be willing to offer additional school assistance or professional assistance. Sadly, however, it is also often the case that teachers are not in the sense of education but are able to master certain knowledge. If you can explain things to me in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that in this case we are discussing in the field of education and education the most vulnerable group of children, students, students, and then students. And that in addition to this elementary profession, which is a teaching profession, we also need the help of other professions. The professions of the so-called advisory services that we have are always linked to working with these children, and this must be acknowledged, in our country to a limited extent. We would need more, especially at this time, not just in the field of education and education, but in general we are now observing this. At the same time, however, it is important to note in particular that such difficult questions and hardships also require an extremely professional approach and response. Only then can we really help these children, perhaps in the field of education or in the field of purely personal development. And that is why we really need to be extremely careful about this. We will do our utmost to support all those professional measures that will be proposed by experts who are now doing evaluation and also proposals for the future. However, we must not look too quickly for solutions that will prove to be counterproductive. And now you're asking me about the current decision of the Constitutional Court. I'll tell you again. When we were in an unknown time, in difficult situations, when we were talking not only about the issue of health protection, but actually about life and death, we were looking for the most secure and optimal solution for the education of all our children, especially these groups, of course, we weighed first the right to health, to life. And in this connection, the most optimal way of education for them, which we knew existed, we just had to look for them, while at the same time really protecting the lives of these children. And that was the response of the covido, and that was the response in these groups of the day, whether we have covid or not. We need to weigh these two basic professions here when we are looking for the best ways to help them and educate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u233	Mr. Korazia, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u234	Yes, as the Minister has now come to a very good conclusion in the end, we are talking about the weakest and most vulnerable in our society, but we are also talking about their future and our future. I therefore propose that a broader debate be held on the response of the Minister in the National Assembly. Because I think, given what she mentioned earlier, that it would be right for things to be further developed or expanded, it is only right that things be further developed and regulated at this level at national level. And at the same time, in fact, it should always be our task here in the National Assembly to enable the profession to find solutions. Politics, however, had to be always and always only a form of support or assistance in these matters. And, as I say, I propose that a broader debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now he's got the word "magic." Andrei Reich. He's going to ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. Mr Andrej Širclj and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Minister, I have an actual question for two areas. One area which is essentially SDH, which manages companies, is under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance. And for the consequences that this energy crisis can have on the economy, I also refer to the Minister of Economy. We know that it is safe, reliable and affordable to provide geostrategic care for each country, for the welfare of the inhabitants and for the economy. And we know that the market in Slovenia is liberalised, that means that the country does not interfere with it and that the providers must somehow float with market conditions. Meanwhile, this year we are witnessing an unprecedented rise in energy prices, especially natural gas and electricity. Since there are quite a few of these companies that deal in the retail of energy, which are owned by the state, I am actually interested in: What is the management strategy for these companies? Do they have in their strategy that they must conclude such contracts that eliminate such price risks as we are now witnessing to them? Because now we see that, on the one hand, these companies, i.e. those energy traders, have long-term contracts with their customers; on the other hand, they have suppliers, i.e. producers of electricity, concluded short-term contracts. And as a result, there are also these risks, as we are now witnessing in the market. And, of course, it gives us a sense that these companies do not manage these risks. And that's why the question is: Are the departments in these companies in control of this? Are the supervisory councils in which the state also has representatives in control of these matters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Minister, who wants the first word? Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u238	Thank you so much for asking. For the first time or in the half of my time, we can talk about changes in energy prices today. It's hard to talk about the energy crisis. I think the word crisis has some negative appeal. It is true, however, that these price changes can continue if they last too long. Here are Europe's estimates that in the first half of 2022, in the first quarter, these prices were set. The market isn't liberal, it's a liberal margin, if you're talking about oil derivatives. Not here. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, the market is liberalized in the field of oil derivatives. The margin is liberalized. But it's different in all countries. This year, speaking of strategy, you found that they have a long-term contract for most of them. I don't know these long-term contracts and I don't know them either, because, of course, there are contractual secrecy in certain cases. I think there's a lot going on here when I'm talking about electricity and prognosis, for some speculations that are premature. In fact, electricity in Slovenia has not yet been or has not been irritated. From this point of view, I think it'll stay that way for a while. On the other hand, electricity users have the option to choose the most favourable provider. At times like these, it certainly gets to the point where it gets to the point. Some predictions, and so on, are speculative, in my view unnecessary, and from this point of view, I do not think that there should be significant changes in the field of electricity. It is true, however, that the government is certainly preparing short-term measures in the field of energy in order to protect those most vulnerable people if this happens. It hasn't come to that yet. I don't even know if it's coming. Medium-term measures also at European Union level, where the creation of a European fund is also envisaged; and in the long term, this is that Slovenia, like Europe, is less dependent on suppliers and is more self-sufficient, is said to produce most of the energy in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Minister Rest, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u240	Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Andrey Reich, the Honorable National Assembly! Thank you for the question, too, on my part. As Minister for Economic Development and Technology, I am not in charge of the energy sector or the state of the electricity and natural gas market, but the issue of high energy prices is still directly and directly linked to the economy, so I would like to make a meaningful contribution to the relevant solutions. As you know, rising energy prices have taken place at global level, so we cannot blame only the management of Slovenian energy companies for increasing energy prices, nor can it be made clear to the supervisory boards that they did not adequately monitor the operations of these companies. The government does not have a direct leverage here, because these companies work independently and independently. Of course, the government has already addressed comprehensive information on this issue on Thursday. We have checked a set of the most acceptable measures to help the economy and citizens in the short term. And even today, meetings continue to form a set of concrete measures to mitigate the current price crisis in the energy market. I am confident that with the right measures we will make sure that the current consequences of price anomalies on global energy markets will be felt as little as possible, as we have in the covida-19 epidemic, which is recognised by the wider and outside Slovenia. I believe that we will take appropriate measures to analyse the situation. However, it is important to be aware that we have three energy players and that we do not have the same opportunities for all three energy players to make moves because at least two things are related to world prices.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Reich, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u242	Thank you very much for the comprehensive answers. But only in this sense would I continue my debate. At the outbreak of covida-19, the European Commission drew attention to the possibility of anomalies on the market and also to the possibility of hostile acquisitions. So it can also happen in this light that a foreign company will have leased cheap energy and will penetrate the market and, of course, take over customers. When we talk about mobility or these calls for customers to go to a more favourable provider, they are, of course, normal and logical in normal circumstances. However, I am afraid — because it is obviously one anomaly in the market — that these anomalies in the global market, where Slovenia has a very small, almost insignificant share, may also have consequences for what hostile takeovers. And in this sense, this would mean the hostile takeover of consumers, and in this light, I would also appeal for these matters to be checked. It is clear to me that you are now either unable to answer this question or I would like to, and I would like to propose this moment to discuss this subject at one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We will take your proposal for a debate into account. First, I give the two ministers the floor for additional answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I now see no great fear here, because, for the first time, hostile acquisitions do not occur overnight, but certainly not within our legal framework. That's the first one. I don't know what you mean by hateful takeover either, because every takeover isn't hateful, it's a legal tumnus talking about it. There's no problem with that angle. And the next issue, though, thanks for the warning, but we do have a strategy for managing state property, which also states which companies, whose companies, in fact, cannot be taken over if they are strategically important. From this point of view, of course, it is necessary to assume a whole or a majority share. We certainly look at this; or not at us, but at SDH. And certainly there is, in particular, a bold policy in place, a policy that is free from expectations of price increases. That's the biggest problem. Today, let's all talk about raising electricity prices, but it hasn't or hasn't risen; and we don't know what it's going to be like. Here is the creation of expectations, including inflation expectations and so on. This is certainly not only here today, but also in Europe one of the important problems that we also have to solve. Of course, on the basis of appropriate communication, and I think we are doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Minister Rest, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u246	Thank you. I think that most of our energy distributors have purchased things for at least some time, on the other hand larger companies. But we can't help those who speculated. But I think there's even more speculation going on in the market of these three energists.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Given that we have already received a procedural proposal, we will also decide on it on Wednesday as part of the vote. Now we continue with the questions. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Each Member State of the European Union or signatory to the Convention on the recovery of maintenance claims abroad shall designate an intermediate and reception authority to which maintenance beneficiaries may address their claims for the recovery of unpaid maintenance. In Slovenia, he acts as a mediation body between the maintenance beneficiary and the debtor of the Public Scholarship, Developmental, Disabled and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The Fund therefore participates in recovery abroad or abroad, i.e. in cases where a maintenance beneficiary resides in the territory of one of the Member States of the European Union or a signatory to the Convention and the survivor resides or has property or income in the territory of another Member State of the European Union or a signatory to the Convention. In this regard, I ask you: How many cases of recovery from abroad has the Fund dealt with annually since the establishment of this institution? I'm asking for information for each year individually. What is the procedure for international recovery after a family beneficiary who does not receive a maintenance allowance has given the Fund a judgment in which the maintenance is determined? I ask for a detailed description of the procedure and of the evidence to which the beneficiary must have the power to provide the Fund with legal assistance in recovery of maintenance from abroad. I also want to know: How successful are recoverys from abroad, how successful are they in part, and how successful are they? I request data for each year separately for the period since the establishment of this Institute. In what way do the recovery of unpaid maintenance benefit beneficiaries residing in the territory of a State other than a member of the European Union or a signatory to the Convention and where they reside in the territory of a State other than a member of the European Union or a signatory to the Convention, the debtor or debtor? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Member Violeta Tomić for this question! I must say that I would answer this in a much easier and comprehensive manner, because it is an extremely extensive topic, and I will now try to answer your questions as comprehensively as possible in this short-term period of time. The fund you mentioned is a central mediation and reception body and, as such, accepts requests for the resolution of foreign central authorities. Before 1 April 2017, these tasks were carried out by the State Defence Units and, in cases where a maintenance debtor resides in Slovenia, he does not have any funds and the proposed enforcement proposal thus submitted would not be successful, the Fund is attempting to conclude an out-of-court recovery for voluntary repayment of the debt. Thus, on 31 March 2017, the Fund took up 322 cases from the Ministry of Labour, 106 of them from abroad and 214 from which the request was sent abroad. The Ministry also dismissed two issues with the general questions of the parties concerning the procedure for recovery of maintenance from abroad. On 1 April 2017, the State Defence Fund, now the State's Attorney's Office, received 82 enforcement cases for 75 debtors. On 30 September 2021 the Fund shall keep 149 requests received in response from a foreign central authority; most from Austria 48, Bosnia and Herzegovina 39, Serbia 14 and Croatia 13. Another time. The Fund shall advise legal representatives, creditors, as an intermediary body, on the procedure for lodging a claim for recovery of maintenance from abroad. It shall also draw up lists of necessary documentation provided by the trustee to the Fund and obtain documentation from the courts, CSDs, administrative units. The Fund is continuously monitoring the resolution of claims abroad, sending explanations of the legislation in force in the Republic of Slovenia to a foreign authority, as recovery is made under the domestic law of the recipient country, but it is also necessary to take into account the applicable legislation of the country in which the maintenance decision was issued. Therefore, on the basis of a decision of the court whereby the maintenance was determined, or the CSD agreement, and of the State to which the legal representative or beneficiary wishes to submit the recovery request, the Fund must first determine by which law the application is to be lodged and then draw up an appropriate list of documents to be supplied to the Fund by the party — that is, pursuant to Council of European Communities Regulation No 4/2009 — the original or copy of the legal enforceable decision by which the maintenance was determined, and that party shall obtain it in a district court which has also issued the document. In the same district court, the party shall request that the court issue an extract of the decision on the forms prescribed. If the application is sent to Germany, under German law, the condition for the initiation of the enforcement procedure is proof of the maintenance debtor's participation in the determination of the maintenance and that the decision issued has also been given. Additional documentation obtained from the District Court shall be required, in particular, a copy of the copy of the minutes in the main proceedings with the visible signatures of the parties in the proceedings, a copy of the evidence, the fevers, the invitation of the debtor to the main hearing, a copy of the evidence of the notification of the order to the debtor, if possible, of the decision to appoint a temporary representative for the reception of the documents and other documents. I'm sorry. I have a voice problem today. The documents must be officially translated through a judicial interpreter into a German language. Where a judicial settlement has been concluded at the Centre for Social Work, an original or copy of the agreement with the clauses on jurisdiction, enforceability and withdrawal of the agreement shall be requested, for each beneficiary a separate certificate of all the reconciliations of maintenance. For each beneficiary, the debt table on the form submitted, the form completed, the request for recovery of maintenance on the forms, the photocopy of the bank card, the signed consent to transfer personal data abroad on the accompanying or prescribed forms shall be completed. I hope that I will still have the opportunity to continue, because there is something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u251	Dear Minister, I fully understand your voice issues. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Tomić, Mrs. Tomić, will you allow me to do my job? Thank you. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. Mrs. Tomić, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u253	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Yeah, I was quick. Dear Minister, because I fully understand your voice problems, because I also had them last week because of the deadly poison that was mixed into the tear gas and the water that was sprayed in the centre of Ljubljana, which cost me quite a good two weeks' worth of voice, I will no longer torture you by supplementing the question, but I will ask you in writing, because the things that I am interested in are very precise and exhausting all that I have asked you as a question, and I will be satisfied with you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u254	Thank you very much. You can respond to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your understanding. We will answer your question in writing and we will, I think, help each other best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mrs. Natasa Sukić is up. She will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Janez Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u257	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, distinguished minister! Look, you can't go blind. The government already knows the time of crisis shows the actual complete inability to control the epidemic, so we are at the top of those countries where covida-19 mortality is the highest, and that is why we are among the countries that have closed schools the longest. Unfortunately, in the case of PCT, the government continued to act in a catastrophic way. In fact, the government did not go away from vector vaccines, the government did not take into account the profession; it did not even take into account scientific knowledge. How else do you explain your August amendment to the decree that you have prescribed that Janssen receive a European sign on the day of vaccination and all other vaccines on the day of second-dose vaccination? This is completely absurd and contrary to expertise. It's like the vaccine works immediately when you inject it into your body. You did not listen to the NIJ, which on 31 August suggested that this should be fixed, namely, that the protection status of the protected person be officially fulfilled within a week of the second dose and 14 days after vaccination with the other vaccines; that is, with Janssen for 14 days after vaccination. The NIJ has been tried again, they have proposed a re-adjustment of the decree and you have not taken them into consideration again. And today’s media information just confirms this – they confirm that you acted contrary to the recommendations of the profession. Therefore, as Minister, you have an objective responsibility for your conduct and should resign in every normal country. As far as PCT is concerned, the fact that this urgent evil is in a situation that could be avoided should the Government communicate with its citizens in an appropriate and professional manner. The fact is that conditions change too often all the time that people do not get used to them and that is why some do not respect them. As is the fact that government vaccination campaigns are not practical, although this should be a priority. At each corner you should read about the positive effects of vaccines, about social benefits, about solidarity, experts should be available to people 24 hours a week for any questions. Vaccination should be the current topic in the workplaces, offices and so on. In short, you're completely screwed. Then you say, if you don't get the vaccine, then PCT will be a condition; then people go to the vaccine and they are told, okay, if you take Janssen, PCT will apply to you the next day, and you only have to get the vaccine once, but you don't take the profession into account, you don't tell them about the risks or when the vaccine offers protection. It's deception, and it's negligence. There is no one else to blame objectively for this situation than you, Minister-in-Charlie, so you have to step down. I want to know: Will you do that? Will you step down? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u259	Vice President, thank you so much for saying this. Dear Members, honourable Members! Dear Mrs Natasa Sukić, thank you very much for the question raised. When we talk about vaccination and control of the epidemic, I always agree with positive communication and awareness that the epidemic is a social problem, not an individual problem, not a government or anyone else. That is why once again a call to everyone: we will only be able to manage the epidemic together. As regards the implementation of the vaccination, let me say, of course, that the vaccination has been carried out since 27 December 2020, that there is sufficient vaccine in the country provided and that the vaccine protects against severe disease. As regards measures to ensure that vaccination is as accessible as possible and, of course, as a key principle, the widest possible availability of vaccination has been followed by a series of measures such as open vaccination centres. At first we had lists, then open vaccination centres, then vaccinations in family doctors' clinics, vaccination at home for vulnerable groups, mobile teams at various locations, then vaccination at hospitals for those who are hospitalized, and those who are coming for examinations. Since the beginning of summer, when there are enough vaccines or since the end of spring, it is also possible to select a vaccine. Then the provision of vaccination for employees in the economy, in accordance with arrangements with all the competent chambers and, of course, individual companies, where we carried out this vaccination actively with medicine of work, transport and sport. Then the widest local community, mayors and civil society were activated to reach every individual at every level, to bring each citizen and body closer to vaccination. At the same time, the implementation of the PCT rule and the application of a visible certificate. As for vaccination, transplantation, we need to know that in 2019 we had 6 percent of people vaccinated against influenza. When people were vaccinated against the flu, they received a card in their hands with the date of vaccination and this was valid from that day on. As we speak of today's numbers, we know that we have exceeded 60 percent of the population's immunization over 18 years of age, and this is proof of how effectively vaccination against covid is controlled by the epidemic, because we know that today's epidemic is significantly better, in line with transplantation, we control it more than a year ago. Of course, we also implement the CPT protocol, vaccinated, overcame, tested by testing from the infection chain as quickly as possible, getting those who are sick and removing them as quickly as possible to prevent the spread of infections. On the other hand, the epidemic does not end, but helps guide or direct it, while vaccination and the patients here actively contribute because today, at the beginning of the epidemic, we would have a new variant of a virus to which vaccines or patients would not have sufficient or equal resistance. Higher fragmentation in certain municipalities is, of course, the result of good local organisation and local pro-activity. However, we will continue to focus on those parts of society that are lagging behind. Of course, these are individual local environments, and then, of course, the activation takes into account non-governmental organisations and wider civil society. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u261	Yes, thank you very much. Dear Minister, you haven't answered my key questions. You didn't tell me anything about why you didn't consider your profession when you were driving with Jansen, which is a very big tragedy. You have not answered any questions about whether you accept an objective responsibility, we do not know why you have not explained anything to people all this time and really listened to them why you did not listen to the profession. And if you don't have the dignity to step down, even though I've had you at the highest level of all ministers by now, I have to say, I've respected you most in the entire ministerial assembly, then step back at least and allow free testing for everyone and think about how to show people that vaccination is the right decision. Think of all the poor, poor pensioners, the unemployed, the nicknames, the students, the minimum wage workers. These people are not at all guilty of the government’s confusion and inability to communicate about covids, communication that scares them more than anything else, and many are not actually vaccinated for this. And these people are too poor to pay for expensive tests. I want to know: Do you really want to isolate them, exclude them from society? But if this does not work out, Minister, I call you again, stand down, show your dignity, because so far you have shown it most than anyone else, and let this work be done by someone who is more capable of you. After all, it's about life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to respond? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u263	Vice President, thank you so much for saying this. Mrs Sukič, thank you very much for the additional question or for reminding me to complete it. As a human and as a doctor, of course, I absolutely regret any death that is related in any way to medical activity or to the medical environment. The fact is, as Minister, I always make the best of my conscience, and I believe that I am here as well. I always try to respect and follow the profession. Speaking of the above-mentioned decision, which I have explained several times, why interpretation is different from what you want to show, is the fact that it was an administrative measure that equates the use of a digital cadaver certificate with a card that someone receives at the time of vaccination. Because it doesn't say on the card when someone gets an immunity card, or the status of the disease, and it's lifeless to expect that all over Slovenia, who are doing CPT, will know that. There's nothing I can do to say that I'm deeply shaken as a man to politicize the death of an individual. I would like you to withdraw this from political debate. Because I believe that the expert analyses and examinations that will show what was really going on and how right it is. As far as vaccination with Jansen is concerned. Each monovalent vaccine is called a vaccine, which is given once, compared to where we are vaccinated twice, is more manageable for the same reasons, regardless of when the digital visible certificate becomes effective. There's always a difference of one month. Thus, of course, this argument is in no way sustainable. I thank you again for the initiative on free testing. We'll think about her. However, let me say that I will continue to try, to think about everything together, and also to wait for the final results and to act as a minister in my conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs Sukič, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Of course, I am procedurally proposing that we hold this crucial very important debate in the National Assembly. In fact, the Minister mentioned that I did not mention the death of this girl, I mentioned the fact that in this country it was not warned that Janssen should not be vaccinated under the age of 40; what they have accepted in other countries. If the opinion of the profession hadn't been taken into account, that's what I've been alerting you to. So, of course, the minister did not really answer me why he did not follow the NEIJ recommendations. They've been sent to his office twice. That is why this debate is, of course, crucial. However, I have already indicated in the introduction that the Government's actions in the fight against the epidemic have always been inconsistent, inconsistent and full of contradictions. That's what confused people. Instead of trying to gain the trust and respect of people by putting experts and not politicians at the forefront of the measures, and by trying to enforce consensus policy at any moment, this government is unfortunately acting in a way that separates and generates conflicts. It's not just the minister's fault, it's actually the attitude of this government as such. Maybe this minister is the least guilty of it, which in the situation we are in, of course, proves fatal. Measures such as the promotion of vaccination have, for example, been carried out unintentionally, which is why there has been so little grafting. Slovenia is on Europe's tail, it's not going to go blind. These are the facts. Anti-vaccination, for example, should be very careful. If we have each other, for example, for blind people and fools, the rift in society will only deepen. That is why dialogue is crucial, a calm argument is crucial, and it is crucial to inform people in a direct and transparent manner, even when something is very wrong, as this recent case has been. In the European Union, for example, against covid-19 with all doses currently vaccinated, about 74 per cent of the adult population, with 17 countries with at least 70 per cent of the population being vaccinated. But Slovenia is, I think, 55.7 per cent, maybe today there's a percentage more, full of the worst. There are only five countries behind us. For example, more than 90% of immunizations have Portugal, Malta, Iceland, Ireland and Denmark. Slovenia is behind us only Slovakia, Latvia, Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria. [[…]] And that's bad. And that's why we need to talk about it. I am thinking of some other measures that I will soon address to you as part of my mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u266	Thank you very much. It's really the key to dialogue. Do something this way. Otherwise, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow or Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The word is given by Primož Siter, who will question the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. Good evening, distinguished Minister of Culture, who also covers the media department, so I refer the following question to him. Ukoma’s 8 million euro annual budget money allocated by the State to advertise its services is being discussed by Ukoma. The ministries then spend this money on advertising campaigns of various things, such as military service in the Slovenian Army, promoting vaccination, forests and food and so on and so on. There's nothing to worry about here. In several places, however, it is noted that this money is being distributed recklessly – here we come up with a problem – contrary to some professional guidelines on sound advertising logic and professions, to say the least, and with an obvious client note. Here are NSIs and SDS mainly protagonists of these political propaganda actions. In neighbouring Austria, for example, we have a recent case of events around Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who, due to similar disclosures, resigned because through advertising contracts, state advertising contracts, bought media popularity, prepared public opinion polls and so on, or the results of these. And then Kurz gave up. But it's different with us, and this is where I get directly to the minister's department. This is, of course, a question of freedom of the media, a question of freedom of expression, a potentially corrupt action with a view to being circumstantial in order to say, financing of political parties through connected persons, non-profit institutions or even customer ownership in private companies. The government thus supports the extremely problematic media practices of client media in this way – here, of course, the traditional forerunners of Nova24 and the sincere.net and homeland.is and so on – media, which has also been identified by several foreign sources as links to neo-Nazi propaganda and the spread of intolerance against sexual and ethnic minorities, racism, xenophobia and the very bad news itself. Minister, at this point, I have essentially the following questions: How's the surveillance going? What are the sanctions? How will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stop these rude practices? Who is it that decides at the ministries to allocate public funds to client papers? Is that the Minister himself, but is that some sort of professional framer? Who will be responsible for the catastrophic advertising campaigns? A consulting room, like, vaccine.si, for the e-vinjet campaign, for example, [[…]] This, however, is a reckless waste of public funds and of others who promote dissension in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u269	This is how I would answer the gentleman. The oral question that the gentleman posed to me was addressed to me on Friday afternoon is: “At the 26th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, I will ask you an oral question concerning government party advertising at the expense of public funds.” That's all. Now the gentleman has asked a question that lasts three minutes. Say, say, say and write, 16, 17 lines. I would ask if you would ask me such a question earlier Friday afternoon, when the question should actually be sent by 12 noon, and, of course, give an appropriate qualified answer. But I think it's still incomplete, because the Ministry of Culture is not actually competent for what you're asking. In particular, he cannot respond to the claim, as Mr Siter said it was some kind of rude practice. If he re-counts them, and of course, if he says them as non-sentents, that those he talks about will sue him for immunity here, he can say what he wants. That's right. See, the Ministry of Culture does not specifically deal with advertising issues. Therefore, it is not, of course, responsible for the planning and implementation of the general promotion of the activities of the State, the Ministry of Culture is not responsible. This is what companies do alone, just like they do. Even if they are state-owned, no one has the right to interfere with them. The only president of the government, who, of course, violated the separation of the economy and the executive power, was their partner in what, I don't know, those associations – Lok. This was Mr Marjana Šarec in 2018, who actually advised, would say, order companies that can advertise, who do not. I am not actually competent in these matters, I have no role to play, and I cannot give you the answers that suggest that these are rude practices. This must be addressed to the appropriate other organs and then you will get it. At the Ministry of Culture, we know that there is, of course, a media fund that distributes certain funds to the media every year. This is decided by the people who have all the qualifications, more than anyone else, so that this would be my answer in this regard. But I would ask you to give a more precise, clear answer next time, because otherwise I consider this only if we are talking about propaganda, about your self-promotion, that it seems like you know a lot of things and how well you grab, say, some corner minister, even though the minister is not in charge of it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Simonita, we have been here for a year and a half to point out exactly these things. This thing is not new, the issue of the transfer of public money to client newspapers, in particular owned by the Slovenian Democratic Party and NSI, is something that is a constant, accompanied by your government all the time. But I urge you here because the Ministry of Culture should, in all normal circumstances, be the one to say, a dog guard of the media space, which should ensure that at least some guidelines of basic media hygiene are satisfied. And the answers you have, I see you can shake them out of your hand. There are a number of things that are problematic here that I've written down. However, the fact is that we have been able to read in the Council of Europe's report some time ago, that Slovenia is not doing enough to prevent corruption in the state administration, and here we have this problem of suspicion of corruption, of the functioning of more ministries. I want to know: What will you do in protecting the media landscape in this area? You don't have to be the lawyer of your ministerial colleagues, but you have to be a health lawyer in the media landscape. Sub-question: Do you think it is appropriate for Slovenia, as President of the Council of the European Union, to devote public money to client-related, propaganda portals that are still spreading hatred and intolerance above all? And I think this is a question that should not present a problem for a human, a world-class type of your format.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u273	The compliment at the end is unnecessary because we have different views on this and also the word secularism, I am sure that we understand differently, so we need some knowledge and a wider view of the world. But, well, this is a different range now, these are the mental worlds in which it is probably not appropriate to discuss here, but we have every opinion, so secondly, hold onto these compliments, especially the minister to whom your client expresses a great deal of hatred not least. These words about hygiene are as inappropriate as many words. Given who is responsible for these matters, there is, of course, the Cultural and Media Inspectorate, there is an Agency for the Protection of Competition and Similar Things, and Akos and other institutions to which it would be good to address these issues. The last time the Committee on Culture talked about the media, and you demonstrated the obstruction, you had a lot of opportunity to tell your story. And we've heard all these pranks. But it's about advertising. They advertise companies on their own, and they advertise, if you like, in right-wing newspapers. Now you know, I don't know that they're client papers and so on. Okay! It's just your vision, but these companies are advertising everyone else. And if the media are in the open market, it is right to fight for the share of advertising and companies give it at their own discretion. However, they would probably be surprised at how much they have given in the past to those media that you think are independent and independent, but they are not and are ordinary political third-rate left-wing trumpets, while so-called right-wing media, which are in the minority, are very disadvantaged. Even now. So I don't have this data myself, I thought you'd be doing the exact numbers, but you don't have it, but you're just reading something, and you know a little bit. So, as I would say, companies are free to work and give to different people, as I would say, certain means of advertising to the media and thus measure their success. I'm not the kind of person to get to know myself about advertising. It's likely that companies are giving money on their own account and then measuring the effects of how it's worth it. It's in their own judgment, the state doesn't interfere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u275	Thank you very much. In this case, the state gives money. The problem of public money financing practices for client newspapers is that through the mechanism of state advertising contracts, where millions are turned each year, 8 million according to Ukom data, which then also finances neo-Nazi propaganda practices and other intolerance, I personally see as one of the more serious problems that we cannot find an answer to in the Slovenian political space. Of course you can't let that happen, Minister. The problem is that such propaganda practices normalize neo-Naziism, other intolerances, and the problem is that there are Nova24 and other SDS, which is your customer portals. On the other hand there are your sister's client NSI, the Institute of Honesty and Homeland.Yes and so on. In the case of several ministries, we see that a lot of public money goes into financing client ideologies directly from the budget, and then even European funds are involved. That is why, Mr Vice-President, I call on the National Assembly to debate, because we need to define ourselves to do this illegal work, which, as previously said, in addition to the free media landscape, is also exerting freedom of expression, opening up one broad field of public money fraud and stealing, as it were, to all the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. This, of course, is aimed at financing the media's spread of hatred and intolerance, which is particularly unacceptable. It is therefore a practice, respected Members and Members, which is limited to two ruling political parties, that the benefits of doing so go solely into their pockets and then buy propaganda for public money for their own benefit. Therefore, as it is said, I request that the National Assembly hold a next meeting on this increasingly problematic subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u276	Thank you very much. As far as neo-Nazi markings are concerned, I think we should get this by what criterion, not just according to the client's criteria. It is also not right to finance neo-communist media from public funds. You probably have one of those, too, if this is about pursuing some policies. This case of illegality is decided by the court. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll give it to you, of course I'll give it to you. Now: your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Procedurally Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u277	It is procedural that it is unheard of to comment on parliamentary questions. We've never seen that before. Of course, you are introducing a completely new practice. Your Members are very much attacking us when we are holding meetings for inappropriately minor errors, I will say, you are doing this on purpose. You comment when the views of the members of the groups are expressed. However, it is a perfect precedent for us to experience the president commenting on the question being sent. And I ask you to stop this practice, which is really unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u278	Thank you very much. A colleague, before you address anyone, do a little procedure of introspection, take a little look at yourself, and analyze your work. I'll do mine. Mr. Primaj Siter, please. You have a word for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u279	Two procedural proposals. First of all, what happened to my colleague Violeto Tomić. It has made a procedural proposal in full accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to which you have responded with an obvious, personal discredit, which would be the only valid justification. And the other thing is that. I spoke in my parliamentary question about the facts; the facts that have been brought to bear by excellent Slovenian research journalists and the media projects of the SDS have been linked to publicly declared neo-Nazi groups. Neonazim is a fact, a fact of today's society and here [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u280	Procedural proposal, please, not a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u281	is present and should be addressed. The Minister of Culture is responsible for these media escapades, including neo-Naziism, in Slovenia. My question was substantively entirely in place and completely without any business and procedural competence was your intervention in its content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u282	Dear colleague Siter, as regards the Rules of Procedure, the Code of Ethics and the Constitution, should be respectful, not offensive, with your questions, debates and everything else that belongs in this Chamber. This has not been taken into account in your question of the Member of the Minister. And the rest of us working in this house are subject to the same criteria. Read your basis on which your work should be based, and then we can continue to talk about what is right and who is wrong. Procedurally, Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u283	Presidents, I now expect you to specify in particular what Mr Siter was insulting to the Minister in his question of the House. He was very correct, speaking facts that were known and also picked up by research journalists. What personally offends you in the way you react so savagely, but it is also if we are talking about neo-Naziism in Slovenia, which exists, and it hurts you personally, it speaks more about you than it does about us. [[…]] We have not been offensive anywhere, and, with all due respect, President, I expect you to state in particular what has offended you, where we have violated the ethical code or the rules of this national assembly. You can also prepare yourself in writing, because we will have to draw the President of the National Assembly's attention to this instance of interference with the question of a Member of Parliament. Please state in particular what you are so sorry about the question of the Member State of Primoš Siter, which was very correct and on the basis of verifiable facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u284	My colleague, I did not simply warn you about any of the questions I was sending, any part of Siter's question. Not in any part. I left him a debate on the first question, on the second question and on the procedural proposal. So be precise about what you are saying. I didn't interrupt him at all. But I've pointed out some things that aren't right. And if you read this book, read article 8 of your code of ethics, and you'll find that that wasn't the case. Anti-lawism is not recognised by journalists, the Court concludes — this could already be learned — as regards constitutionality. As for labelling, by the way, I'm a member of a party, but we have nothing to do with neo-Naziism. I don't. And I don't have any problems with that either. So I suggest, well, you stick to certain things and don't push things. We will now interrupt this debate as regards procedural proposals and continue with the questions raised by the Members. Mag. Bojana Mursic will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boštjan Koritnik a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleague, respectable colleague, distinguished minister! I have to take my breath a little bit, because basically this was exactly what was going on right now, completely unnecessary, but let's move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u286	We can wait a minute if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u287	I will proceed with my question to the honourable Minister. There are 212 municipalities in Slovenia today, 11 of which have the status of the municipality. The last two congregations to be established were in 2011. These were the congregations of Ankara and the congregation of Mirna. After 10 years, ideas and desires for the establishment of new ones came back, and some of these ideas were in Gorenjska. From the Municipality of Kranj, several settlements were to secede to the new municipality of Golnik, and two settlements were to secede from Radovljica Municipality and Malečnik was to be separated from the Municipality of Maribor. At the time of the idea of establishing the new municipality of Kokrica - Predojlje you have estimated that the network of Slovenian municipalities is very diversified and that the reform of local self-government is completed, unless it is about establishing a new municipality by merging two or more into a new one. In view of the fact that a proposal for a referendum on the establishment of the municipality of Golnik has already been put forward in the new municipality of Kranj and you have already given an opinion on the referendum, I ask you, Sir, here: Do you still believe that the network of Slovenian municipalities is very diversified and that the reform of local self-government has been completed? Second of all, I'd like to ask you: What additional measures will you propose to the Government to increase the interest of these small congregations in the direction of uniting congregations into one larger one? We know that, in fact, small congregations are simply unable to carry out all the tasks, since the congregations have high costs. So in this place, I want answers from you. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u289	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you very much and thank you very much and thank you to all honourable Members as well. The question, I'd say, is very relevant. In other words, I would point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was only the proposer of the establishment of municipalities in 1994 when the local government reformed, never again, so that the proposals for the establishment of municipalities were essentially created in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I would say that he may have a question of several addressees, but I would still explain what you have highlighted, i.e. his position on the territorial component of Slovenian local government. With regard to the first question of whether this network of municipalities is very diversified and the reform is complete. The government in the coalition contract has no commitments relating to the territorial reorganisation of Slovenian municipalities, so as a minister responsible for local self-government, I have also not proposed any measures or changes. I estimate, however, that the territorial reform of Slovenia's local self-government has been completed. Our primary task so far has been to allow the congregations, which are already established, to be called those who are now here and now, to function normally. On the one hand, we achieved this by raising the average, first immediately after the government's appearance, and then twice at the time of budgeting, by raising the average for the municipality by €60 in this mandate, thus providing the municipalities with adequate financial conditions for operating under tighter covid and further development conditions. On the other hand, at the end of last year, by adopting a law on financial reorganisation, i.e. the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities, we reduced the costs to the municipalities by about 70 million, 73 million euros per year. However, it is a fact that Slovenia is a very diverse country, so it is simply not possible to establish municipalities with a similar territory and population; it is not possible to prevent rivers, alpine valleys or mountain chains. Thus, legislation, taking into account this wide-ranging diversity of Slovenian municipalities, allows for several different ways of inter-ethnic cooperation with a view to rationalising and improving the quality of operation of municipalities. On the one hand, the municipalities cooperate closely with the establishment of joint public institutions and public enterprises, and regional projects are carried out through the development councils. On the other hand, we also encourage them to cooperate with the Joint Municipal Administrations by specifically co-financing their operations. This year alone, €6 million is earmarked for these community administrations in various areas. With regard to additional measures; the legislation in force is exactly what I have just mentioned – incentive measures that would be an important financial incentive for municipalities or municipalities that would be made up of smaller ones. The Law on the financing of municipalities with a system of adequate spending gives municipalities with more than one population the natural advantage because weight in the calculation of the appropriate consumption, i.e. the population represents 61% of the total. Another financial incentive, however, is the provision of Article 27 of this Law, which provides for additional resources from the State budget for the following three years after the merger to the municipality, from two or more smaller ones. By bringing more than the congregations together, a higher percentage of these additional funds is to the new congregation. Finally, I would like to point out that the process of establishing a possible new congregation, which is better known to Members and Members than I can personally think of, first takes place in the National Assembly what we have seen now, by introducing a proposal for a decision on the implementation of a referendum in a specific area where this new congregation is to be created. Then the National Assembly gets the opinion of the Government and the municipalities and the Government is defined, as you have rightly warned yourself, solely on the fulfilment of the conditions for the establishment of the congregation, that is, as stipulated by the law. If these conditions for setting up are met, then the National Assembly shall hold a consultative referendum to establish the will of the people in the area. And if he finds that the will is in favour of such establishment, he shall adopt the law establishing it, determine the name of the territory and the seat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Are we still going? Here you go. You have the floor. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u291	Thank you very much for your answer. I apologize, Madam Vice President, for stepping into the floor. Thank you for this part of the answer. It is said that your opinion that the network of Slovenian municipalities is very diversified and that the reform of local self-government is completed still holds, which I am pleased at the end. For every congregation that is to be reestablished will need a great deal of expenditure in addition to income. Of course, he also needs his own space, as well as his equipment, computer hardware, and in the end, there are those people who are extremely important, which in fact costs significantly more than the congregation can expect. Similarly, new municipalities may have difficulty in obtaining funds for investment. However, I believe that some congregations could develop for this reason, but that will show time. In recent times, however, more and more of these tasks have emerged for the operation of the Joint Municipal Administration, since it is only in this way that municipalities can provide or be more effective in carrying out the tasks. From this point of view, it is therefore extremely important to reduce the costs for each municipality. That's why I might be interested in this place: In the future, are you going to add something else to the task of the municipal administration, such as information, where tasks could be combined? And yes, it was absolutely welcome what we did in this national assembly to lower the costs for the congregations. This was already the initiative of the former Minister, which we have then realised in this government. I am pleased that the municipalities have more investment potential for implementation and this is welcome. And I sincerely hope that we will also increase the overall performance of the tasks of the municipal administration in this part of the task. I'm asking you here for an additional answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u293	Thank you. In fact, I agree with everything you've said. And not only that, we have prepared a proposal to amend the Law on the Financing of the Communities. I think that on the way to the Government, where we would introduce an additional task for the Joint Municipal Administrations, there is information technology or services in the field of information technology, which has a multi-layer positive effect. One thing is that small congregations may not make full use of, say, the frame, but at the same time it is more difficult to obtain for just one congregation. This is how we are going towards allowing additional co-financing to encourage not only digital transformation for the municipalities, but also to make it easier for them to get this staff and, above all, knowledge and consequences for citizens and citizens. This is what you mentioned about the investment potential of municipalities. What's public, since I've been in this position, is that on the local level it's not so important a policy on the left, on the right or somewhere in between, but it's only important that it's done. So the neighbor just asked if the road was built or if the plumbing was built. So we went along with this guide, unloaded the congregations so administratively, perhaps even more important than financially. I agree that this project of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities was a project of at least two ministers, if not more. However, this is the first law, and we have some discussions on other laws on the table, and the acts that imposed on the congregations were not repaid. As it is said, every euro in the municipalities looks at itself three times, turns around and has some multiplier effect, for which we are already working the entire mandate. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Thank you. Ambassador Boris Doblekar will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u295	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleague and colleague! I am prepared or I have already put in advance, of course, I expect answers today, to the Minister of Education on a subject for which I have received several requests to ask, and in the end I am personally interested in certain matters. But the answers to these things are very, very difficult to get anywhere at all. I want to know: What about the involvement of university professors, particularly with regard to cooperation with the media or their involvement in commenting on certain matters, expressing their opinion? Above all, I also want to know: Do media houses invite professors to various confrontations, or for the purpose of commenting on certain matters directly from the university, or do they choose their own professors? Under what key do colleges decide to select their employees for public money to make public statements and comment? I also want to know: Does the faculty or employer of these professors take responsibility for the spoken words of these professors or faculty employees, which are spoken mainly on public media, whether on television or on radio, and, of course, on certain printed media? And hereafter: Do colleges or their employees receive any fees for such participation? Are they also paid for this, or are they rewarded in any way? And if they are: What heights? I know that a while ago, people wanted information from the public service of RTV, how much money is earmarked for these fees, for guest commentators. However, RTV has not submitted this reply so far. I'll ask my own question next time to RTV, I hope to get it. In short, I'd like to answer these questions because I'm very interested. Because many times these professors are very narrowly politically profiled and come to serve mainly on one side and in particular advocate only one side.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member Doblekar, I will answer you as much as I can. Unfortunately, I am afraid that I will not be in ministerial jurisdiction, but I will point out a few fundamental principles in spite of that, perhaps even in one part, in terms of my basic profession as a university professor and experience. What you are opening up to in your parliamentary question I understand as opening up a debate on fundamental constitutional rights. One is the right to freedom of speech and expression and the other is, of course, a constitutional right linked to the autonomy of the university. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport does not have any powers directly to your question or substantiation, in the light of all the constitutional rights mentioned above, in fact, it must not have any interference or some work obligation, because this would constitute an intervention in, as is said, the professional autonomy of university professors and at the same time their free expression of opinion. It's really something. It is true, however, that when university professors perform as scientists, academics, researchers, it is expected, of course, that in their ethics and culture, these aspects of information, assessments and also facts are highlighted, and that they do not necessarily reflect what they, as individuals, think through this possibility, the opportunity to express their personal opinion. This is often a matter of separation. In fact, research work, academic work is based on a very, say, rigorous methodological basis and rules. These are based on a simple rule that it is necessary to obtain specific objective data, sources of information, facts and to present them for their research work, and on this and also on one theoretical framework then to interpret, explain and approach from the perspective of one academic culture whose mission is to provide some constructive solutions, proposals, measures that are precisely on these facts, based on these data. This, of course, does not mean expressing your personal political opinion or preferences. In this second case, of course, an individual, who is also a university professor, can advertise – and is also – but it is necessary to distinguish between these two functions. If an opinion is taken on the basis of this first one, a methodological-exploratory-academic approach shall then give its opinion as an expert as a scientist. In this second case, which is also legitimate and constitutional, of course, it gives its own personal political opinion and it is necessary to distinguish here. Yes, when a person listens, he monitors the way individuals react in the media, sometimes he can actually get the feeling that these roles are somehow not quite clear. But then this is already a matter for the public and, as it were, even one culture for each individual, how and what. This second question of how someone pays, how they invite and so on, again concerns the purely editorial policies of each individual media, where the ministry does not have and must not have any intervention role.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Comrade Doblekar, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I did not care so much now whether the professors could go or not. I was specifically interested in whether they were going on their own behalf or going on behalf of the university. After all, they are public workers paid for public money. That's what I was wondering. If we look at any show, whatever you see, you hear these professors, when maybe somewhere at the beginning, as you said, from their knowledge, experience, education, and so on say certain things, they comment, and then, of course, they continue mainly with politics. I see it, but it doesn't matter now which medium it is. If we just took one last look at the Tarsh show, for example. There they were, I think, at least two such professors when there was hardly anything about any profession, but just some naked policy. It seems to me like an abuse of the professor's profession for political purposes. Even when we hear some news, say on Radio Fireplace at three, when you hear the normal news somewhere – since I am alone in this every day – you hear what you have seen from the comment of certain professors, then at half past four you listen to RTV Slovenia, it is a completely different story. You hear completely distorted information. First of all, I want to know: Are these professors then also responsible as independent persons, or is this also the responsibility of the faculty, given that public workers are paid with public money? Of course, it still grieves me very much that it is not known: Do they also get a fee or not, or do they get it or colleges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Actually, what you're asking is in place. This is a question that appears to every viewer on a natural course. Because you become at some point when situations like this happen, as you now mention them, as a listener you become confused about who you're listening to; or you're listening to someone in the role of a researcher scientist operating on facts, or you're listening to the legitimacy of someone who's just passing on his personal opinion, and somehow he's even living in conflict with himself, who he is now, who he represents. But this is a thing that actually the viewer, which the public somehow address in themselves, clears up, just as such an individual must with himself, with his own integrity. Here's my basic answer to your question. We won't be able to use some systems of regulation, control. Nor is it right, because, as we say, we have here constitutional categories, but in fact here an individual has to do with himself, with his own integrity, if you want, with his own relationship to himself and in the final stage also to his own profession. Believe me, recognized professors who have studied much abroad in an international environment, which also work much and intensively there, will not have such a relationship with themselves. It is so often very important, perhaps even when a person is a little in doubt about going and getting a little familiar, a little look at how the references are actually research, scientific, and, in particular, where there is a dilemma, in what kind of doubt. However, as far as the so-called policies themselves or the rules they have within the university or individual colleges are concerned, whether and how their employees must receive or not obtain a media agreement, this is in fact the issue of their internal arrangements. From the point of view of my own experience, when I was in this function, I generally didn't need to ask anyone, I didn't need any consent, it was a matter of my own integrity, and I never received any payment in my life for any professional appearance in the media. But I don't know if it keeps it everywhere, but this, as it were said, is a question either for colleges or for the media and their editorial policies.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Ambassador Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I have a question for you, given that, in February 2021, Furs published the Brochure on Income from Activities, which introduces the obligation to take into account subsidised social security contributions to income. The new obligation has caused a lot of uncertainty among self-employed, cultural creators as well as between entrepreneurs, as it means taxation of subsidised contributions to the social security of self-employed people in culture, i.e. contributions paid by the State on the basis of the right acquired under the status of self-employed in culture. It would mean that self-employed people in culture, with the right to cover social security contributions from the budget, have to pay an additional EUR 200 tax on this contribution. This Furs move is not in accordance with the Income Act, which clearly provides in the ninth sentence of Article 20 that the subsidised contributions, if paid by the State or the local community, are exempt from income. Furs then changed the method following the transmission of cultural NGOs for the tax year 2020 by which exempt social security contributions may be exempt from tax on self-employed persons for 2020. However, they still have to be included in the accounts, but they can be entered under point 2.6; it is said that the exemption from revenue due to previously unrecognized expenditure is exempt from the tax. That's why I want to know: Where does Furs ask for subsidised income contributions? Why did Furs change the guidelines for dealing with contributions? These include subsidised contributions paid to cultural people by the Ministry of Culture. Due to protests from self-employed cultural workers, Furs changed its position for the fiscal year 2020, whereby exempt social security contributions may be excluded from the tax account for 2020 and therefore Furs withdrew the instruction but only for 2020. This year and beyond, new guidelines are to be followed. I want to know: What about this, and what are the new directions? Since the solution was only temporary, I ask: How will you make this permanent and ensure in the future in a way that will not worsen the already poor situation of self-employed culturers? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u305	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. As you have already mentioned, the Financial Administration has changed its opinion and now the contributions are not included in the tax base, which means that the matter – and I think I have already responded once – is settled and I see no reason and I have no indication that the Financial Administration will change this opinion in any way. It is true that a number of contributions are paid by the country to cultural people, the country paying contributions to around 2 000 400 cultural people, amounting to EUR 11 million per year. These contributions will now not go to the tax base and will not be taxed. Here, of course, I must point out that those persons who receive paid contributions, as I said, are actually paid by the money paid to the culturers by the other taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u307	Thank you. We were just talking about 2020. I think it is clear that there is a need to systematically ensure that subsidised contributions are excluded from taxation. Administrative procedures for self-employed people in culture must not be regulated in a way that harms self-employed cultural people. That's why I'm really curious: How will you permanently eliminate such illegal taxation? As a rule, rules must be adopted before the end of the tax year: Can you ensure that standardised people will not be obliged to pay an additional tax on subsidised social security contributions, i.e. from income they have not received at all? And here I should warn you that censorship is also at risk, because self-employed people in culture have a price that cannot be exceeded, and they can lose the full payment of contributions if this is taken into account. That's why I want to know: Can you ensure that standardised workers are treated equally with self-employed persons who determine the tax base on the basis of actual costs and who can exempt subsidised social security contributions in the form from taxation? Will you see to it that subsidised social security contributions become visible in the total revenue, as they remain hidden in the current regime? These changes are urgent, but they are a matter of yours, so I really want to know if you're going to fix this, and that's a lot of concern and fear for the self-employed in culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u309	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for complementing the question. You yourself have already mentioned Article 9, paragraph 20, of the Income Act, which provides for the exemption of social security contributions paid for them by Slovenia or the self-government local community. So the arrangement is now in order, so it's settled. Once again, I have no indication that anything would have been changed and that Furs would have changed it in any way, which means that the 2,000 400 cultural workers paid by the State with the money of the other taxpayers will not be taxed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-18-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I'm concluding. That's what it says, ministers and ministers, thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 20 October 2021, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. I am also adjourning the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I wish everyone good night and a safe trip home.
