ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 77th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that Marjan Drofenik, Member of the National Assembly, died in 2004-2008. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Branislav Rajić, Primož Siter from 2.30 p.m., Alexander Reberšek to 15.30 p.m. and mag. Dušan Verbich by 4:00. I invited Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša and Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 2nd item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to the two agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 77th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday, 9 June 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. I take it that the agenda of the 77th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Proposal by the candidate for the Minister of Justice. On the basis of Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229 and 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President Janez Ivan Janša proposed that Marjan Dikaucič be appointed Minister of Justice. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government or to the President of the Government. [[He's not here.]] In accordance with Rule 233 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself at a meeting of the Committee on Justice on 10 June 2021 and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. You have received the report and the opinion of the Committee. It follows that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. The report of the Justice Committee will be presented by President Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The candidate for Minister Marjan Dikaucič presented himself to the Committee on Justice as a competent working body in the field of justice on 10 June 2021 and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. In his opening presentation, he said that he was aware that his mandate would last for a maximum of one year, with the work programme of the Ministry of Justice being largely established, in particular by the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union and the planned or already initiated projects under the Coalition Treaty. In his work, he will act responsibly, realizing that the rule of law is crucial to justice, which should put man and the community at the centre of it. As key priorities of his ministry, he also highlighted the protection of human and child rights, the ethical use of artificial intelligence and awareness of the importance of preventing hate speech, particularly on the Internet. I will continue with the investment projects initiated and the digitisation of the judiciary. I will also pay attention to the necessary reorganisation of the work of the courts, the excessive duration of procedures in the area of money laundering and economic crime, the improvement of prosecutions and the recast of insolvency legislation. The Minister's candidate stressed that he would not comment on the issue related to the procedure for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors from the Republic of Slovenia until its conclusion due to the legal remedies already announced. The role of the Ministry of Justice shall be understood primarily as an arbitrator to ensure a balanced dialogue between the various interests. By providing cases of normative material and other conditions for the work of all judicial stakeholders, it will contribute to its even more efficient and quality work and thus the functioning of the rule of law, greater confidence in justice and the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the world. In the debate, opposition Members and Members expressed their dissatisfaction with the presentation, which should not provide satisfactory information on the candidate, his experiences and qualifications for the ministerial position. They were interested in his career path so far, pointing out a number of companies where a candidate for a minister on the basis of publicly available information is acting as founder or director. their operation impresses business chaining or money laundering. [[Incomprehensible]] They considered that a number of warnings from the judiciary and other authorities about the unacceptable pressures of the current government on their functioning showed that the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia was at risk and therefore called on the candidate to determine both the legality of the current procedure for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors from the Republic of Slovenia and the procedures for appointing or advancing state prosecutors who had stopped this government. They cautioned that the remainder of the mandate was short for the preparation of quality reforms to insolvency and criminal procedural legislation. They were also interested in the candidate's opinion on the situation of judicial police officers, the protection of whistleblowers and the lack of experts in clinical psychology and any necessary changes in the area of confiscation of assets of illegal origin. Coalition Members and Members praised the presentation as comprehensive and credible, expressing the candidate's vision and priorities and setting clear objectives for the Ministry of Justice to continue its work. They pointed out last year's adopted recommendation by the Justice Committee that the Ministry of Justice should consult with key stakeholders on the functioning of the Constitutional Court and at the recommendation of the Government to allow the public publication of all judicial judgments of all levels. They were also interested in the drafting of a new proposal for a personal data protection law and its opinion on the liability of judges and state prosecutors who, in their work, violated human rights and on long-term judicial procedures which constituted a violation of the rights of trial within a reasonable time and consequently other procedural rights. The Minister's candidate, in agreement on the opinions expressed and the questions raised, said that he was currently employed by a lawyer, and he had not been involved in those companies for a long time, nor had he played a decisive role in them, so that he could not comment on their current business. At the time of his cooperation, however, they certainly did not carry out obvious irregularities. He also stressed the importance of the autonomy of the State Prosecutor's Office and would therefore endeavour to appoint new state prosecutors as soon as possible. He also stressed that, as Minister of Justice and as a member of the government, he would always act legally and transparently. He also responded to other questions raised as reflected in the report. After the presentation, the Committee on Justice adopted the opinion by 7 votes to 6 with 7 votes in favour with Marjan Dikaucič as the candidate for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Mr Kaloh will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u4	President, thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Members! Following the resignation of Mrs Liljana Kozlovic from the post of Minister of Justice at the end of May, Prime Minister Janez Janša sent a letter to the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič on 4 June 2021, proposing Mr Marjan Dikaucic as a candidate for the new Minister of Justice. Let us first point out that Mr Dikaucič, who also has a legal exam, is a legal expert in his specialised area of bankruptcy legislation, at the same time not on any of the legal networks, which is a very good signal, that he will act as a justice minister without pressure and that he will be able to devote himself unburdenedly to the judiciary. On 10 June 2021, the Minister's candidate presented himself to the Committee on Justice and responded to questions raised by members and members. At the beginning of his presentation, the candidate said that he was aware that his mandate would last for a maximum of one year and pointed out that the work programme of the Ministry of Justice had already been largely established by the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia of the Council of the European Union and that he would devote himself to the completion of the envisaged legal solutions, which were part of the coalition agreement. In his work, he will act responsibly, realizing that the rule of law is crucial to justice, which should put man and the community at the centre of it. At the same time, he pointed out that he would be particularly committed to the autonomy of the judiciary as Minister. With the preparation of the justice strategy by 2030, the candidate will strive for a justice system at the scale of a person to serve justice and people. This applies only to agreeing on the work of the courts and judges in particular. Of course, the public expects that, without exception, they will be judged by the laws and Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that they will be independent in their work and that their judgments will of course be of quality. As key priorities of its future ministry, the candidate also highlighted the protection of human and child rights, the ethical use of artificial intelligence and awareness of the importance of preventing hate speech both online and otherwise in real, public life. These forecasts are probably also highly favoured by the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, since, following the adoption of a policy of prosecution, one of the priorities of the Prosecutor's Office is precisely to address the crime of public incitement to hatred, violence or intolerance under Article 297 of the Penal Code. The Minister's candidate will also, of course, continue with the investment projects already started and the digitisation of the judiciary. Attention will also be paid to the necessary reorganisation of the work of the courts, to the administration of the judiciary, to the length of the procedures for money laundering and economic crime and to the improvement of the prosecution itself. [[Incomprehensible]] By providing appropriate normative, material and other conditions for the work of all judicial stakeholders, it will contribute to their even more efficient and quality work and thus the functioning of the rule of law towards greater confidence in justice and the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the world. The candidate expressed satisfaction that the Republic of Slovenia had decided to participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office but, at the same time, as regards the legality of the procedure for the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors from Slovenia, he had warned that it could not be determined as its position on the envisaged use of legal remedies could constitute an unacceptable prejudication of its outcome. It is also aware of the importance of the autonomy of the State Prosecutor's Office and will therefore endeavour to appoint new state prosecutors as soon as possible. He also mentioned an important novelty of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which states that a co-signatories of the Prosecutor's Office are needed to dismiss an indictment of a criminal offence of more than 3 years' imprisonment. With regard to the amendment of legislation in specific areas, the candidate highlighted the revision of insolvency legislation in order to improve the protection of honest entrepreneurs and, of course, to preserve healthy economic cores and thus jobs. He will also work towards the preparation of a new Criminal Procedure Act, and will also work towards the comparability of the position of judicial officers with the police themselves. He will also focus on amendments to the Law on the Council of Justice and will proceed to abolish the anomalies in disciplinary proceedings against judges. At the same time, it will endeavour to adopt appropriate legislation on the protection of whistleblowers in a timely manner and will also consider the need to amend the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. It will also endeavour to prepare as soon as possible a new supervisory law for the protection of personal data, with the general Regulation of the European Union on the protection of personal data being applied in our legal order, of course, directly. Regarding the functioning of the Constitutional Court, the candidate said that he would respect the opinions of experts needed in the legislative changes and that the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected and implemented. I also agree with the preliminary proposal of the Justice Committee that the Ministry of Justice organise an expert debate on the functioning of the Constitutional Court and report to the home committee on its findings. The publication of legal judgments is also important in his opinion to strengthen judicial practice and confidence in the judiciary. At the same time, he pointed out that the digitisation of the judiciary would also bring greater transparency to the work of the courts and would also allow the parties easier and faster access to the courts. This is exactly what the SDS Group estimates as one of the steps to ensure that, in practice, the justice system will also be a measure of a person or a citizen. Regarding the lack of experts in clinical psychology, he announced that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health would be working together to address this problem. In the SDS Group, we estimate that the presentation of the candidate was comprehensive, comprehensive, dignified and, above all, credible. At the presentation, Mr Dikaucič searched virtually all the relevant areas and sub-systems belonging to the judiciary, offered solutions, saying that there are untapped possibilities in the individual area under consideration. After all, the presentation of Marjan Dikaucič as a candidate for Minister has been assessed by most members of the Justice Committee as appropriate and, of course, the SDS Group will today unanimously support the candidate for Justice Minister, Mr Marjan Dikaucič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues! At this point, I should also welcome the representative of the Government, particularly the President of the Government, who would support the candidate for Minister, but unfortunately I cannot and difficultly. And it is difficult to discuss and, above all, decide on someone who was presented by the President of the Government only in three sentences, without CVs, references, experience, even at the meeting of the Justice Committee. It was an opportunity and a expectation that the President of the Government would present the candidate for the Minister of Justice today at this meeting where we are deciding on the candidate, and there is no respect for this House. Well, there will be no mistake, we have no problem with being a young candidate, no problem with the candidate's anonymity, no problem that the candidate is not a professor, no legal eminence, no title. The problem is that we know little or nothing about him or his work. The problem is that there is no suitable experience for this function. His views, we don't know the opinions, he's not the only one who presented them, not the Prime Minister. We did not find out where Mr Jobs was, what his role was in straw companies and some other eight. What are his views on the laws that have already been passed, the other acts of the government, the government that will be the minister? We expected him to have an opinion on what the government has accepted, but instead he has a very clear position in the justice system of his future boss, Prime Minister Janez Janša. And his view of justice is diametrically opposite to our view. We believe in the LMŠ in the rule of law, in the rule of law that provides for the limitation and control of power and respect for human rights and freedoms, and in society establish order, predictability and therefore in the LMŠ from the Minister of Justice, we would certainly expect a definitive and principled attitude towards issues of crucial importance for the justice system and society. In particular, we expect this from the members of the government, which its President, as a rule, is leading too often in contravention of the rule of law. And these uprights and clear positions with the candidate were not detected. And that's scary. It is frightening that all of this is acceptable for most in this National Assembly. That the MP and members of the government coalition and its supporters in this Chamber are not even ashamed that this government has lowered the level of expectations of political standards and culture so low that it does not go any lower. You don't even hide it anymore. The President of the Government is not coming to present his candidate. Report extremely little time for discussion. There's no life story. But he's a real candidate, and you're gonna give him a vote. You give a very bad message to people with this, and of course to Europe. At LMŠ, we find it unacceptable that someone who is such a stranger could become a minister. A minister who won't, because the actual minister, if you confirm him, is going to become Prime Minister today. And that's the look of the LMSH. In the parallel world, the world of the Prime Minister, the view is quite different. Marjan Dikaucič is actually an ideal candidate and will be an ideal minister if, of course, he is confirmed today. Judging from the performance at the recent hearing, it is ideally fused with the expectations of the President of the Government. He's got everything he wants first in the government from his subordinates. It also has everything that justice and the state don't deserve. And that's humility and accommodation. At the same time, he doesn't have what would bother the Prime Minister the most. He doesn't have an opinion. But the fact that the candidate had an opinion and a position on government decisions was never intended. Nothing is expected of him. That's why it's an ideal find. The government will be richer for a new straw minister. Let us look at just a few crumbs, almost the first man of the Justice Minister on the rule of law can only be defined and some very basic theories, which, according to the prudence of what is said, sounds like a floscule. The most pressing issue, i.e. the selection of two European Delegated Prosecutors and the Government's usurpation of proceedings, is not to be said. You know, if he wasn't competent, he'd be able to follow suit and stuff. The transfer is a conscious escape from the almost prime minister from taking on responsibility. Look, we're talking about the Minister of Justice. He agreed to be empty, humble, and agile. It'll be perfect. Because if we follow his logic, then at government meetings and otherwise he won't make any decisions. He's not gonna make any decisions. Any decision may be the subject of judicial proceedings. But, remember, he wants to be impartial. And as such, it is ideal, because it seems to be just a strawing man who will fill an empty ministerial seat in the straw government. Ideal for the Prime Minister of the Government, defeating the rule of law and the people. Judging by the developments on the Justice Committee, the candidate for Slovenia's participation in the European Public Prosecutor's Office does not want it at all, as does the President of the Government. The European Public Prosecutor's Office, as a supranational prosecutor's office, will investigate and prosecute fraud affecting the financial interests of the European Union, including the European funds that Slovenia will receive, we are talking about VAT-related fraud and money laundering, active and passive corruption, embezzlement, if I just list a few. And this is supposed to be the new minister of justice. In the opinion of the LMŠ, not only can it not be, but it cannot be. Since the candidate is not undeniable, on the contrary; because he is not a defender of legality, he is formerly a defender of borders; because he is not transparent, he is formerly a concealer of facts; because he does not promise to strengthen the rule of law, but his bankruptcy. If elected, the new Justice Minister will become Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u8	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Slovenia is a state of law, so provided for in Article 2 of the Constitution, and in the rule of law it is the right and not the will of one person or a handful of people. The rule of law is based on respect for human rights and not on their limitations. The rules enshrined in the Constitution, laws and other acts impose the restriction and control of the State authorities so that they do not take arbitrary decisions. One of the fundamental principles of the rule of law is also trust in legal and legal certainty. This means that decisions must be legal and stable. It seems that this government is far from caring for the rule of law, rules and procedures. In this mandate, it has proven this several times, from making fun of the decisions of the Constitutional Court to dealing with prosecutors through social networks, unlawfully repealing the procedure of two European Delegated Prosecutors, not naming prosecutors for political reasons, to adopting so-called co-vid measures without an appropriate legal basis and so on. I believe that it is difficult to be the Minister of Justice in this Government, who is scolding for the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia, which is the worst part of it, does not even hide it. However, it is the Minister of Justice who is and must be the first defender of law, regulations and the entire judiciary. At the hearing before the Committee on Justice, Mr Dikaucič, the Minister for Justice said that he understood the role of the Minister of Justice as an arbitrator who often had to seek a balance between proposals and interests, both between the judiciary and politics. We wonder how the candidate, as Minister of Justice, will ensure respect for the rule of law and protect the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia. How to prevent policy interference in the independent judiciary and independence, the autonomy of law enforcement authorities. We Social Democrats are confident that he will not be able to do this in this government. We do not believe that he will be able to curb the appetites of governments after political interference with independent bodies and their work. The candidate for Minister, Mr Dikaucič, this Government is undermining the foundations of a democratic and legal state and, with strong political decisions that are totally unfounded and have no professional basis, undermining the rule of law, as many have already pointed out, even international institutions have repeatedly announced. It is also true that the candidate for a minister is burdened by some straw companies, bankruptcys and persons who have even been prosecuted, which is a cause for concern. We do not believe that such a person, even as a result of possible past connections, could be able to act impartially and independently as a justice minister. We wonder what recast of bankruptcy legislation we can expect from the candidate in case he is confirmed as a minister. The Minister of Justice must be a trustworthy person, with a high degree of integrity, free from stains, especially those exposed to the Justice Committee. We don't think a person like that can become a minister of justice. On the other hand, the presentation of the candidate on the committee did not convince us. He did not give concrete answers to the questions that should be answered. For example, on the question of whether the annulment of the procedure for the appointment of two European Delegated Prosecutors in his opinion was lawful and justified; what are the professional reasons for repealing it? The appointment by the end of last year is also awaited by state prosecutors and prosecutors, which is, of course, unacceptable, especially since the prosecution has been pointing out human resources malnutrition for years. Given that the Prosecutors have undergone all the procedures to meet all the conditions, it is clear that the Prosecutors are not appointed for political reasons, but that the candidate has not identified such an important issue. If we look at last year's European Commission report on the state of the rule of law in Slovenia, we see a number of challenges in the judicial field. The European Commission notes on the report that Slovenia continues to face challenges mainly in the effective prosecution of economic and financial crime and in the area of money laundering with judicial backlogs. However, this government is delaying the appointment of prosecutors whose primary function is to prosecute these crimes and to raise government concerns about the encouraging proposal for amendments to the law on the organisation and work of the police. According to the assessment of the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia, these changes would affect the powers of prosecutors set out in the Criminal Procedure Act and narrow down the room of manoeuvre. How will you protect the prosecutors and the police, how will you prevent external political pressure on them, Mr. Candidate? Next. The burden of the Constitutional Court, which is already evident in the long time frame of the Constitutional Court's decision, however, the coalition Members, with the help of the Government, are investing and adopting laws that will further burden the Constitutional Court. How will the distinguished candidate for a minister ensure that the laws are prepared by this Government to be professional, impartial and objective, and ultimately restricting human rights. In other words, after World War II, the pandemic caused so much interference with human rights. Restricting our movement, our association, our personal freedom. However, this government went in the wrong and easy way, and in the end, it went public with the decision of the Constitutional Judges and pointed to their guilt. The Constitution provides that the acts and actions of the State authorities must be based on law or legal provision and must be in accordance with the Constitution. The distribution of political power and the division of power in this country is at the heart of parliamentary democracy. Independent free media, which have recently been under increasing pressure, also play an indispensable role. And because of all the above, Mr Dikaucič will not receive the support of the Social Democrats as Minister of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u10	Presidents, honourable Members, Members! There is little known about the candidate for Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucic. We have practically said this already today by all the representatives of the parties in this House. Without political experience and without major professional references, he responded to the invitation of the proposer. The presentation we have received is so general that it could be used for most candidates for any ministry. And since the candidate is a stranger, we must first ask ourselves which candidate the applicant was looking for, this is the Prime Minister of the Government. Certainly, the President of the Government did not want a candidate who was similar to the Minister of Justice of the past. At least not at the point where it expressed doubts and opposition to the decisions of the Government, which is led by John Janez Janša, a sovereign and uncontested decision. So he needs a candidate to listen to and obey the orders of the Prime Minister. Such ministers are already in the government, and they work so well as to do so. In order to do so, the candidate pointed out at the hearing before the Committee on Justice that he did not want to respond or comment on the Government's contested decisions when it repealed the call for the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors. In cold blood, he literally rejected calls to define himself in this regard and undoubtedly performed his first role, which he was entrusted with and entrusted with. And to take over the ministry in the Janša government a bad year before the end of your term under the assumption that the minority government does not fall apart prematurely, but you must have a very strong motive. Whether to be used for such transitional functions and when the SMC, with the help of the SDS, sought a new candidate for the justice minister, they were always probably also wondering where to find someone who would perform this function in a bad year, because it is enough to borrow the name, because decisions have already been made. However, it was probably someone who remembered that he knew someone who had already been the director of several companies that had been set up, if ever the need for their operation was not asked whether the candidate was right or wrong, and so we came to the candidate for the Minister of Justice, so formally for the Minister for the Chief of Formal Resort, who was supposed to take care of the best possible functioning of justice in the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, his professional path so far is primarily to search for shortcuts beyond legislation, a shortcut beyond the law of the candidate for the justice minister of the Republic of Slovenia. What am I talking about? Some information on his work has been leaked to the public and the online portal has thus uncensored the general public and has reported on the business experience of the candidate and candidate for the Justice Minister of RS (Republic of Slovenia) Dikaucič has been involved in at least two stories in which companies have landed in the hands of straw owners. Between 2012 and 2017, SCL was the director of the company, which has been issuing blank balance sheets at that time. It was officially a company with no assets, no capital and no income. When Dikaucič (candidate) was replaced by a Ukrainian citizen, the owner became a homeless person from Maribor. These are the references of the candidate for the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, SCL is without a bank account and has several thousand Euros of outstanding tax liabilities to the country whose minister would like to become Mr Dikaucič. This is obviously a case of a straw company run by a candidate for the Minister of Justice. What are straw companies? No one establishes a business without reason to straw companies or the most frequently launders money arising from the abuse of the position in the economy. [[Incomprehensible]] They also involve a number of tax evasions or frauds. Slam companies which are characterised by having no assets or carrying out any activity may be established for the purpose of fictitious transactions with which the tax base is reduced for other undertakings. The straw company issues an account for 100,000 euros to company X, which thereby reduces its tax base and avoids paying taxes and a straw company, then disappears or does not report income, as it actually returns it to company X, which is usually its real owner. In case of money laundering, the process is reversed. We do not know whether the straw company led by candidate Marjan Dikaucič acted this way, but we know why such companies are being set up. But this does not end the success of the candidate for Minister in the business field. I'm reciting data from the portal uncensored.si. Between 2013 and 2016, candidate Dikaucič also led the family company Transport Žižek from Črenšovtev. At the same time, its owners opened a new company that took over most of the business from the old. Shortly after Dikaucič was dismissed from his post as director, the company Transporti Žižek got in trouble and ended up in bankruptcy. More than 10 creditors reported about EUR 300,000 in claims among them, including Furs, who owed him more than EUR 200 000 for the transport of Žižek, and remained in debt to that country, whose minister wants to become Marjan Dikaucič. We cannot conclude from this that the candidate for a minister is the direct culprit for bankruptcy, but he has apparently prepared the appropriate conditions for the bankruptcy that I have been talking about. So far, we thought that the candidate for a minister was just an expert on bankruptcy procedures, but now we see that he is also an expert in pre-commencement procedures, so how to prepare an enterprise to go bankrupt before that, and to call a newly established company a customer. However, any bankruptcy means damage to creditors and, in most cases, all cases of workers and workers and goods and the Republic of Slovenia of the State, from which the activities of the State, of which we are the legislative body, are practically financed, but that is not all. It is clear from the publicly available data that last Monday the candidate for the Minister of Justice withdrew from the property of Legalius, which has a blocked account for more than a year, and is still listed as the director of Trius, who is also in financial trouble and where the closure of the account was not released until the end of May. Perhaps it is a coincidence, but certainly it is not a good reference for the candidate so far and, of course, his future work. Why, then, does John Janš want such a minister of justice who has experience in walking along the borders? As we have seen in this mandate, there are constant political pressure on the judiciary, and let it be state prosecutors, judges, lawyers, the Constitutional Court. Whatever decisions anyone makes or acts in a particular case, contrary to the expectations of the government, becomes the target of attacks. That's why this government needs someone who can take a stronger side, at least keep quiet if it doesn't actively help bring down the judicial institutions. However, the situation, which is a political and social crisis, and the economic crisis is yet to come, would require an autonomous, decisive minister of justice who can listen to all participants in a complex justice system, but does not need such a candidate. He needs an obedient, colourless, anonymous minister, without the necessary authority and clearly, without his own opinion. It is clear from what has been described so far that the candidate for the Minister of Justice will do business for the Government of Janez Janša. What kind of business? Head of the straw ministry. He's already had experience with straw companies. It is likely that only the straw minister will receive a ministerial salary, everything else will be prepared by others and thus by the end of his term of office. It is up to us to reject the Deputy Minister today, so we will vote against the proposed candidate in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u12	Dear President, distinguished candidate for Minister, esteemed assembly! At today's meeting of the National Assembly, we will vote on the candidate for Justice Minister, Marjan Dikaucic. At the hearing, the candidate presented his views on justice as well as the main priorities to which he will give the highest attention in the event of election to the Minister of Justice. As we have heard, due to the Presidency and the relatively short mandate of the Ministry of Justice, they will focus primarily on meeting the remaining remaining outstanding coalition commitments, drafting the legislation necessary for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's judgments and the continuation of other important projects of this mandate. During his ministry, the candidate will advocate the protection of human and child rights, the ethical and human friendly use of artificial intelligence, the fight against hate speech, the further digitisation of justice and many other ambitious targeted projects. At the same time, with a team of experts at the Ministry of Justice, he will devote his time to preparing a justice strategy by 2030, whose main objective is to make Slovenian justice even more in the service of the user, even more efficient and trustworthy. In the SMC, the presentation of the candidate is assessed as a comprehensive one, and the identified beaks of the topic as real, as they reflect clear objectives for the continuation of the ministry of justice. In SMC, we are proud of everything that the former Minister of Mags is. Lilliani Kozlovich was able to achieve in a good year of ministry, as there were significantly more goals than those set out in the coalition agreement. In the first year of the mandate of Minister Mag. Kozlovich's work at the Ministry of Justice was adapted to the situation that took place when the epidemic was declared. It was fundamentally digitised by the justice system that it became more accessible and consequently more user-friendly, that laws were adopted to ensure more rights for the most vulnerable groups, that measures were put in place to make justice more accessible, efficient and transparent, and that certain unnecessary bureaucratic procedures were put in place to bring more user-friendly services. Many laws such as the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the amendment of the Penal Code, the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, and many others testify to the permeability of the Ministry of Justice under the leadership of a minister of SMC. We expect nothing less from the candidate for Minister Marjan Dikaucic, whom we believe will be able to deal effectively with all the challenges facing him with the help of an experienced team. In his thorough presentation, candidate Dikaucič showed that the short term of the mandate does not affect his broad vision as a judicial system. It has also shown that it has sufficient experience to know the functioning of the system and, above all, to know the problems of the judiciary in practice. In Stanka, we place the development strategy at the heart of the modern centre, and we must put justice at the centre of the human and community. We believe in the justice system according to the measure of a man who serves righteousness and men, and we do not deviate from it. If I quote the candidate's words, I can say that, despite all the negative consequences of the current political environment, it is important that the responsibility of people who, instead of political struggle, have an important state-of-the-art cooperation in creating such a social environment in which they would like to live. Notwithstanding the fact that the candidate of the management of the ministry will take over the tense situation that will be marked primarily in the light of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union, we are confident in the SMC that this will lead him in the course of the ministry. At the same time, we believe that he will advocate for autonomous justice and the rule of law, and we are particularly convinced that he will do his work legally and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, a respected candidate for the Minister of Justice, who probably listens to us. In the second article, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that Slovenia is a rule of law. In the rule of law, power must operate on the basis of laws and in accordance with the Constitution and human rights and fundamental freedoms are at the forefront. In the SAB we represent the Minister of Justice as the first defender of the rule of law. Its role is so much more important at a time when the ruling policy deals vehemently with all other thinkers, and at a time when fundamental human rights and freedoms are too often understood only as an obstacle on the way to a specific goal. For the existence of a rule of law, it is not sufficient that the principle is written on paper, it must live in practice. For the rule of law, it is crucial that the highest positions be occupied by people with a high degree of integrity. This means that they will carry out their functions in accordance with the law and with certain moral principles. In particular, this must apply to the person who will lead the Ministry of Justice. Unfortunately, every day again we find worrying that representatives of the current government do not get through much of this. Therefore, we rightly wonder if anyone who wants to join such a government team can be any different. On the Committee on Justice, we rightly expected Members and Members to receive key information from the candidate on his references, knowledge, values and beliefs, which will be led by the Ministry. But we were disappointed. As a result of the joint justification for the proposal, I think that this was one of the shortest in the history of the National Assembly presented to us by the President of the Government, except for some basic data, we have learned virtually nothing. The application was not accompanied by a standard CV. The fact is that the candidate is a considerable stranger both politically and in the general public. The idea of whether he is suitable for a minister, before the hearing, could only be created on the basis of the data we read about in the media. And you, hand to heart, aren't exactly promising. Much has been written about various straw companies, and he himself admitted that his role was more strawed, about failed attempts to run for certain functions and boycotts, that's all we could learn about friendship with already very excited Roc Snow. From the read, extremely long presentation of the candidate at the hearing, we could first find that he can read fluently. We have also found that he has learned well about the ministry’s functioning or that the text has been well written. The text was liked, he spoke to the autonomy of justice, the independence of judges and the importance of prosecutors for the functioning of the rule of law. But we have learned little about his work so far, his competences, and the values and beliefs that could give us a broader picture of his credibility and ability as minister. We have not even found out exactly where the candidate is employed and or in the law firm where he works, works as a trainee, candidate or lawyer. We don't know any of this. However, we have found that the candidate does not have leadership experience and knowledge. So far, as far as we can tell, he has not led two or three people. This could present a major problem for him in directing a large team of Ministry staff, especially during active preparations for the presidency. The management and direction of a large team towards a predetermined objective is one of the key competences needed for the ministerial function. But most of all, in the SAB, we were disturbed by the fact that the candidate did not want to be defined on the current most pressing issue in the area of justice. As I know, it is the annulment of the call for the appointment of two Delegated Prosecutors and it is a matter for which his predecessor, Minister Kozlovich, had to resign. There was no doubt that the candidate would not be able to avoid this issue. The decision of the Government to annul the invitation to tender was also considered illegal by the majority of the legal profession, as it constitutes an arbitrary intervention in the autonomy and autonomy of the State Prosecutor's Office and an intervention in the principle of the division of power. This issue has been very much reflected both at home and in Europe and has an important impact on the sighting of our country in the European Union. And not just us, the opposition, but the whole of Slovenia probably wants and has the right to know how a future minister looks at the candidacy, how he understands the existing legislation and intends to do something about it. Regrettably, however, the candidate for a minister who, in the event of this appointment, would decide on this issue by tomorrow, did not have an opinion and did not wish to present it. He argued that he was not competent to have the case decided by the court and so on and that he could influence the functioning of the judicial branch by any definition. Where no proceedings have been initiated, the court has not even begun in this case. Even if, at least as far as I understand the case, his opinion certainly could not have affected the decision of the competent court. If, as a candidate for a minister, he thinks or believes otherwise, he is either overestimating himself or he does not understand our judicial system. Avoiding the determination of the legality of the annulment of the invitation to tender therefore sheds an extremely poor light on the candidate's legitimacy and credibility. In the SAB, we cannot shake off the feeling that the candidate for minister will be voted today and likely to be another puppet in the hands of the Prime Minister. In the last year and a half, we have made sure that ministers do not have much autonomy and that it does not really matter who sits in the ministerial chair. It is important that the Minister is obedient, obedient and acting in accordance with the clear agenda of the current government, which literally changes Slovenia in front of our eyes. However, those who muster up some courage and resist such a course of action will soon be out of office, either by their choice or by their boss’s choice. We expect a lot from the SAB candidate for the Minister of Justice, so we can't accept the crumbs that the candidate has spent on our hearing. In a state as we are today, when the foundations of the rule of law are well established, when the authoritarian tendencies of the rulings are increasingly evident, and when human rights and fundamental freedoms are threatened, we need someone at the head of the judiciary who will defend fundamental constitutional principles and prevent the undermining of the rule of law. As a social liberal party, in the SAB, we stress precisely the respect for human rights, the rule of law and the rule of law, which we cannot claim for Mr Kavčič after this presentation. It is rare that no convincing argument can be found in the proposed candidates for members of the Government, which would lead us to perhaps even confirm it, and in the current situation it is right for the candidate to support the ruling coalition. Our presentation on him and this ministerial team has only been confirmed by the candidate, so we cannot support such a candidate in the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will take the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u16	President, thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone! We have only been able to get to know the candidate for Minister Dikaucic in concrete terms at his presentation. Given that there is a fresh face in Slovenian politics, we have followed the presentation particularly closely. For we have not come to know his background, his competence, and his very way of working. For the presentation itself, it was a shadow of articles presented by Mr Dikaucič in an extremely negative light. It should be pointed out from the outset that the candidate is a person who does not have experience in the difficult field. Although we believe that an individual can learn a lot, managing such a complex resource can be a difficult test for an inexperienced person like Mr Dikaucič. It is not possible to overlook the fact that in the past the candidate has competed for the post of Director of Šmarje Health House at Jelšah, but as we could read just on the basis of lack of experience, he did not get the necessary consent. A similar story could be seen in the invitation to tender for the interior, where it was also not successful. Additional concern was raised by the record that the candidate is still involved in stories with straw companies, fresh articles and media records days ago, that more than 400 workers in construction have also been harmed by employment through straw companies for a good 2 million euros. The Justice Minister should prosecute such crime and not be linked in any way to it. In the presentation of the candidate, we have also waited for less position with regard to the Delegated Prosecutors. Slovenia must appoint two persons as soon as possible, as the European Commissioner for Justice has already asked us to do so. We are the only country that has not yet proposed its names. It is extremely important that, through the EPPO, Slovenia stands firm as soon as possible, operational action is already under way. Investigations, prosecutions and accusations of crimes detrimental to the financial interests of the Union are essential to prevent degradation and to combat fraud in the European Union and to abuse European funds. The candidate for minister must be aware that he will be placed in a very unenviable position with possible confirmation. We politicians are always under the care of the media and the general public. If there is a need for a sufficient number of votes, he will face several challenges that will test his will after his profession has been rewarded. Being a justice minister is not a simple job. An individual must be an arbitrator between different systems and repeatedly seek compromises where he does not want to seek them. The former Minister of Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich did her work properly and well, so I thank her for the work done here. The new minister will thus have a particularly difficult task of achieving the high-level objectives. In the Desus Group, we will take a final decision on the support or support of the candidate for Minister after the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u18	The Ministry of Justice is the first defender of the rule of law in Slovenia with independent judicial authorities. Therefore, it is not negligible what kind of person does this for the country and citizens an important function. Therefore, despite the fact that we do not have a member of the Committee on Justice and do not have the right to vote, we attended a meeting of the home labour body, because we sincerely wanted to know more about the proposed candidate. If anything, in almost an hour and a half of the long opening act by the candidate, we convinced ourselves that he could read. However, not only the positions and frameworks for acting on the role of the Minister of Justice, which have been drawn up by the professional services, but also all the content that these professional services normally prepare to assist the candidate, the general descriptions of the ministry's activities in specific areas and so on. It's pretty simple and it's a pattern, though. From the future boss, Mr Dikaucic, we have received a three-line explanation of the candidacy, which could be summed up in a few simple words and then put it this way: this is my proposal for a minister. We wonder whether in these few words the Prime Minister has seen all the rejection of the highest legislative body in Slovenia or whether there is really no other content on the candidate to justify his proposal. I don't know, it's hard to decide which of the two options we're more concerned about. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, we heard that the candidate has passed his judicial examination and that he has completed several bankruptcys of smaller businesses in his career. Although the colleagues of the minority parliamentary coalition and the political party of which he is a candidate represented him as a bankruptcy expert, his name was not found among the authors of the professional literature on the subject. However, the name of the candidate appears in connection with a number of companies operating in a very similar way to those straws intended for money laundering. Even more so, the candidate is on the board in front of the members, the camera and the general public, which he himself explained was acting as a straw director in these companies. So if we combine the references with the presentation before the Justice Committee, then we could say that the experience and references of the candidate end where they began: the judicial examination, the conduct of some minor bankruptcys, and the seeming directorship of imaginary companies. Mr Dikaucič has run for office as Director of the School of Health in Šmarje pri Jelša, and has not been confirmed by the councilors of Kozje and Rogatec for lack of experience as a suitable candidate. He also applied for a notary in Žalec, but was not successful because he did not meet the condition of one-year work experience in the justice system. Let me repeat this: candidate for notary, today the candidate for minister did not meet the condition of one year of working experience in the justice system. The result of this unsuccessful candidacy is also his unsuccessful action against the Ministry of Justice. Since his replies were so inconclusive at the meeting of the committee, I ask the candidate again in front of the entire assembly: does it not appear to you, as a lawyer with a judicial exam, that your candidacy leads you directly into a conflict of interest? Of course, the question is rhetorical, because we have not received any substantive answers at the Committee on Justice and we will not have them in the future. Not on the most topical and very important. On the one hand, the Minister's candidate praised his predecessor in the presentation, which may indicate the bad news of her client colleagues who helped him prepare the presentation and, on the other hand, sought all possible excuses so that he would not have to answer the most pressing current question or agree with his outgoing predecessor that the Ministry of Justice has made the call for the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors legally. I am aware of the personal embarrassments of the candidate and of the reasons for avoiding substantive answers in all important and very specific questions about the future functioning of the ministry. The fact is very simple. If a candidate wants to become a minister in the government of Janez Janša today, then he cannot and must not have his own substantive positions, no straw minister or director has them. The candidate who was repeatedly mentioned by the media as the most likely candidate has been publicly identified on some issues and that is why today we are deciding on Mr Dikaucic and not about Mr Starman. Therefore, if nothing else, we have received a very clear answer from Members and Members of Parliament in these last weeks who will actually lead the Ministry of Justice. The candidate therefore did not have enough experience to become a director of a smaller healthcare home, not meeting the conditions for a notary service, but apparently, he has very clearly met all the conditions required of the candidate for a justice minister by the future boss, both the chief, the head of the party running for office and the head of the government. It looks like politics is like football. Almost everyone thinks we know all about football, there's a huge selection couch, and they're sure they'd know better than those who do it professionally. After a substantive empty presentation on the Committee on Justice and the way in which the candidate is nominated, many Slovenian politicians can think exactly the same as the football couch selectors. There can be a minister in this government. Excuse me, not everyone, who can nod and who can suppress his own opinions if he has them. Such a presentation is certainly enough for a minority coalition in the National Assembly. For all those who want to be convinced of the content for which we vote, for us who want to believe that we are voting for a candidate who, with all its personal integrity, will perform this important function of the country in the interests of citizens and citizens, and that the rule of law will be its real priority, this presentation has been substantively empty and essential, essential. The future head of the candidate for the Minister of Justice has problems with mail, both by accepting shipments and by his own words, by playing the role of postman. I am afraid that the Prime Minister in Mr Dikaucic saw the right person for the role of the postman and that his justification for the application was also appropriate. If Mr Dikaucič overcomes this role in the future, he will surely face the same fate as his President and the candidate for the minister mentioned by the media before him. It is obvious, however, that the candidate will consciously accept similar roles one by one. As a straw director, he gave legitimacy to actual managers, as he just said, and as a straw minister he would do it for the Prime Minister of the Government. The Group of Non-Aligned Members, of course, will not support this candidate for the Minister of Justice because of all the above-mentioned candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Comrade Franz Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u20	Thank you. Look, president, I don't know if there's a new epidemic or what, because I have a pretty working parliamentary day here today, I'm running to a meeting here, there's a Member and a member of the coalition, one member of the treaty coalition, none of the government, I don't know, it's a farce farce, let's stop the meeting. This is my procedural proposal, because this is not a conclusion. I mean, it's, it's not a derogation from the National Assembly, it's something I won't say until the end of the sentence because it's too vulgar, but this vulgarity we're not going in serious opposition, this vulgarity goes to this government and this coalition, and we're going to protect the National Assembly. After all, we will bless this gentleman or not if I express myself in the human language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u21	Thank you very much, buddy Runcho. Although I am substantively in favour of what you have stated, I am particularly in favour of the business possibilities of forcing anyone to attend this meeting, I cannot, therefore I do not, and I agree with you that, given what subject we are discussing and deciding today, we deserve more attention. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a candidate for a minister. The word is from a colleague of Tina Hefferle's.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greeting to fellow members of the opposition and,, one, two, three, two, I apologize, two Members and a member of the coalition. [[Count]] [[…]] We were already surprised on the committee by the members of the Justice Committee, how we could get before us a proposal to appoint a new minister in three lines in the National Assembly. The Prime Minister did not take the time to attach to these three lines the CV of the selected candidate. But today he has not taken enough time to come before the National Assembly, which will or will not confirm his candidate, to explain his proposal before us, Members and Members. This seems to me extremely depraved, extremely disrespectful and ignorant, and that, respectable citizens and citizens, if you look at us, is a reflection of this coalition, this government that we have today. It is respect for us, or rather disrespect for us representatives of the people, and, finally, it is a reflection of disrespect for you, respectable citizens and citizens. So much for that. We have witnessed an extremely weak presentation of the candidate on the committee, if I am very kind to say that I do not use any other inappropriate terms. We could practically convince ourselves with our own eyes and ears that the selected candidate has no political experience, he has no special leadership skills, he did not want to tell us where he is currently employed or what kind of job he is doing. He doesn't tell me anything about the candidate. If he tells me on the board, I'm a lawyer. Whoever knows the structure and functioning of the lawyer's office knows that there can be a working secretary, a lawyer candidate, a lawyer, a lawyer, etc., and given that the candidate didn't want to tell us what he's actually doing right now in life, but he's always stressed that he's working in a lawyer's office, I went to Google and look at the lawyer's directory and his name isn't in there, so we know at least something, the minister's candidate is not a lawyer, but we don't know what he is doing or what kind of job he's doing right now. But it's okay. Now, as to the candidate, all the information I have acquired is from official available information, it is said, I Googled it, if I say so at home, and I have also found, inter alia, that, for example, it has in common with the President of the Government that he is very capable of delaying judicial proceedings, and that he shares with the President of the Government that they have essentially the same flaw in not raising judicial shipments, which apparently gives some plus points to this candidate, given that the President of the Government has proposed it. However, at the presentation or at the hearing, the candidate did not give any meaningful answers to our questions. All we heard was a nice word and, yes, as we've already heard today, and the candidate in the hearing, his own, proved something. Very good or like what standards he can read and can read obediently what others have prepared for him to read. That's what we found out at the hearing. In one of his performances, when he read this ready record, we were able to hear that the candidate was of the opinion that he was entering a regulated justice system. Yeah, really? And then I asked him what he was saying, given that he felt that he was coming into a regulated justice system, what did the candidate deny that the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Floriančič, was reminding European institutions of the deterioration of the rule of law in Slovenia. I asked him what he said about the fact that the President of the Supreme Court had pointed out that the rule of law in Slovenia had been hampered. Then I asked him what the candidate would say about the state prosecutors informing their colleagues in the Council of Europe about the pressure on them. In fact, the Council of Europe said that, through various direct and indirect pressures, prime ministers, they were involved and pressured to do their work. Then I asked him, in view of this view, that he was coming into a regulated justice system, which says that his future boss, the President of the Government, who is the institution of the executive branch, allows him to write to the Attorney-General, who we know is the first man in the organization of the prosecution in our country, where he is given very specific and direct instructions on how the prosecution should prosecute individual alleged perpetrators of crimes, how to deal with individual crimes, in short, in a letter where the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, reads to the Attorney-General in essence what criminal law is. I asked him what such an intervention by the executive branch meant in the autonomous and independent prosecution that should be in our country. In view of this, I asked him if he was aware of the topic covered by the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, but he did not give any answer in the meantime. I asked him if he knew Article 135 of the Constitution, which raises the prosecution to a constitutional category, and I did not get an answer here either. Last but not least, I have not been able to ask him this, but now I would not have this possibility, given that the judicial system has been regulated, we have been able to read recently, a few days ago, a joint statement signed by the chairpersons of the information officer, Mrs Mojca Prelesnik, from the Commission to Prevent Corruption, Mr Robert Šumi, from the Court of Auditors, Mr Tomaž Vesle, and the Ombudsman, Mr Peter Svetina, where they all write in one voice that there are recurring political pressures on their institutions. I'm just going to add here, given that this writing essentially covers some event from the last year, it is said, under this government coalition, these political pressures could greatly reduce the pressure of one and only ruling parties, SDS parties, of course, with the support of all other coalition partners, New Slovenia and SMC not least the SNS. So much for this point of view of the candidate for the Minister of Justice that it comes into some regulated system of justice. Far from it. In my opinion, justice in our country is currently under this government under the rule of the Prime Minister of a government which we now have very much under trial or justice as it had to be beaten under this government. Then, of course, at the hearing of the candidate, like the other opposition colleagues, I raised the question of two still unnamed European Delegated Prosecutors. I have raised a question regarding the repeal of this decision by which they were chosen and, of course, the legitimate procedure in which they were chosen, and the candidate has already read in his introductory part, but in reading the matinee, of course, given that it is announced that I am now reading the tapegram of the meeting of the committee, given that the use of the remedies has been announced both by the State Prosecutor's Council and by two candidates for this function, there is a great deal of restraint in this place, since, as a justice minister, I cannot influence or only give an impression of the impact on the course of the announced judicial procedure. That is why I will not comment on this issue today and not in the future until the announced use of the legal remedies has been concluded. With this, I think, Mr President, the candidate was a bit clumsy in avoiding all the issues on this subject. Indeed, the candidate does not know whether or not he was acting ignorant that if there were indeed some judicial proceedings that had not yet been brought, he would have to, as a representative, as the holder of the Ministry of Justice, which led to the election procedure, say that he was the main actor in this, would have to participate and take a position as a party in a judicial procedure if it came to him. I do not know whether the candidate has overlooked or not, but, for the first time, his opinion will be important, but it is important today, unless there is any court procedure, that his opinion will be even more important. On the other hand, I am surprised by this statement, which was obviously written to him, I do not believe he understands it very well, but it is already by this statement that I have now read or expressed my mistrust in our judicial system or my mistrust in judging judges. [[…]] Because if he now says any of his opinions or proceedings were legal or not legal, everything was carried out okay, the decision of the Government is legal or has a legal basis or not, it will affect the decision of the court which will decide on any judicial proceedings. This is unacceptable for me, for some candidate for the Minister of Justice, that it is already unacceptable for the Priori to condemn a judge who, in any case, will decide that he will be biased only because of some of his statements that he might make at some hearing. This is, I say, an extremely unfortunate attempt by the candidate to avoid these issues. But no matter what, we have also faced him with colleagues on this issue, including the opinions of all other eminent legal experts in our country, for example, Mr Drago Šket said about this situation of two European Delegated Prosecutors that the intervention of the government by which he overturned this procedure was an arbitrary intervention in the independence and independence of the State Prosecutor's Office. Then, say Saš Zagorc, this situation, which was recognised by the Government by this decision as legal hooliganism, then I do not know further, Mr Rajko Pirnat marked the decision of the Government for the abuse of power and constitutionally unacceptable. Further, Mr Matthew Avbelj, who we know for some reason is more right than the left, is very clear and I will now read it, because I believe and hope that the distinguished Mr candidate for Minister also listens to us. In short, Mr Avbelj said that neither the professional nor the lay public of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had offered exactly no reason, but it was convincing that, in accordance with the requirements of the rule of law, it could justify refusing to take notice of the two proposed candidates and consequently repealing the already implemented selection procedure. In short, your distinguished Mr. Candidate is not concerned with this subject, which raised so much dust in both legal and national law, he did not even want to make a statement about what and how he did not succeed so much courage. I'm afraid I don't even have enough knowledge to evaluate it. So that one candidate who does not hope can not comment on the most pressing legal issues that we currently have in our country, as regards both respect for European legislation and respect for our national legislation, I am speaking, of course, of course, of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which defines this procedure as a selection procedure for two Delegated Prosecutors as well as the regulation which obliges us to do so, it is a horror that you will be confirming such a candidate without a spine and without knowledge from your fellow Members of the Coalition and with supporters today. Now I asked the candidate very precisely and in detail about the state of the Slovenian State Prosecutor's Office, I presented the problem to him more precisely because I did not know if he was familiar with it or not, when it was more than half a year, or soon it would be just one year, when 14 prosecutors were still waiting for the appointment or promotion. Now that day, when we had a hearing before, we had the Justice Committee, where we had just heard about this topic, explaining to us how we would say frustrations and concerns to the Attorney General, Mr Sket, then the President of the State-Defense Council, and we could also hear a representative of the Council of State, where everyone in one voice warned that there was a great problem in interfering with the Government's autonomy and independence through these names, because the government or more precisely I suppose the President of the Government had certain prosecutors who would either deserve to make progress, they earned a promotion either in the name of the Attorney General, they simply didn't like it, and these proceedings have been stalling for more than half a year, while it was happening that in the government, which called the state prosecutors on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice. The distinguished Mr. candidate did not see any problem in this, he did not understand and saw that it was possible to intervene in the autonomy and independence of the State Prosecutor's Office, in short, he saw no problem in this, not after I had asked him several times and asked him to answer me and tell me his opinion on this, he simply began to say something in the sense that if there was any need for additional autonomy of the Prosecutor's Office, he would carry it out, no. It is said, Your Honor, that your candidate does not even understand or recognise autonomy to the State Prosecutor's Office under existing legislation. Once again, I refer to the State Prosecutor's Office Act, Article 3, which refers to the autonomy and autonomy of the State Prosecutor's Office and to Article 135 of the Constitution, which raises the State Prosecutor's Office to constitutional level, and your candidate simply does not recognise this moment, even more, not if it is because of him, if there is a need for autonomy, he will somehow, I don't know how, he will. Now, in his presentation, the candidate said very nicely, no, and talked about the rule of law, how important it is, about the rule of law, how important it is, we have heard that for the rule of law the rule of law is the key justice according to its own, no, and I am stressing here again today: for justice, it is crucial that we have a rule of law in the country. We do not currently have this because the situation that I just described by skipping the nominations of state prosecutors, by the fact that the government arbitrarily adopts certain decisions or in a single, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is certainly not the rule of law, and in our country, I point out once again, under this government, the legal foundations on which our country should stand and on which the candidate for the Minister of Justice enters the team and from him I have essentially sought some answers on the committee, which would at least give me the hope that, if not, the Minister would raise his voice when it comes to the rule of law when it comes to violating the rule of law, when the government violates the laws, not that, as a minister, where there is also a voting right in the collective body of the government, he will not vote that he will not raise the deadlines when it is necessary and when the Prime Minister is no doubt, but that he will hope, with all the answers or more than his own implementation, because we have not received the answers, no, he has shown exactly the opposite. This candidate of yours, the well-respected coalition, will be nothing more than a puppet and an executive of Mr. Janez Janša's politics. Now, I have also asked Mr. candidate about this, not since he himself explained that justice is the basis of the provision of the rule of law, I also asked him about his position, what he denies, let's say his future co-workers, no, Minister Hojs or his future boss, Mr. Janša, when some decision by the Constitutional Court does not agree, now I am talking about a decision last, not when the Constitutional Court has annulled a number of government decisions, what it denies is that his future colleagues respond to the essentially highest institution of justice in the country, it is said in a decision of the Constitutional Court in a way that let's say Mr. Hojs comments that he is going to the Constitutional Court's decision on a political decision or Mr. Janša, when he says that we have the highest institution of justice in Slovenia, that we have the most politicized Constitutional Court of Justice in the way of the Court of Justice in a way, that we say that Mr. In short, I confronted him with all of this, I asked him, in his opinion, his position, but unfortunately I did not get the answer, so his performance completely disappointed me, and I must admit that today I am fully convinced that this candidate, Mr Dikaucič, will not be a single Minister of Justice. I don't know if he'll even deserve the title of Minister of Justice, where it will be said, a puppet or executor of the decision of the Prime Minister of the Government. Last but not least, the borders were very surprised by what I said, what I faced with the distinguished candidate, and I was surprised that he, in his reading presentation, highlighted his one-year term, occupation, adoption, amendment and solventine legislation as a priority. I know what we are facing in our country in the field of justice when the rule of law dies on meals before our eyes, and this year his Minister of Insolvency Law will, Sir. Please, it's like making a fool of all of us, not just of all of us who point to this on the opposition's side, but you're making a fool out of every citizen. If I read another sentence to conclude, Mr. Honorable Candidate, who said in his reading presentation: “As a lawyer, of course, I am a legalist and respect the system and laws that you adopt in the National Assembly. For the rule of law is not an essential policy or a general public, only justice is essential for the rule of law.” I really, really want to know how the distinguished Mr. candidate in the role of minister will vote at the government's meetings when he faces the fact that this Government does not respect the Slovenian laws we adopt in this house that he spoke about. I would like to know how, as the justice minister of the Government, who voted in various such and different decisions as we have seen in that decision to annul the procedure of the Delegated Prosecutors where it is evident that there is no legal basis or legal basis in law or in certain European regulations, I am interested in how this honourable Mr. Candidate will act. But I am sure, and I am very sad, and I will repeat that your candidate, unfortunately, has proved in his presentation, for the first time, that he has no expertise, no knowledge, no experience. If you joke a little bit for real, I think it would be much better if you put on a full-year law student's ministerial post, full of enthusiasm, fresh knowledge and a little more ethical and moral principles than this candidate of yours. I'm telling you, we have discovered that he can read the text that he's being prepared for him, and we have discovered that he can nod when he needs to, and that he can raise his hand when he needs to, so I will certainly not raise any hands for him today, and he will press against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Natasha Sukic, get ready for the mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u24	Thank you, Chairman. Well, when you get something like this before you, in fact, you'll be amazed, and in fact, this candidacy is something, because in fact, there's nothing more to comment on, but as a Member of Parliament, of course, I have something to say and comment on, I can't afford a stunning silence. In short, look, this experience with this government coalition is a real adventure, I find. It surprises me from day to day. From day to day, I wonder if they can go any lower. But yeah, look, they can go. And today, I'm going to say this, we're not actually deciding on a candidate for the Minister of Justice today. In fact, we are deciding on the alter ego of our prime minister, someone who will be sounding for what our prime minister will imagine. So, we decide whether this speaker will last for one year and work on enough quality, I'll tell you if the decibels are going to kick ass and if the people will hear what our prime minister wants to hear. Because this, I'm sorry, but what we've got in front of us now, that's really nice of you to say, amazing. This already falls within the scope of illusionism, as our prime minister actually acts like some kind of devil. After all, he's not even here to introduce this brilliant candidate of his, because he's all present, respected and respected, he doesn't have to be here at all, and let's stop wondering why he's not, because he's all present. Now, a little more real. Obviously, we have a person who will run the Ministry of Justice, a person without experience, someone who is involved in stories with straw companies that this ministry has been chasing for years. But this person is involved in at least two stories with straw companies. And as President of the Commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities, this is of particular concern to me. We are just about to refer to the topic of exploitation of workers in such straw companies. There is someone in front of us without knowing that he has a special social reputation, but he certainly has no experience. In front of us is a person who has never occupied a single mention of a worthy function, not a single one. Even more, because of lack of experience, this person failed to become the director of the health care home in Šmarj pri Jelšah or notary in Žalec. Imagine! And that will be today, because I believe that a coalition that votes no matter who has no shame, which of course will press the key for it, will now become the so-called Minister of Justice or as I have said, that is the alter ego of Janez Janša or his speaker. This is a person who is connected to the bankruptcy lobby and will allow him to return to the first track of what is called the bankruptcy affair or this story will continue. This means that we will again be in danger of having a full system of close personal connections between the managers and the judges responsible for their supervision. And when these managers are assembled, of course, they get the richest bankruptcys and they share high rewards. And one of the most powerful lobbyists in Slovenia will now obviously have an impact on this ministry. As our already respected Minister of Rest, of course, has announced, one of the prime ministers will be to amend bankruptcy legislation, legislation for more efficient transparent and rapid procedures. Unbelievable. I'm telling you, this is all so fast and ever since we've had this government, we've already got three lines of the Minister's presentation. It's all very effective, it's debirocratic, as you call it. And so we will have, say, at the Ministry probably already located the influential bankruptcy office Sting, run by Zlatko Vila Hohnjec, a close confidant of our Zdravek Restivalska and see him, the supervisor of Term Olimia, who has been led for many years by exactly resting house. And at the time of the current government, Hohnjec became the supervisor of Istrabenz tourism, and earlier at the SID Bank. It's all well connected, it'll be parked there, it'll all work out like a grease ball, I tell you. Our Justice Minister will be someone who, as I said in the introduction, has made a special effort in the field of straw companies. In fact, the candidate was involved in at least two stories in which companies landed in the hands of straw owners. Between 2012 and 2017, SCL was the director of the company, which has been issuing blank balance sheets at that time. Officially, it was free of assets, capital and revenues. After Dikaucič left his post as director, he was replaced by a Ukrainian citizen, Olena Holiuk, and the owner became homeless from Maribor. Beautiful, isn't it? But it's not, but it's not good, it's film, it's really, it's illusionistic. I mean, this government really takes care of the special effects, I have to say. That's a lot to take in. Today, of course, this company is without a bank account and, you will not believe, it has tens of thousands of euros of outstanding tax liabilities. So a minister who has tens of thousands of tax liabilities on his company's first straw alone. Between 2013 and 2016, Dikaucič also enthusiastically led the family company Transport Žižek from Črenšovtev. And at the same time, his owners opened a new company that took down most of the business, and soon after, of course, he left the position of director, and the company Transportation Žižek got in trouble and, look at him, ended up in bankruptcy. A number of ten creditors reported about EUR 1.3 million in claims, including our FURS, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, to which the Transport of Žižek owes words and writes 200 000 euros. Well, you see what kind of minister we're gonna get right now. That's great, isn't it? Two hundred thousand euros under this heading of tax liabilities, outstanding, some tens of thousands of euros from the previous straw company. Well, if that was all, it wasn't, no. So our new up, ministerial up, is also a well-known speculator at auctions. More than one source has revealed to the media that auctions in bankruptcy and enforcement proceedings were held separately by both Dikaucič and his friend Tomaž Kokot, the new Director General of Post Slovenia. It's a wonderful ambush, I tell you, a representative. The documents show that at least one property purchased by this company at these auctions was transferred by Dikaucič for the poor EUR 50,000, you can imagine that he bought a thousand 755 square meters of a large residential plot over Strunjan. I mean, great, a man is capable, yeah, for certain jobs. Well, there's also a candidate for the Justice Minister, someone who's also a good acquaintance of Roko Snezic. Adviser to the Prime Minister Janez Janša in the field of taxation. So look, it all connects and it's gonna run like butter. Of course, we may wonder if the Justice Minister may be such a strawed person, a strawed man. While an expert for straw companies, but a man who has no opinion of his own, he is a typical opportunist who does not hope to express himself before Members and Members, nor in the case of European Delegated Prosecutors. This will be our minister, my people. That's not even his opinion. Of course not. And as far as this is concerned, see, that's how to confirm a person as a minister. My answer is absolutely no. Because we don't want a squirm, we don't want a squirm, we don't want a speculator with straw companies and auctions, we don't want a taxpayer who doesn't have his own opinion for nothing, and we don't want Janez Janš's speaker or another puppet in Janš's cabinet. Marionette, who will allow for discredit and further pressure on the judiciary, and we want to maintain in the international public at least a touch of the cosmetic impression of the rule of law, and if we want to, then we certainly don't want this minister, so no, no, no, not 100 times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, prepare Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nice greetings for me, too. In fact, I didn't even know how to start today's debate, and after we actually had witnessed a single vacuum at the hearing of a candidate for minister, we didn't hear any answer to the simplest questions about what the candidates' experience were, what the competences were and why it was actually suitable for a minister. In the end it seemed as if you would listen to one child to just sign up because it is good to be a good minister because it is good to get a diplomatic passport because it is good to have a police escort, it is actually possible to follow directly from his answers and a traveller after such answers to the simplest questions why you are a suitable candidate, what your work experience, where you have done such a journey is not good and, of course, it is not a good trip to the state of justice. If we look at the last survey on the perception of corruption in Slovenia, more than half of Slovenian citizens or residents of Slovenia said that last year they felt that the risk of corruption had increased and, of course, if we have such a minister who does not know why it is appropriate, what his experience is not good. We could paraphrase somehow that he was gathering work experience in a unknown place, in an unknown place, and that he would also, in an unknown way, minister and, of course, in the SAB in this way, we cannot agree and, of course, the confirmation of such a minister with such experiences is not, of course, in the spirit of the Constitution, so the interpretation of the Constitution, so that we appoint a candidate to a very responsible place or we confirm a candidate who does not really know why he is also a suitable traveller. In view of the fact that the candidate has also said that he respects the work of the previous minister and that he does not have any comments on his work, it is even more questionable or incomprehensible his position with regard to the Delegated Prosecutors. The former Minister of Justice is right, because of the Government's harsh intervention in the appointment of the Delegated Prosecutors, and this candidate for the Minister is being transferred and is even talking about some procedures that have not even begun. Let me say that, in this case, the Government could also accept the decision that it has become familiar with the appointment and disagrees with the candidates, but the Government does not agree with the nominations made by the Council to the Council and that is it. However, the government is now, in one grave way, interfering with the appointment of these prosecutors and not only that, the government is also blocking the appointment of prosecutors in Slovenia, exerting pressure in the police and, of course, the traveller, is not good, it is not good again, and in particular that someone who does not really know why he is running, but because it is cool, is, of course, that it can somehow be compared to a child who wants to lick and insists on that time to get it, is also not a good traveller, and I, in my personal name and on behalf of my parliamentary group, of course, regret that it is possible to do so and clearly say that, on the basis of everything that has happened, we will not support such a candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has Jani Möderndorfer, prepares Predrag Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u28	Yes, let us first experience a notice, three-speciesly who this candidate is – the name, surname, birth, anniversary and that he has obtained a judicial exam and has experience in law firms and businesses. Pika. That's all we know about this man. When we asked him at the hearing, he actually explained in a number of ways whether he remembered or didn't really know. Well, one was such a very sweet and "wealthy" statement when he said, "You know that being a director or an executive body is two different things." Moreover, he says there will be no mistake, “I will regret to explain to you that you probably know this even well and now you are pretending to be separated between the actual director and the actual manager.” That's what he said, look out, the candidate for the minister of justice. Do you know what he said on the Justice Committee? I was the straw director. That's what he said, out loud. It could end there without reading the papers, how the police actually set up a special job, a department, a listening device and stuff like that, yes, ma'am, we could knock on that candidate's door and ask him a little bit about where this master was, all these years, what he was doing, this gentleman. But no, that's not gonna happen. Not in this government. Well, then he says another sentence, because I went over the entire magnetogram again to read very carefully what the candidate master or the minister of justice master went to explain. In fact, he said he didn't know which company I was talking about when I asked him what it was for a company called Adria Group Consulting d.o.o. He said he doesn't know what it means for one company and then he says, "In relation to Adria, as you said, Adria Group, well, in relation to this society, I can tell you that Trius was established years ago because of a joint venture where they would be offered, I think there were some insurance services, legal services and other services." The Minister of Justice doesn't even know what he was doing because he was really a strawing director, does he? And it goes on, "Now precisely because of the time distance I cannot remember this, but in practice this did not come alive because it was intended to offer companies a comprehensive service." which, of course, he did not say. Then you had another company, he tells me, didn't he, Digitizer, I had it, didn't I, I didn't have it, he had it. That's the essential difference, he doesn't even know what he was saying. But as you say, he told me, quote. “ We are in this society, ” then he can say very accurately what he was doing in this society. [[…]] “We also cooperated in this society to establish an information center in Maribor, the largest information center, like a given room and we, I think, invested a 5% stake in ladies,” and so on and so on and so forth, of course this digitizer went to francs or bankruptcy. [[…]] [[…]] This company also went bankrupt, not just this company. Well, of course, I did count some businesses last time, but I thought and hoped quietly that the Minister of Justice would find out that he wasn't ripe for this place. I can tell you, years ago, he's in the government, when the government has had so much credibility that if the suspicion or shadow of an irregularity has fallen, the minister has resigned or has withdrawn from the candidacy. What happened to Mr. Cossack? I'll just give you one short case. Mr Kozinz was Minister of Justice. At the time, there were five or six percent of the outstanding loans, I don't know exactly, for housing loans. At the Ministry of Justice, the group appointed by the Minister of Justice, who gave loans to government officials, was housing loans to solve their housing problems and was half or 2% lower than the bank interest rates. He didn't do it. The commission did it. The minister resigned and walked away without any very large pumps or ceremonies, etc. No, in this case, we prove that the master of justice has been a straw director in larger companies for some time, even more, brought them to bankruptcy, and in the end he was even a bankruptcy manager. He was even a bankruptcy manager. And what happens? Nothing. Nothing happens. Even the Prime Minister doesn't come here to support him because he's ashamed of him. Whether he's late or not, look, don't talk to me about delays. He's got a police escort, and all his roads are opening up to get to the National Assembly in time. But if he can't plan it, then he's got a shitty job. In short, if the President of the Government, his candidate for the Minister of Justice, does not even come forward to support him, today you are mass Members out of the debate. I completely understand you, because I understand you, it is difficult to defend a candidate who is burdensome and difficult to have such a serious discussion. Let's move on. Look, the candidate didn't know what ADL Group Consulting was. Trius, where he was the director and previously the co-founder and owner of the same company, entered as the third-party owner of Adria Group and this year, from 6. 2. 2014 forward and at the time of the Director of Trius, Mr Dikaucič himself. Besides Trius, there are two other owners in the company since 6. 2. 2014 onwards, ADP Adria, d. o.o., and Personal Finance, d.o.o., were all third-party owners and not 5% owners, as he explained. The company Personal Finance purchased a share from the original co-owner of VTB, d.o.o. to understand how this concept actually ran. Well, we're gonna know what it's really important for. ADP Adria, d.o.o. founded by Andrej Tomšič, is in the company that was the second company of Personal Finance between 2007 and 2009, d.o.o. set up by the OFG Group Andrej Tomšič and was Director of Trius and was present in the ownership structure, I apologize, between 22. 1. 2016 and 5. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. During this period Dikaucič as the director of Trius the third co-owner of Adria Group Consulting, d.o.o., both ADT and Personal Finance were established with the help of Tomšič and are associated with one natural person and this is Petr Krvino. Now those of you who know the tax whirls will certainly be very interesting from here on out. It is more than clear from the above that Trius where Mr. Dikaucič first co-ownered with two companies set up by Mr. Tomšič, directly or indirectly after his company OFD group entered the ownership structure of Adria Group Consulting, d. o. o. It is also clear from this that Mr Dikaucič, as Director of Trius in 2015 at least after the second co-owner of Personal Finance, d.o.o., had direct contact with Tomšič, who is, of course, suspected to have been one of the important elements in ensuring the promotion of the tax wheel in which Mr Snezić also participated. Mr Snezić set up the same model and advised the establishment by the same model of several groups that had all the same goal, the tax wheel, tax evasion, which we know of of course what this means. And by doing so, of course, they allowed them to offer high loans later. Where did the loans come from, in which hands did the loans come from in this country? By this principle, of these people, of these owners, forgive me not to explain, because in the basement today we have an investigative committee dealing with this particular case. The Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Financial Administration, is called the Taxation, the Police, all actually work on similar “cases” each from their point of view and each with its clear purpose and purpose. No, we are talking today in the National Assembly about a candidate for the Minister of Justice, who is even involved in this tax workshop. Why am I telling you this? It is clear to me how the arithmetic of the coalition is flowing and I understand that it is a clear message. This minister must be appointed because in one year this government will not receive any ministers. And more importantly, it'll be quiet. It'll be quiet when you have to answer because he's used to it. Because as a straw director, he's done this for more or less a lifetime. We had a literal presentation on "hearing" how to do it. How this vehement, legal, without a shred of shame you simply pull out as necessary. That is why, of course, I am saying here that all those who vote today and support this candidate as Minister will not be able to say in a year or two that you did not know that. You won't be able to tell. Or that you had too little data, or God forbid that you even refer to the way things are going, we assume innocence. You know, in politics, people gave up because they suspected that they had been alcoholized because of their inability to drive. Except for individuals who, of course, don't. No, some people just stepped down. Let's say when our fellow Member, there was no discussion at all, he sat here, he got up and said, because it's unworthy, of course I'm going to step down. We'll see what it shows. What did it show later? But you know what showed that he didn't have too much alcohol in his blood. But he still gave up. And those are the facts. But we don't, we open the door wide to someone who's suspected of it, and that's a very risky suspicion, no, and dangerous, and that's that even, as he said, he'll be dealing with it, look at the fraction, with what he already has, with insolvency law. What is insolvent law talking about? Yes, exactly how to drive bankruptcy procedures and, finally, enable creditors to be paid as much as possible, very easily, very banalised, even said. But we now give him the right and the opportunity to open the door to certain criminal associations who will have a direct say in how this law will be written. Because how the law will be passed in this so-called democratic wheel of most coalitions is more or less clear. However, the fact that no one understands this insolvent legislation is clear. So, you know, it's simple, I say it, you know, if we had so much luck, we'd go lottery, no. I'll give you an example. On a firejoy, they have a lottery and, of course, they draw luck for the purpose of getting as much money as possible for good purposes, because firefighters are doing humanitarian and really good work. And there's one interesting thing about this lottery, no, every lucky guess, no. We're all happy that the kids, no, are running for those gifts, even though it's a simple purple that they don't actually have anything to use at the end of the day, but no one's sad because we know what the purpose was. You know, but this, this today, this isn't a lottery on a fire party. This today is a kind of legalized beginning of crime. And it is no wonder that today we have received information from Transparency International, where Slovenia is. These actions, these steps, they're getting us to exactly this position where we are. No one believes in anything anymore because they are all convinced that we are one ordinary corrupt society, simply looking for one goal: Mary as many as possible to me! That's all! So today I wouldn't be in the skin of those you press for, given that you really know what you're pushing and what you're deciding. Janez Janša will not decide on this matter, so don't make an excuse for it, it will be up to the Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u29	Thank you very much. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Procedurally, Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u30	Chairman, thank you very much. I have now listened carefully to the first five debaters, from Mrs Hefferle on. Look, you're making a lot of insults, a bunch of denunciations, and especially this ad person attacks. Look, minister master, what master minister do I not know where we are? We're in the National Assembly. Marionetta, he's going to make crime possible for society. My proposal is, next, at least to the next panellists, to maintain at least a minimum level to respect the candidate who will sit on a really hot chair, but, as a person, as a candidate, deserves some proper treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u31	Thank you very much. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I'll answer first, and then we'll move on. Look, now the reputation of the state and the people who represent the country is just one of the fundamentals. I think it is right that we concentrate on the content, not on the pompous preferences that you like to stick to people and so on in these discussions. In short, I propose that this is about working in a debate in the direction of one's dignity, one's respect. The vote will just be what it will be. It'll be an indicator anyway. But the debates, please direct. Grinding Brickler, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would just like to say that this is how Mrs Heferle, who has been exposed, is a colleague and Jani Möderndorfer, and I am also representatives of the Justice Committee, who have read the presentations and listened to the candidate. And all these matters, evaluations and questions stem from the presentation and the performance of the candidate. In short, we have a basis on which today's discussion is taking place here. This must be allowed to take place because it is a fact that today we are calling ourselves or discussing the future justice minister. And these doubts, if they are doubtful, must rightly be expressed in a microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Look, as far as the debate is concerned, we have a Rules of Procedure and we also have an ethical code. This code of ethics states that it is necessary to be respectful in its deliberations, and so on, so that I do not read individual provisions. And I only point out that you are respectful in these discussions. Nothing else. And I propose that we do not complicate things and that things be handled as they are in a normal parliamentary debate. You have a point. You can have a lot of things. You can argue. I suggest, however, that in the debates you are respectful, you are not offensive and so on. In short, let us be dignified and give a level of debate in the National Assembly to raise it to a higher level. Procedurally, Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u34	President, I would like to thank you for pointing out that we should stick not only to the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, but also to a code for which there was an extraordinary desire from some members of the Group to adopt it, a great need. Today it seems like it's some kind of dead letter on paper. I also support what you have pointed out in relation to the Rules of Procedure, that we stick to the agenda for the first time, and for the second time that we are not offensive. Dear colleagues and colleagues, that someone on the Justice Committee would like to let the candidate know that he is not well dressed and that he should buy a good dress means that we have gone not only to the bottom, but to the bottom. This is not right for the candidate himself, not for all citizens and citizens, and not for the last time for us. I think we should start to realize that these debates do not belong in this house, and therefore thank you, President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u35	Please, please. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u36	and my procedural proposal is that you continue to warn when it comes to violating the ethical code and the Rules of Procedure. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I suggest that you do not spread the debate on procedural proposals and replicas, you have the opportunity, follow the rules and I suggest that we proceed with the debate. A colleague of Predrag Baković has the floor, and she will receive the word of Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u38	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, my predecessors have already said everything that's happened on the board, so I won't lose words about it on my own. However, I would like to highlight another aspect that we may not have illuminated or thought about. And this aspect somehow troubles the appointment of any minister or minister of justice in this government. What's this all about? Now, if a minister or a minister of any government resigns because of disagreement with the government's action or measures, in this case it is a matter of repeating the selection procedure for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors, any new candidate who tries to step into this place under some suspicion of implausibility or bias, particularly if this, because of what, or what, Minister Kozlovich has challenged, has also happened and has. And in this case, of course, this is happening. And it is not that anyone would replace the predecessor because she has resigned for some less important reasons, which in fact do not concern the existence of a rule of law, but it is a principled withdrawal of the predecessor, because the government has directly intervened in the independence and autonomy of the prosecution. And if we remember correctly, then, of course, the government did not first get acquainted with the elected prosecutors, then the conditions of English language knowledge were changed with a view to establishing a formal proposal or formal condition for a repeat procedure, and since this was not going through, then the appointment procedure was simply cancelled, to which the Minister of Justice resigned. Your Honor, there is a new candidate for minister entering this swamp of doubt. Any one of them. Now, at this point, this is Mr. Dikauccich. With such an arrival, the shadow automatically falls doubtful of any candidate to respect the constitutional order, to act on his conscience and to act with all his strength for the welfare of Slovenia as sworn by all ministers. And, of course, there was also a SMC party in an awkward situation. The minister, who is in the SMC quota, resigned because of disagreement with the government's decision, and here the SMC party should become attentive, but somehow a little silently accepted this resignation and proposed a new candidate. And where's the point? If his predecessor resigned because she respected the constitutional order and acted on her conscience, each next candidate is, in fact, in conflict with the oath given by the Minister at the time of appointment, unless he has a different conscience. So, if she's joining the same government team that's just interfering with this autonomy of the D.A.'s office. And here I think that's the point that somehow points to the shadow of any candidate's doubts. Because of the past, because of the Minister's resignation, she resigned because she did not agree with the government's decision and so on. And of course, the result on the board is seven for, six against, a bad trip to this candidate. However, this is also illustrated by the fact that no one today has presented or additionally explained the candidate's application for minister. Neither the Prime Minister nor anyone else. And look, that can say something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič gets the word, and Rudy Bear gets it for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. First of all, I would like to regret the decision of the former Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovich decided to take such a drastic step and step down. Nevertheless, somehow she has shown that she can say her impossible, but also her powerlessness in the context of cooperation in the collective body, which the Government certainly is, which, of course, also has its boss, is the President of the Government and somehow my regret goes in the direction that the Minister was obviously not knowing enough in any way or in the professional sense that I think she was qualified enough to have some intergovernmental coordination, because at the end of some uncoordinated decision they cannot get confirmation from the collective body. Perhaps in this light, when we proposed a new candidate for the justice minister, who is the bankruptcy manager then all eyes were against the SMC or the electoral program and somehow showed with his finger that the reform of bankruptcy legislation is somehow not in our programme, but I would like to warn you that our programme has also been detected, identified by the executives as some very important stakeholders in the justice system, who also need to increase their effectiveness, even more. On our proposal, this commitment to reforming insolvency legislation was also entered into the coalition contract at the beginning of last year, and I think you have certainly read and convinced yourself. We have already seen that Covid’s situation or post Covid’s situation could lead to a more acute economic situation, but potentially some economic crisis that will expose the problem of business survival, despite the fact that there have been, then, counter-crisis measures to ensure that companies have received a lot of state aid for survival in Lockdown, but the fact that all companies will not survive and that it is also necessary to increase efficiency in bankruptcy procedures is therefore absolutely necessary and a candidate is certainly the right choice in this respect, because he knows the system, the situation and the first-hand problem, in essence, from practice. Perhaps we can say something about the state of justice today. It is true that justice has constitutional independence as one of the three independent branches of government and is a fundamental building block of the rule of law, but the justice system is not untouchable. With this, I would like to point out that it is far from perfect, that it needs more efficiency, improvements and that it is, in fact, unacceptable that somehow the main stakeholders are now going to name the judges and the prosecutors are going to be pre-emptively under some pretense of this independence to defend themselves in any change just to remain some status quo. Improvements are possible and are also necessary, for example, for better organisation, modernisation, digitisation for a greater level of professionalism, but, as everyone has said, strives for the status quo, because this can be the easiest way to cover a certain measure of incapacity of these stakeholders. How do we see that? In practice, we taxpayers, for example, as prosecutors, are, of course, putting some pressure on supposed political pressure instead of effectively pursuing crime and corruption as an example of a bank hole in almost 10 years that prosecutors have managed to end the trials only for a weak 1.5% of the value of the bank hole, and after 10 years, I doubt that all these judgments are already legally binding. I am also personally disappointed that, during the hearing of the candidate on the Justice Committee last week and also in today's debate and opposition positions, we have heard truly depressed words, accusations, half the truth, insinuation, some assumptions, half the statement of half the question, the marks under the belt, the ridicule that the candidate, while reading, knows that he is not ethical enough, moral and all these are attacks by ad persons who really, yes, grieve and thank my colleagues from the coalition that they have also pointed to this. While I understand that the opposition will not support the candidate, this is entirely your legitimate decision, but all this intolerance, the undignified expression, manipulation, the production of some half of the truths, it really surprises me that you are using yourself in such low blows in those political options, even though you are self-declaring for the greater Democrats, that you are more patient, more free-minded, but obviously only when you are in power and on your own skin now we are also trying your former political partners this year and a half than we are on the other side of the political struggle. In her discussion, colleague Heferle dramatically stressed that our rule of law is dying of meals. I would add here, if I did, if I could, but it's not because of politics, but because of the inefficiency of the justice system. You know, waiting ten years and more for justice, that's no longer a right. However, when a colleague named Sukič is lighting up more than a decade old affair of friends in bankruptcy and along with completely unjustifiable and without any connections mentioning any name that has nothing to do with the recent affair, I strongly recommend that she be convinced before opening up the memory of a painful indeed affair and of human resources when judges, bankruptcy administrators and lawyers of some other political-ideological orientations worked hand in hand. Although the candidate frankly said at the hearing that somehow the work programme for this bad year has been somehow set up, defined, by the end of the term of office, to be defined by the work programme of the Ministry of Justice and by the Presidency programme of the Council of the European Union, that the priorities are clear and certainly have my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear's got the word, and he's got the mag behind him. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I'm going to speak very personally to the candidate. I'm hoping you won't give me a violation of the ethical code if I personally talk to someone who isn't here, but he's a candidate. And on behalf of the LMŠ, the distinguished candidate for the Minister of Justice asks you first if you have thought this through. Why? Because you are risking that in a few hours you may be lying in this National Assembly, that if you are elected, you will swear before this National Assembly, before the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and if this oath is not just a phrase and a formality for you, of course, you should imagine it deeply before you say it. Because of what the oath says, I swear that I will respect the constitutional order to follow my conscience. That's the promise the minister made, that's how the Prime Minister made his promise. But a candidate for a minister, you are submitting yourself to a government that has broken an oath so many times since its creation, has violated the constitution and laws so many times that no one counts it. And in the letter of Marjan Sarca, we feel that there is nothing to show that this government will stop doing this. That is why, of course, a candidate for a minister, we should ask ourselves how you will respect constitutional order in such a government. As Minister of Justice we should be in the government's guardian of the rule of law, and I ask you, is the rule of law for you? Do you take it as a control over the exercise of authority? Are you taking the ministerial road because of the rule of law or because it is the right government for you? This government, however, exploits the power of citizens for its own interests, political recruitment, the beating of fundamental democratic values, the spread of hatred and the attack of all and all that is critical to the functioning of this government. If this, a respected candidate, is your values, then you really are only deciding on the real rule of law and not the rule of law. Because there is nothing you can do to resist such policies. If you agree to such a policy, then you will simply lie to a citizen by oath, not because you simply will not respect, a respected candidate, a constitutional order. Otherwise, this ruling policy has taken your freedom before you are even in a position to be voted by the National Assembly on your candidacy. She took the fundamental right to make her opinion known to you. You must not say that Janša's decision to annul the procedure for the selection of European Delegated Prosecutors is obviously illegal. If, because of an illegal move by the government, the justice minister resigns, this is a sign that something is seriously wrong with the current government. It is so bad that even lawyers from circles close to rulings find fault with the rule of law. And you, a candidate for a minister, can't talk about it, it's an eminent question that he's falling for, or there's a minister if he really has something to do with the rule of law. The Ministry will take over the Ministry immediately before the start of the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. And in Europe you will be asked whether Slovenia is in favour of effective control over the use of European funds. What Will You Answer? As in "hearing", "no comment"? It won't work. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is a crucial body for the European Commission to combat fraud, corruption and money laundering in the use of European funds. It is too important to play with him because the prosecutors from Slovenia who investigated Janez Janša's assets are not appointed for this reason. And you, a candidate who has no opinion on this or, better said, should be a defender of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. In the List of Marjan Sarcas we judge that you will not, or you will not be. You know the fate of your predecessor. You will respect the constitutional order of the government, which, contrary to the Constitution, has maintained a curfew, a curfew and a ban on crossing municipal borders. In a government that has unlawfully restricted the exit and entry of citizens into its own country, which has contravened the accreditation of itself to a sympathetic higher education institution, which has unlawfully restricted education to children with special needs, which has inadvertently pushed older people into retirement and, you will respect, you will think that you will be a constitutional order in the Government, which, with hooliganic violence against law, is destroying the press agency that we have set up as one attribute of our independence when it comes to independence. You will not, my dear candidate, because there is simply no constitutional order in such a government, as is evident from all of the above, and you will not or will not simply not be. You come to the government of Janez Janša as a bankruptcy manager, but there, there you will not manage anything, there you know who manages and you will end up in bankruptcy mass you, your client and the other supporters, as soon as the manager no longer needs the artificial lungs you create to survive this coalition. The fact that you're going to join such a government says a lot about you, the candidate, if you can only say a little about yourself, of course, says a lot about this government. He attracts in his kind a man who has been in charge of straw companies, a man who has not been experienced enough for the director of the healthcare home, a man who was unfit for notary. It is accompanied by a common property with the President of the Government, which is that he does not like to raise judicial mail. Consider, therefore, the candidate of the Minister of Justice, whether these few moments of the government's ministry, with a marked underestimation of the rule of law, in the government with a markedly negative attitude towards the judiciary, will provide you with sufficient references when next time you will be competing for directorship in a healthcare home or for a notary function. The ministry is only a great honour and a great responsibility and honor will go away by violating the oath, and you will be responsible, in the government of Janez Janša, very quickly for all that the Government will do, because the distinguished candidate for the minister, Janez Janša, regularly assigns the credit to himself and to the SDS party, and for all that you will continue to blame the coalition partners, we will be guilty of the opposition, the Constitutional Court is guilty, and the NGOs, the media, the European Commissioners are guilty, so is Milan Kučan, and it is also the fault of those who ate the crochet with the mask. You are submitting to such a government, and you do not have a candidate for the Minister of Justice and my or the support of the client of the List of Marjan Šarc on this path.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Again, I'd like to ask you to be respectful. Even the previous government could be guilty of something, and even in the previous government, you could take some responsibility, and you didn't, did you? I suggest we move on, mag. Dean Jedhan has the floor. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Bojana Muršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u44	Yes, thank you, Mr President, for the floor. While I understand that you can't get out of your own skin and that at the end of the day you are presiding, you can do a lot of things, but to comment on the debate of an individual Member, and I think that you, as president, Dr. Rules of Procedure, I think you know that this is not the case. The debate of each Member is as it is, so I propose or propose a procedural proposal to respect the Rules of Procedure and to conduct the meeting as well as to conduct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I think I'm running the meeting right. I have a duty to draw attention to certain things, just as I have every chairman. I suggest we not get too involved in this debate. You want a procedure? [[Yeah.]] Moica the Boxer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll give you a confession because you're holding the meeting properly. However, I propose that Mrs Bojana Muršič join the Committee on Culture, at least she will discipline Mrs Violeto Tomić, who comments on every debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Look, I suggest we stick to the point of a procedural proposal. Colleague Muršič spoke about the use of the Rules of Procedure in the management of this meeting. I have the opportunity and the right and the duty, after all, to say that when I am being monitored, I should also warn, and I could also interrupt, but I am not, but I should warn you about ahead, most of all. And I suggest we respect these things, that they go. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Don't be nervous, you'll get it when I'm done. I want the debate to be brought to an end in a calm tone, without undue insults, I will say, unnecessary instigation, no disrespect, no impatience and so on. In short, let's give some level to this house. Gradually, Mrs. Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u48	Thank you very much, chairman. In this spirit, as you have now concluded your mind, I ask you to warn us somehow or call Member Mojco Škrnjar not to abuse this session for the attacks on Ambassador Violeto Tomić, who is for the first time absent from the Chamber and for the second time, we are not now on the Committee on Culture, nor are we on the Mandate- voluntary Commission or on any criminal commission, but we are dealing with a candidate for the Minister of Justice. Therefore, in this spirit, as you have correctly identified and supported, I ask you to warn the Member of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I will do my best, as I have done so far, to hold discussions in some appropriate spirit, not insulting, not underestimating and so on. I suggest we move on. The word has magic. Dejan Jedhan will be followed by Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Candidate, if you're watching us! And everyone else who's watching us or listening! Nicely greeted! And I don't have a procedure, but it's my turn, and I'm not sorry that I'm in the right order. Today we are sitting at an extraordinary meeting, which has the title of the proposal for a candidate for the Minister of Justice. And as the first point of explanation of Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša's proposal. And here you are, Mr. Candidate, if you're listening to us or watching us, you get your first earring. The one who suggested you is not in this room. How do you understand that? Are you ashamed, he doesn't trust you? Of course, you'll explain yourself. You, 38 Members and members of the minority government, have also received an earring. Your President did not think it worth what was announced to make him present your candidate. Well, the beginning is extremely bad. Secondly, it is indeed a difficult situation in this country if the opposition must defend the former minister from members and members of her party. This is an impossible situation for members of the party from which the former minister explained to her that she could not negotiate. I have this opportunity to meet Lilliana Kozlovich. We were in some government together, and the past is the past. I didn't know her before, and I don't have any contact with her right now. And I remembered her as a person who was loyal to the then President of the Government, which is probably expected of the Secretary-General of the Government. By the way, someone who is Secretary-General of the Government can't be Secretary-General of the Government if he can't reconcile a few things. I remembered her by being competent, by having a spine, and by having a lot of things to coordinate and also to find good solutions. Then she became minister in this government, and I didn't understand why she did it. I did not understand her more than a year of silence when she is a competent minister, if an independent judiciary or other authorities are attacked, must respond clearly and loudly and say that we have a Constitution in this country, which makes things very clear and protects what this lady, who is therefore highly ranked in my eyes, is silent. Now she's not the minister anymore. I think it probably wasn't easy for her this year, that probably when she insisted and also helped to keep at least some constitutional order in this country, but I don't know these things, but I don't suppose it must be a terrible thing to do when one's own client turns his back on each of us, you could be in this country, we're in politics here, and it's an impossible situation when one's own people turn their back on them, but it's over now. Today is your candidate I don't know, I've never heard of him before. I'm not a member of the committee responsible, so I couldn't even get to know him there. I am reading as far as a magnetogram is possible, I am listening to these discussions and what is most important is that if you choose enough votes – I would like you not to collect them – it will be as has been said today that this candidate will have to speak a few words. He'll have to talk. I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, I will follow my knowledge and work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia. In particular, the Constitution is clear, and the Minister responsible for justice has an incredible responsibility to the judiciary, the prosecution and not least to the fact that the Constitution is respected. It's a bad trip. I don't know the candidate, but a traveller of the action of a minority government, who can be described as a one-in-a-kind government with some kind of satellite, is slightly allowed to play with some expensive weapons, but a similar game is left behind, but basically, when a serious matter is hit on the table and then they all shudder and follow one will, but the problems that you have within the coalition, inside the government is entirely your thing in the truth. [[Incomprehensible]] But the problem is, when an independent judiciary is required to do so, the prosecution. When we're slowly getting into a situation where control institutions are really not going to be independent anymore, and things are very clever, you know. What you are basically suggesting is that you want one of the opposition parties, which to ban in fact human history, the European history of such projects knows. The first party doesn't even matter which one it is, it's just the first and you who support within the ruling coalition don't think this thing comes to pass, that it doesn't come to yours, that it doesn't come to you. Retrograde trends are noticeable and large. Enoumje is trying to spread where it should not spread in a democratic society. That you won't think that I'm pessimistic of course the elections will actually be here the elections are almost that now, this year less than a year will pass very quickly. I also know that Slovenia has sufficient self-preservation and democratic potential to reverse trends over time, but every step taken in the wrong direction does harm not only to the state but to citizens and citizens. Which is why, of course, you know as the opposition Member that I have to say, it would be ideal if today the candidate whose candidate did not come to support him did not get enough votes. It would be ideal for the election of the candidate to be entrusted to Parliament to be recalculated. Who are those people and this in a visible way, not how you hide the vote there in those closed quarters. In a visible way. Who is in favour of simply saying, we have reached a point that requires people, our people, to redefine the direction in which we want Slovenia to develop. Whatever the result or result, of course, will be legitimate. But the current situation is significantly different than it was years ago when the last elections were held. There are customers in the government who said we'll never be in a government like this. This government has very little in common from the point of view of the last elections. In this government, the people, the parties whose leaders of the day shouted out loudly, shouted that they were almost too loud for moments, we would never be in such a government. This should already be sufficient to allow citizens and citizens to redefine the policy they want in Slovenia and the direction of development. So, as well as all Members of the Social Democrats, I will vote against the proposal for this candidate, and if today there is happiness for this country that the candidate would not be elected, we could all understand that this is only a possible first step in the right direction to refocus Slovenia on the path of democratic development. Mr President, thank you for the floor, Vice-President, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga has the word, and she will be discussed by the Magi. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u52	Yes, thank you. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we usually have a problem at each meeting, because we are only four Members, it is absolutely too little for us to be able to fully discuss, answer and present our views. It's not like that today. Today, in fact, these 20 minutes that belong to us are far too much, because, as the previous words of the debaters have been made clear, we can argue about a few sentences that are even worth talking about, to use the words that the candidate for the minister has said, but everything else is so much so that I think it would be better if none of us came forward at all, because we are now talking about being respectful in our discussions and I have not heard today's disrespectful debate that we understand each other, even though we are being warned all the time. [[…]] So far, the debaters have been respectful, and of course they have been talking about the things the candidate has been talking about, the three lines written by the Prime Minister, about which were discussed by those who proposed this candidate. But if speaking about these things is disrespectful, then we must ask ourselves what they were saying, that when we repeat their words, we are disrespectful. Of course, I say that we are not, but today we need to talk about content, we need to talk about some of the candidate's competences, his references, his previous work, his qualifications for the city he's running for and so on. If the content of all that I've listed, for whom it's disrespectful, then of course we can all ask each other a little bit about what candidate we have ahead of us. And believe me, we're wondering. We're wondering because it's incomprehensible. Of course, we can also talk about the fact that there has already been a candidate in a large number of governments who have been given a word about it, but forgive me, but not yet, not that we get three lines in the very explanation, this is what I have been repeating all the time, it shows how much contempt for the National Assembly is by the executive branch of power in this country. That's contempt. That's disrespect, that's it, that's your place. So, literally, this is your place. And this is shown in this proposal. And, of course, we also went to a meeting of the Committee on Justice in order to ask something else, but we might get something that we can say is a reference, that there is a basis for someone to be a candidate for a minister, and unfortunately we have taken this into account. We have found that the candidates' references begin and end in a judicial examination, in conducting bankruptcy for 16 non-essential companies, and in that the candidate, believe it or not, in his own words to the camera to the members of the committee and the general public, said that he was a strawed minister. I've got this video, I've got this whole part on tape, so we can understand each other. For a minute and a half, he's talking about that he wasn't a real CEO in companies, that he was a real manager or someone else. I don't know how we can comment on such implementation, but the fact that, of course, he fell for the simplest trick that a fellow Member had set up for him, and freely this fact of his own, or the inconvenientness that he was talking about, he also admitted, so let's put it nicely with simple words, he said he was a straw director. He said it himself. And certain institutions should be dealing with these statements at this point in my opinion. We should. And I was in the middle when I asked him some questions, and, of course, when he answered none of those questions, there was even such a summary of his previous work, of his competences, I asked him about his views, and, of course, when he answered none of those questions in fact, you made even such a summary so that I could then ask him again very briefly once again, when I somehow utopianly expected that he would answer at least one or two of those questions, but the only answer that I got from him was when I asked him which condition for the notary he was running for was not fulfilling, that was a very concrete answer, because I also mentioned to him what conditions the notary candidate had to fulfill and as we have already said you would not believe, of course he answered that he had not fulfilled one year of experience in law. No, it's not. And he'll be the minister, apparently. He doesn't. And we have heard today that he is not even among the lawyers, it is said, even for the director of the healthcare home he was not suitable in Kozy they said he was not suitable. The companies mentioned by a fellow Member at the hearing, however, the candidate acknowledged that, of course, the straw director in these companies was indeed all unsuccessful when he spoke about what projects these companies were dealing with and he, on their behalf as the director, said that they wanted this and that, but failed, it was not successful and, of course, I, at the end of the day, asked him which money and what he bought a suit in which he was sitting, normally, the most logical question that arises to you when you listen to someone who did not really tell him where he was employed at the time. When he won't say what he's been doing. When we hear what we hear, companies are in, written on the homeless, and I don't know who else, when we get the information, that of course he participated in some auctions and artificially raised or not priced and so on. Excuse me. After all, we have the right to ask about the appropriateness, credibility and anything else of the candidate. Not only do we have the right, it's our duty. And believe me, I was seriously thinking at that hearing when the opposition Members were asking questions again and again, asking him to define certain things in order to give certain answers, I was seriously thinking about going back to the basics. Because obviously those tough questions don't work. Perhaps I should ask the candidate if he can only list the areas of the Ministry of Justice's work to read them out of the law, or if they have written a letter to him. Because he couldn't really read a reminder, I'm sorry. Because he also read those parts that were intended for the candidate himself to get to know what he would be dealing with. And he read everything in order, because it took an hour and a half. And so there were comments that he could read, yes. For half an hour he read what we have not seen before, on no committee, no presentation of the minister or a candidate for a minister. Now that the candidate is being sold as an expert in bankruptcy procedures, of course I was primarily interested in how familiar the candidate is with this area and whether he is familiar with the draft proposal of the ZFPIP, as the colleague has kindly taught us to say in short, that is, the law governing bankruptcy procedures, very briefly, that I will not complicate with the full name. So the proposal, which was written at the Ministry of Justice last July, is as a high priority for the party which, of course, has been in the cabinet until now, there are some solutions inside and I have asked the candidate to define [[sign for the end of the debate]] or to indicate how these solutions assess, what it thinks about the proposals of the Chamber and what it thinks about that unappreciated constitutional decision which is not present in this proposal, the candidate could not be defined in a single sentence. Not in any of them. If we leave the references now, we focus on his knowledge and knowledge of the area for which he is an expert. 'Cause of course I'm running out of time and I'm gonna end up in this place. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And I hope that such a candidate never happens to us again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, and Jura Ferrjan will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the candidate for the future minister will listen to us, but he may well ask himself, at the beginning of today's meeting, he has received his first earring by the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister of the future did not take five minutes to step forward for this cathedral, to say a few lines about him and to present him to us Members and Members and also to the general public. And yes, Minister, candidate for Minister, Mr Marjan Dikaucič, comes to the political floor as a complete stranger. Thus, of course, he was also presented in a written proposal by the Prime Minister. On one sheet, but not on one A4 sheet, but on three lines. And worse than that, we haven't even seen his résumé. Why am I saying this? This is because when ordinary citizens and citizens are invited to apply, a CV should also be included in the application. Perhaps it's a cleaning lady, perhaps it's a professional associate, perhaps a director, but there's still a little more to be added, or a vision to be presented. And yes, although the vision could be presented by a candidate for a minister on the committee itself, I will discuss this further. This candidate we have for the first time has no political experience. All right, well, you kind of forget about it. He wants to get into politics, he's being proposed by a political party, and he's going to try it out in this role. Great. We don't have a problem with that. But when we start researching, there's no leadership experience. As a result, it has no political experience and is expected to be free from past stains. And yes, as I accompanied the Committee on Justice on Thursday, first of all its introductory explanation, then its replies, I followed them very closely and also read an article in the media. But we were faced with a cruel truth. Since it is not politically known, it is not even known in the environment in which it has a registered permanent residence. Maybe he's familiar with the environment where he found his love and where he lives today. Usually, though, it is also true that where you live, you have a registered permanent residence, otherwise at least temporary residence, so that at least those who heat you any mail know where to find you. And yes, why has it happened repeatedly that they haven't found him? Because he's not at the permanent address, I don't know if he has a temporary address or not, but there's probably a question as to how far along he is. Yes, and the fact is, it's burdened with past stains, straw companies. I personally have a very strong opinion on this and by exhausting businesses and setting up new ones. And look at the fraction, just the one that the media are reporting, and I personally don't know it, he was dealing with it. Therefore, it would also be expected that changes to the legislation that will need to be adopted or I think that we should have it long ago in order to set the right criteria, and that what has happened and is still happening, should also prevent the possibility of switching companies where the shortest route is for employees, those who renounce, stay on the road, on the stock market, without paid contributions and without anything. This is happening too often, and it has to be done once. And the creditors, as well as the tax administration here, draw the shortest. Because debts remain. And as we heard on the board, yes, that's exactly what he was doing. This can't be a good trip, just for the Minister of Justice. And what else? What my colleague has already said before me, the candidate for a minister has also participated in auctions in his previous career, and there is nothing wrong here. But when there is a dispute that auction prices are rising on the one hand, on the other hand there is even pressure to lower these auction prices and if there is a press release based on documentation, which I believe is also true, there is at least one property that Trius bought in the country for the poor EUR 50 000, he bought in the 1,755 square square of a large residential plot for Strunjan. There have also been such things as not to mention that he has been dealing with companies that had blocked accounts for even one 365-day period and that he will be a candidate or such a candidate for the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice should be a trustworthy person. In the first place, they are not burdened with young people, especially those who point to even the suspicion of criminal services. And if I touch his presentation on the committee, everything other than his vision was even so I saw it as teaching the members of the Justice Committee about justice, the prosecution, the judiciary. For me, which I am not a lawyer, this was an offensive presentation, because I believe that those who are members of the Justice Committee are very well aware of this, as it would be expected. At the time I was a member, believe me, I really learned in detail that I also understood this whole system and what was the worst thing on the committee itself. Former Minister Lilliana Kozlovich, former colleague of mine has resigned. Why? For the reason that the Government has decided to cancel and repeat the procedure for the selection of European Delegated Prosecutors proposed by the Council of State and Prosecutors. And yes, she has resigned and indeed here she has protected her integrity and here she goes, and also in this place I sincerely thank her for her work, which she has just done. I have to say that when she walked into those shoes, we spoke a few words, and I told her I admire you wearing those shoes because I believe it's not easy. And it also turned out in the media that during this time of the ministry it was not easy, it did not have the support of the Prime Minister of the Government, but it was the worst thing not having the support of its own party, and when she did it it was, of course, or at least I would expect that the future candidate for the Minister of Justice would clearly define this issue of the selection process, but no, he turned into a tank, that the proceedings would be going on and now this is not going to work, but it simply does not hold up the judgment. What else am I trying to say? Nor did Dr. Matthew Avbelj convince him of the Government's arguments, and he felt at least in the media that the government was in violation of the rule of law, in violation of the rule of law, Dr. Matthew Avbelj. I don't think this government really cares about the rule of law. He's blowing up at democratic rules. If I touch any more candidates. He does not have one year of working experience in the area of governance, but he will now be headed by the Ministry of Justice. He is not suitable for the Director of the Health Institute, he is not suitable for notary, but look at the fraction we have a candidate for the Minister of Justice and if this happens, we know how to choose this Government around him today. I absolutely believe that a candidate such as Mr Marjan Dikaucič does not fall under such an important function as the Minister of Justice and does not have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Jura Ferrjan has the word, and he'll get the word Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members and all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! Today's debate may begin with a few words. What was particularly on the Committee on Justice where the candidate for the Minister of Justice presented himself and also, of course, answered questions from Members and Members. I would point out that the candidate for a minister is, of course, in favour of the implementation of the coalition treaty, to be aware of the importance of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, of course, also on this branch, which he will represent if he does. And of course it is also from the perception that, as long as it is confirmed today as Minister of Justice, it is one year before it, which, of course, on the one hand, is a fact, and on the other hand, must not be an obstacle to certain commitments, or as many commitments as possible, which are enshrined in the Coalition Treaty and, of course, which it will also, and will still be a candidate for the Minister of Justice, will fulfil. I can support this by pointing out that, if we are already comparing some ministers between ourselves, and ultimately the presidents or the presidents of governments, we can see that those main criteria, whether something is to be done or not, are not the length of the mandate, but the ability and knowledge and experience of the one who has the scissors and canvas in his hands. So, unlike many in this Chamber today, I will not judge a candidate for a minister or possibly a future minister before he takes up his term of office, but will assess his work once he has completed his term of office. Then it will be possible to see what he did or did not do and whether he fulfilled his promises, his commitments. I would also like to see more on the Committee on Justice and today more on the priorities of what needs to be done in the judiciary and what positions the candidate for the Minister of Justice has in this area, as well as political overplay, and could express or choose another word link. Therefore, allow me two substantive points, which the candidate for the Minister of Justice also referred to. One relates to one of the questions I raised at the hearing, regarding the field of clinical psychologists in Slovenia, which is now critically lacking in Slovenia. In fact, this has been a problem for quite some time, we have 26 of them, of which 16 are specialized in parenting and care. According to or in the opinion of the Chamber of Clinical Psychologists of Slovenia, this moment would require an additional four hundred, and, of course, the Minister or candidate for the Minister of Justice was able to answer and was in favour of solving this area. Another important issue is certainly the implementation of the recent decision of the Ministry or the Committee on Justice, which somehow imposed measures on the Ministry of Justice in relation to or in order to make judgments, judicial judgments, in fact at all levels, accessible to the public. Last but not least, judges judge in the name of the people, say judgment on behalf of the people, and it is right that this people, of course, also have access to these judgments, so that they can read them so that these judgments are public, publicly accessible. In its conclusion or final part of the debate, I would also respond a little to what has already been said today. In particular, in some way in the left opposition, you are taking this story about the obvious, which is somehow understood, but not only today, that if a person, a candidate, is now a minister, but sometimes for another function, if it comes from your kind, it is an independent individual, in short, the best candidate, if it is a representative or now when proposed by the current coalition or by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I am not only talking about today's specific case, but also more broadly, but it is a problem, but once it is a lack of experience, another problem is a client's card, the third time the problem is something third, in short, you always find an excuse that this candidate is not appropriate, because you are not politically or, I don't know, in any other way, obviously not answering. In these comments you are sometimes even offensive, not all of them, but many of them at this point, of course, say the most about you at this level. Here I would continue by reading to the candidate for the Minister of Justice that he has no experience, that there is no politics, that it is not what it is. Look, a lot of us, or not one of you, have had, I don't know, any experience when we were elected to this temple of democracy, but people have chosen us, they have trusted us, and our work reflects what we are and, of course, voters and voters will overestimate our work and, of course, the work of the party that we are also representing in this National Assembly. And so, of course, it is also the responsibility of Members and Members of Parliament, who today will elect a candidate for a minister or decide whether to give this candidate a minister of trust, and then the time will show whether the candidate for a minister or later for a minister will justify that confidence and whether we will be satisfied with his work. I am convinced that anyone who is elected or appointed to an important function, whether it be a Member of the National Assembly or a Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or an important function in the country, that he will do his best and work and do his best, and I believe that this will also be done by the candidate for the Minister of Justice or the future Minister of Justice. I will support the candidate for the Minister of Justice today, I believe he will receive sufficient support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word "Giggles" means "Ciggles" and he'll get a mag behind him. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u58	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I'd say this about the candidate for the Justice Minister. On the Committee on Justice, as has been pointed out many times today, he read almost an hour and a half of the documents on competences and the organisation of justice in Slovenia, and when he finished the matter, and we told him that the members of the committee that he had practically not touched the substantive problems of reality at all, he was looking at us. He has been asked questions about the appointment of state prosecutors in Slovenia, fourteen of whom are waiting for appointment, for a long time, while 77% of the prosecutions have been occupied, and as was announced by the state prosecutors at the meeting before the regular Justice Committee, the age structure of prosecutors is such that a large departure of this staff will take place and what this will mean for the country. When we warned him about this, the candidate lost his opinion. When we alerted him not to the problem of not naming delegated European prosecutors and what this means for Slovenia, in particular the view that they should monitor the use of European funds, those to get out of the crisis in this pandemic, and this is particularly important because Slovenia is known for its illegal use of European funds in the past, it said that it has no opinion that it did not wish to make a statement in the short term, it did not say anything. When we told him that from the existing government and coalition policy, this is confirmed by various laws, anti-korona packages in which the undersigned, who are then removed by the Constitutional Court, the legal profession in Slovenia is confined to them, even that part of the legal profession, which is practically identical to the right, Mr Avbla has already mentioned many times today, or that the public against many, almost the majority of the laws and measures adopted by this Government, and the coalition confirms, protests, is a candidate and when they have been argumentatively said these things so that they can be answered, I could say, I support this because of this, this, this and this, of that, he has not been given an opinion. He didn't say anything. As a result, today’s discussions in the National Assembly are based on this. You have to understand that. And in fact it is an ideal candidate and will be an ideal minister in the existing functioning of political power and autocratic power in Slovenia, because it simply has no opinion. And such people are usually the most receptive, obedient, and practically no benefit, excuse me. This is an important area of justice, which is responsible for an important part of the third branch of government, namely the judiciary in Slovenia. And here we are now talking in the National Assembly, the highest political authority in this country, about the candidate for the justice minister, and on the other hand 14 state candidates for state prosecutors are waiting for appointment in this more than half a year. Hello?Oh, my God! Where do we live? We are obviously living in a political community where democracy has been broken down to the point where it does not go down. It is as if the attempt to do what is the sustainability of the beating of human rights and freedoms and also the foundations of the rule of law in one small part of this world called the Republic of Slovenia. And they are collapsing in fact one of the foundations of legal democracy in our country. And the person who wants to participate in this demolition, and even as a justice minister without an opinion, really asks the question, in what way, on what basis, with what argument, colleagues and colleagues, should he be appointed today, will this person be confirmed? As a judicial minister cannot be appointed without reference, without working experience in any leading positions, be careful of the Minister of Justice. And the Minister of Justice cannot be appointed without knowing the director for whom he is running. This was evident when we asked him questions at the hearing and when the debate developed. And for the Minister of Justice, how can we name a person who has not been able or chosen, so the authorities are not able to say him, but so the authorities have decided, neither for the director of the health house in the municipality of Šmarje pri Jelšah or for the notary in the Municipality of Žalec. And when he wasn't elected there, he went to the prosecution of the Justice Department. And surely a person whose references are particularly what we know cannot be chosen as a justice minister, only we have learned that he masters the work of straw companies and what is happening to them or what these companies are intended to do. I'm asking you a question, for corruption, for money laundering? I asked you a question. In fact, and with the ones we've seen in the media that inform us of this, some legacy leaves us behind. These are unpaid accounts to creditors, employees' salaries, contributions, the state, the FURS, our financial administration. To the money of this country, from which we then finance education, homes for the elderly, health care, science, entrepreneurship. Look, we expected that a man, a candidate for politics and developments in this country, especially in the field of justice, unfortunately gave no answers, so that, at least a certain part of the candidates, apart from those who might, Members, pardons, on the Committee on Justice, apart from those who might have gotten something else to look into, we could not identify him. Because what he has read you can bring to this national assembly for a hearing of any. And he'll be a great candidate if he reads, and then he won't be able to answer practically any questions. See, the situation that takes place with such a view to justice, because this appointment today is an indicator of the attitude of this government and coalition, to the system of justice in the Republic of Slovenia towards the rule of law and the rules arising from it. And in so far as it is called the Minister of Justice a man with such references, all respected one man, but after he has presented it means that the legal state in the Republic of Slovenia is the relative majority, if reached today, of the reviving. Look, and then it's no wonder that, as we had before, I said at a regular session which was before the extraordinary meeting of the Justice Committee when we talked about the functioning of the prosecution in Slovenia – we found that they are achieving, despite having severe staffing difficulties, I will say the results in a very jealous manner, given the state of their work. And we have found that there is no point in what balance they present to us, how successful they are and so on, but that the problem is that the conditions under which the prosecution or justice in the Republic of Slovenia are placed after its operation are established. Not far from being favourable and suitable for their successful work, and I have highlighted this. Look, they were successful. In TES6, 2004 it started, from 650 million to 400 billion. Nevertheless, the prosecutor, a Celje police officer, a Celje criminalist with the help of a specialized state prosecutor, has reached international level and this is also a state institution, and others have participated, I admit. Settlement for successors, this is General Electric in the United States, that 261 million settlements will be made, issued and will obviously also sanction certain relations and probably also the people who have been recognised in this corruption by this settlement, recognised, sanctioned somewhere. [[Incomprehensible]] But look at the fraction, this corruption took place in Slovenia. And if there's a settlement out there, where we are. We have just begun judicial proceedings on this matter. And TES6 will be closed a long time ago when the proceedings in this matter continue, and I hope they will not end the way another matter has ended, which is why the whole world is watching us and even laughing at us probably when we are talking about the rule of law. This is the Patria affair, where the pre-balanced Constitutional Court practically annulled the case and thereby caused it to lapse. However, those who participated in this corruption, which had its roots in our country, in the Republic of Slovenia, either abroad or in Austria or elsewhere, were normally fined due to the facts found. Do we want such legal states? This question has also been asked by a candidate for minister. He was quiet. In short, he doesn't have an opinion. And a man without his opinion, for the Minister of Justice in the Republic of Slovenia in today's times and conditions such as these, we certainly cannot act and we will not personally support him in Levica, nor will I personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Before I give the word forward, just to remember. Those who were guilty in the Patria affair were convicted and imprisoned. Those who weren't, they weren't convicted. Now let's get on with it. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. He'll be followed by Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Unfortunately, between you and me, I can't say hello to the President of the Government. We would kind of expect that the candidate for a minister would also be present, but obviously this is so irrelevant to him that he simply does not take the time to do so, or we can understand that he totally despises Parliament and is simply not worth wasting time to explain to the Members why he decided to be a candidate for a justice minister. This is clearly the attitude of this Government and the President, especially the President, towards the institution of the National Assembly. Now, let me focus on the candidate for minister. See, with virtually every application to any job, it is necessary to submit a CV first and above all, a CV is said where the work experience is given, past employment. When it comes to more important positions, leadership positions, more visible achievements, leadership experience and the like are also expected. We have here today at the table a candidacy for the Minister of Justice. Not only do we not know much about his plans, his programme of work, his political priorities, because it is clear - the proposed candidate with the judiciary does not have any but no experience. It does not even want to be defined on key open issues. Besides, we don't even have a CV from a gentleman like I said. Given that I am convinced that Members are not properly equipped with all the information that we can actually decide today on this ministerial candidate, I think that this relationship is extremely inconvenient and that we do not have the basic conditions to decide on this candidate at all. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing, what this government is doing with a frame of mind, is first of all unfair and unfair to the Members and Members who are deciding on it. Above all, it is not essential that it is unfair to MEPs and Members, but it is unfair to people, citizens and citizens, and then you get representatives of the coalition primarily from the SMC with such statements that the candidate will be a bankruptcy administrator to tackle bankruptcy legislation, which is supposed to be a software priority for the SMC. Your Honor, I have read your program in detail, but there is no bankruptcy and insolvency in your SMC program. I don't think I'll be too hard to say that the human resources policy of this government is perfect, but it's a total failure. I don't know what seems more unworthy to suggest to people who obviously don't have the appropriate competence or that people accept a job they're not qualified for. Mr Dikaucič, you are in position at a time when the ruling party, the SDS party sincerely wants to support all social subsystems and, above all, the media on the one hand and justice. I am sure that you are aware of this, too, that your client, who has proposed to you, has not recently agreed to an intervention in the judiciary with no appointment of prosecutors and so on. Do you really think that you will be able to protect justice from the political influence that we have witnessed when one party, the SDS party, wants full authority and justice is one of its key targets. You think you can protect the independence and integrity of justice. As a politically inexperienced person without a serious client's backside, without serious status and reputation among the legal profession. I think you're very resourceful, to say the least, if you think you're going to be able to do your job properly. But if your name is just a straw, then your appointment means actually capitulation of the judicial system. If you have any respect for citizens and citizens, do not go into this political game in any way in view of the problematic past you are already facing today. I am seriously asking myself here, not this town, if there is some kind of forecasting procedure against you, but there are many others on the committee that you have not answered. But the fact is that one thing for this country is only one, and this solution is early elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word, and he'll be followed by Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President. Friends and colleagues, hello! At the beginning of this meeting today, it was heard in one of the positions on the coalition side that the candidate did a good job of combing the area away from it. The candidate read even more superficially what was written to him. Finally, he spoke about matters which the Committee on European Affairs of this National Assembly rejected last Friday, and the Government therefore refused to take part in the Justice Council, where European Delegated Prosecutors were not able to perform, but he did so, of course, because someone had written to him. Now, if the gentleman were here, he can't be here, because he's not yet a minister, but at least the one he suggested could repeat the exercise from the committee. In fact, I asked him just two simple questions that he was unable to answer. And this and the fact that Members today have not received an explanation from the Prime Minister, let us leave that written offensively short one, in fact, is indeed shameful and humiliating to this institution, not only to the opposition Members, but also to you, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, and especially to the people we represent. So much for how much respect this government has for institutions in our country. However, I asked the applicant whether it was the view that the Government itself should initiate a court-certified procedure, whether its repeal was, in all likelihood, appropriate, legal and constitutionally indisputable. And he was as quiet as a mouse. Then I asked him whether he would oppose the Prime Minister when he asked him to break his profession, break his own law or his own beliefs. And it was quiet here, too. So I asked him three times in a row. And he couldn't answer. It probably wouldn't work today. However, these are extremely important questions, which the candidate for the justice minister would in fact expect a very clear and short answer, just yes or no. This candidate is actually going to be a puppet and that's it. This candidate is in this place to obey what he's told to do. We have already seen this with some other candidates, and with the SMC, which has become a prisoner, only the satellite of the largest government party, is not expected otherwise. Now in the LMŠ we have made it clear that we cannot and will not support the candidate, such a candidate, of course. Because we are different because we respect the rule of law because we have morals and values from which we do not give up and I think that this is a great, much, much better and much better advantage than stepping outside of some of your principles just to be in office or to stay in office. I'll finish it slowly. What has already been reported to the candidate, what has come to mind, that he has acted in straw companies, that he has very close connections in some lobbyes and so on, is enough for the candidate to withdraw himself, but of course this will not happen. And I think that this candidate is the farthest disappointment of this government and, in fact, the worst candidate that the government has ever proposed, not just this one, maybe any one. And today it is likely that this candidate will lie at least twice. For the first time, when he says he will respect constitutional order, because, of course, he cannot, because this government does not actually respect him, it is evident and clear from the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which you are sneering. And second, of course, he will lie when he says that he will act on his conscience, because this is from what we have seen on the committee that he is unable to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Now, before I put my word forward, mate, just a few words. The government law specifically prescribes how the resources are divided and those who have little knowledge of the government's functioning need to know that there is nothing going on with the government, which is not proposed by the minister. Now I will read the last four remaining on the list, Mojca Škrnjar, Gregor Perič, Boštjan Koražija and Mag. Dean Kaloh. Oh, Mozka the Gnyard is in the middle of it, yeah, but I missed it. [[talking to each other]] We continue with Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u64	Thank you very much. With what ease do heavy accusations today fall, not about what someone has done wrong, but what will surely happen. Mr Koprivc says there will certainly be another criminal procedure for the future minister. Mr. Prebil also swore to him that he would not be able to work and would lie when he swore. I don't think we've ever experienced such baseless accusations in Slovenia. Mr Medved said that the government was supposed to set up a curfew in violation of the Constitution. It should be recalled that the Law on Infectious Diseases, which was found by the Constitutional Court to be insufficiently precise and imposed on the government to supplement it, more precisely, was passed in 1995, I believe that Mr Drnovšek was then Prime Minister. Mr. Bear is clear and tells the candidate directly, think about it when you're looking for a job, but it's gonna be hard for you. What is this threat? Because he's gonna work in this government, he's gonna have a problem with his job. But that's pretty much it. I mean, I'm threatening, not the facts that will follow. Mr Bear is clearly eating croissant with some mask under his beard, but forget that the MP of his own party LMŠ Krajčič did not eat croissants, but stole a sandwich. And today he's the director of the Nazarje Forest Economy. If you follow what you've been predicting to the minister, to the future, what are some criminal proceedings for nothing, what will this gentleman gain? Mrs Muršič says he is not suitable for a health director at home and cannot be a minister. These are really ugly accusations. And I believe that the future minister will well reject them with his work. It is interesting, however, how you want to cooperate with the SMC party, whose candidate would be the minister, in opposition to the KUL, so you would cooperate with them in the government, but you despise them indescribably. That's very ugly. I believe that the new minister will face the situation he is, and it is not ideally possible. It is true, however, that if you read the report of the European Commission from 2020 on the state of justice systems, the data refer to 2018 that our judicial system is not in fact so weak as regards membership or the number of judges and prosecutors. In Austria, the number of judges per hundred thousand inhabitants is 27.3, in Germany 24.5, in Italy 11.6, and in Slovenia 41.7. The number of prosecutors per hundred thousand inhabitants is 4.3 in Austria, 7.1 in Germany, 3.7 in Italy and 10.2 in Slovenia. The increase from 2010 to 2020 is 27%. This is said to have increased, however, the number of prosecutors has increased to one hundred thousand. The same report says, however, about the effectiveness of this system, where we see that we have a very large number of employees, related cases and solved cases per 100 inhabitants, Austria has 5,28 cases per 100 inhabitants, solved 4,22, Germany 5,92, solved 3,37, Italy has 4,92, solved 3.67 and Slovenia has 3,02 and saved 1.91. So much for efficiency. First-degree criminal cases over two years of age, as a percentage, Austria has 3.4% and Serbia 3.1% and Slovenia has 11.5%. Iran’s money laundering, a billion laundered money investigated in detail by the committee led by Ange Logar, did not receive the indictment today, did not end up as an indictment or anything to happen in this area. So, there is much work to be done in front of the new minister, not just those two prosecutors who have to go forward to Europe, but we are not alone, nor have the Finns delegated them. I believe this will be successful. I believe that SMC's client has delegated or chosen the right candidate. There's no reason not to believe them. We are, the SDS party is in league with SMC, respecting its partners. And you KUL already spit in advance over your so-called future partners. Indeed, this is neither fair nor fair and, of course, we will, as Mr Kaloh has already said in his position, of course, support this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Boxer, you seem to have misunderstood me. I did not talk about whether the candidate would be in the forecasting process, but I wondered, given his past, in view of all the stories that have been leaking into the media, how the director was breaking in various straw companies, and so on, asking myself if there was even any predictive process due to his previous actions and actions. Of course, the minister on the committee didn't answer that. And now for your dilemma, our desire to cooperate with the SMC. I think this dilemma or fear of yours is completely overtaken. SMC's not like he used to be anymore. However, I am sure that after the elections, there will also be this remnant of SMC, which is no longer SMC, which is something completely different, so that your dilemma is completely over. And so do we. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] We will not deal with this because this party will no longer be. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u67	Comrade Koprivc [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u68	Now for the sandwich and the Member of Parliament [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u69	Replica [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u70	LMSH, which therefore resigned [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u71	Replica, please, not controversy and other things. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, allow me to finish my thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u73	The replica is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u74	Is a replica about [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u75	The first part was the replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u76	A former LMŠ member would say that it is very right for him to have resigned because of this act. [[…]] However, we have the case of the Prime Minister and someone else who still insists on many major crimes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u77	Comrade Koprivc [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u78	And it's just... [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u79	I warn you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u80	does not renounce position and power because it wants to take over total power in the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u81	I'm giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u82	Mr Vice President, allow me to finish my thought. [[…]] I've got three minutes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u83	Now I'll take your word for it if you continue with the violations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u84	I've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u85	The replica, my friend, is a replica. No debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u86	Ah, look, that's just how Parliamentarianism is by your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u87	The replica is a replica. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u88	If you don't agree with something, stop the opposition from speaking. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u89	Easy. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Peace in the hall! Peace in the hall, please! Peace in the hall! My friend, please read Article 70 of the Rules of Procedure, the first part of yours was a replica, and the rest was something else. It wasn't even the debate because you weren't even discussing it. And I suggest you stick to the rules of business. There will be the least problems in running meetings and other things. Now he's got a mag replica. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u90	Thank you very much. My colleague, Škrnjar, personally exposed me and I think she did not fully understand my discussion or my point of view. I didn't accuse anyone, as she said, that I accused a future candidate of not being suitable for a director of the medical dog. He wasn't right, these are written facts. That he wasn't fit for a notary, written down facts. I didn't make that up. And I'm not accusing him. That's right. Please don't speak, even at the hearing session he made it clear why he wasn't a suitable candidate for notary. [[…]] Because he didn't have any work experience. I listened very well to hearing, and that's how it is. And don't say I accused him of what he says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we are approaching the conclusion of the debate. There's no need to raise our voices. Now she will have the word of Mojca Žnidarič, behind her Boštjan Koražija. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! So today we are deciding on a candidate for the Minister of Justice, whom some of you read primarily his youth and thus lack of experience and recognition and reputation, because when I hear such statements, I sometimes ask myself whether it is right to hear whether this message is really what we want to convey to young people from this Chamber of Democracy. It is interesting that almost all politicians always like to talk or talk about how young people need to be given the opportunity, encourage them to make a decision to take up a position in politics, that is, when a younger person decides to take up a position in politics, and immediately put him on a sad bench and read to him exactly what he does for his own sake, that is, because he cannot yet have adequate work experience. Only in this mandate can we see examples of ministers who, as young people, have not only proved themselves to be excellent, but are really doing their job very well with a great deal of responsibility and commitment. And let me point out our Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Kortnik, and not only will I be our SMC, I will also point out other young ministers, such as Mr Vrtovac's Minister of Infrastructure, and also the Minister of Brickler's King, these are really young politicians who have been given an opportunity in this government and have proven themselves well. For me, youth and unburden with the past, which I also take into account with the candidate for justice minister, is a real advantage. It is interesting, however, that these some of the findings that we have tried both on the committee and today are obvious to the future minister or to the candidate for minister that you submit those who have never actually been able to complete the law colleges only to complete the judicial examination and, at all hearings, should first put a number of people before their threshold and then advertise and talk about competence. It has also been said today that today's candidate for Minister Dikaucič is a bad start because the President of the Government did not present him here in the National Assembly. But you know what that proverb says, a bad start to a good end, and that is what I want for a candidate for a minister, so let him prove himself and prove himself successful in politics despite his youth. Of course, I will support him and show him that I mean it when it comes to giving young people a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija and will be followed by Gregor Perič. Here you go. Replica mags. Marko Koprivc first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. My colleague Mojca would like to replicate in this part when she spoke or apparently did not understand me correctly when I spoke about the experiences of the CV, about not presenting it. It's not that he's a young candidate. I think it's great that we have young policies in all areas, that young people are being promoted and put at the forefront in some way. The problem is that the candidate was repeatedly asked where he had worked in the past, where, where he worked, where he did not want to answer these questions. This, I think, is very incredible because I think it is right for citizens and citizens to know who their minister will be and what his past is. And the other thing is, it's a respected vice president. You have previously taken my word in a very undemocratic way, but I would ask that if you are so strict to me that you are also to your colleagues and colleagues from the SDS and please warn Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert that you should not grieve and yell uncultured [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u95	That's not a replica. [[…]] [[They're both talking at the same time.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u96	I don't know what kind of worshiper Kidrich is, and I don't know what kind of slaughterhouses, because it's an unworthy and unworthy Parliament. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u97	Comrade Koprivc, please do not violate the Rules of Procedure and do not violate the Rules of Procedure. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u98	So I ask you to have the same vats for everyone and to warn colleague Anjo Bah Žibert that this is inappropriate conduct in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u99	I also ask everyone else to ensure peace in the Chamber, especially those who use procedural or suggestion or replicas to stick to what is written in the Rules of Procedure and do not violate these things. We continue the debate. The word is given by Boštjan Koražija and will be followed by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u100	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. And I'm going to get to the SMC's first letter to Mrs Mojco Žnidarič when she said that she wanted more and more young experts in different fields to be supported. I fully agree, but even if the President of the Government were right now, he believed it and wanted to, I would come here today, support it her way, and it is true that an even younger candidate for the Minister of Justice is. And in such a case, I would expect him to come here to present him, to show him trust, and also to show confidence in his youth, his youth, or his expertise. But as for his expertise, or these things, which you have already had a lot of debate today, and I must also admit that I have listened very carefully and also processed his “hearing” and indeed the most human being at the beginning – I will not say that it is wrong, but I will ask questions of his, I will say a general willingness to save or also, I will say somewhere further into a better and better future of this justice. In fact, as I recall, he kept repeating this “insolvency” or insolvency, bankruptcy and these matters. In fact, it worked more on time than it did on “hearing” for the Minister of Economy or even for some State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy. And this is also very disturbing from this point of view, because we all know well and those who are also very concerned with bankruptcy or with the very subject of taking over, that the bankruptcy lobby is one of the most powerful lobbyes in Slovenia, which manages these financial flows and, otherwise, these bankruptcy procedures. And we've had this a while back, and I think it's about 10 years ago when it came to this lobbying or also to friends of these bankruptcys that shared the best bankruptcys or the most profitable bankruptcys or bankruptcys with which they are pretty much, I'm going to say one way or another. Now, sir, I will also get involved, let's say, given that the candidate has been proposed by a SMC party. [[…]] Nothing personal against the SMC party, but look, you have started very much, I will say casually in this Parliament with Dr. Mir Cerar, who became the Prime Minister and who is actually for him, I will say constitutional law or constitution itself of the Republic of Slovenia, was alpha and omega. And then you came back, nothing personal against Mr. Minister-designate again, but from experience, I would say that it would still be right for any of the other candidates, who have also been mentioned in the media, to make a profit from that earlier, to say this, or at least a candidate for this post of Minister of Justice. Again, when I speak of governments and on the left and on the right, it is important to note that we have so far had very distinguished ministers for justice, and on the right and on the left, if that is what you want, either way or in the middle. Look, you had Mr. Lovr Sturm. Is it true? It is true, 2004-2008, which is in fact Dr. Legal Sciences and former Constitutional Judge and Professor at the Ljubljana Faculty of Law. Then you also had in the second Janšev Government Mr. Senko Plitčanič. And it is said that I must admit that this especially surprised me and also regretted that, I will say, Mr President of the Government, whatever he sees things or whatever he interprets them, he has come with such a candidate for the Minister of Justice. In view of the experience or his history, which has shown in previous mandates or governments themselves, I will say so. And quite frankly, because I have also observed or listened very carefully to the debates on the right side of this House, I must admit that you have also not been the most 100 per cent and most confident that this candidate is the most appropriate or that you will not only be over the metal of rocks and rocks on the left side or on the opposition side, that there are also quite some critical thoughts or disciplines that have come from your side and I think it is justified. That's right, that's why we're here in the National Assembly to discuss or debate, and also to gather, then the best candidate, because I believe that if any government were already there, and if it came with, let's say, this would be the Government, the Left Government, I believe that we would have a lot of concerns, or also a lot of questions, or even a lot of questions, about why we came to this National Assembly with such a candidate to propose it. As I have already said, I would like to personally that in this National Assembly, because obviously there's something quite insidious about the fact that you don't really want the profession to be removed or removed from politics instead of the policy being the one that would allow professionals or experts to do so. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u101	Dear colleagues, please don't disturb the speaker when he speaks. Here you go, Mr. Korazia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Thank you for making some peace in the hall. As has already been said in this regard, I would expect that policy was that tool and also some kind of foundation of the profession that will make it really better and I will also say further development in the field of justice or in any other area, because I agree and will also return to the beginning of a little debate by Mrs Žnidarič. I fully agree that it is high time for this National Assembly and this country to take over young people will be told by capable experts, and who would actually be burdened with a lot of knowledge is indeed that we need generational cooperation, which is normal and what is right. The real elderly help the younger and the younger ones help the older ones and without it is not going to work, but if we do the same thing at home many times with our parliamentary groups, it is very good to say that one of them has been here for 30 years and it is more true, because in fact one has already begun to understand that they are not only part of the policy, but that the policy is the same as it is. Once again, I would really expect you, Mr President, to please take over as President and you will take the floor. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u103	Dear Members, once again please respect the speaker when he speaks and does not disturb him. Thank you very much. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u104	But I'm starting to work here so people will know that I mean it or that we really want to turn this Slovenia into a better place here, and we're not just going to jump into each other's words and yell at each other. I will not say that it is only time for cooperation, but it is time that you will have to spit into your hands and start to really change some things for the better and that is why the composition of the Government, which is currently not going to work and it is not going to work, and I also do not want this to happen in the future, that this is how it works in this country, because in fact one is really a little double speaking and you are thinking. On the one hand, say how to give young people power and opportunity, and on the other hand, when we talk about young people in cold blood, you vote against any matter that would make it possible for young people to live better, and let this be another policy, let's say, students, and I would really expect you to also seriously support things that will help young people or even our craftsmen who will really have to take responsibility, because in fact they have no other choice. In view of what has happened in the last year, they will still have years of work and opportunities to prove, because this country will need to be fundamentally not only changed, but improved, because in fact one thing has been happening for 30 years and more, but even in the last 30 years, things have been constantly spinning in some vicious circle and it has happened exactly what should not have happened. They became a constant, became a fact, and people became like those in sayings, or one of them came to terms with it. I personally will not, and believe me, that most young people in this Slovenia will not accept it either way I will say such a crying brother is out. Believe me, when this generation comes to power and comes very quickly I am very excited about this, because at last some things from the past will be past and past and I will also finally say out of this historic, I will say, some anger, a political one that has been happening for the past 30 years in Slovenia. And it's time for the young to get [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič has the word, but let the mags be prepared. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that this debate, which is coming to an end, has been extremely interesting, even for all the other people who will ever hope or dare to run at all, because they will strip themselves naked. But it can't be that very wrong, I think it's the most wrong and bad for all of us to conclude, so we're making some conclusions that have virtually no basis. In fact, if I say otherwise, in other words, it is here that, with such ease, it is misleading not to say a lie about individual specific circumstances, the business past of individuals, that it is something terrible. And I think the Slovenian public does not deserve such a low level of political culture in the National Assembly. Because if we say something, then we have to have some very solid and unsuspecting arguments, but not to say something in mind, but not to make something seem to us, or that something might be like that, but it really isn't. And that's why we don't have any evidence yet, we just have some impression or some current effect, we just make a connection and we say it is. If we do this in the National Assembly, we see a lot of the same in the media, how the public creates a variety of interpretations or what I think is true and what is not true. We also see virtually every day at the level of culture that we overcome. At the expense of candidate Dikaucic, we've heard a lot of things. And I actually understand it, and I also suggest to all those candidates for ministers and ministers that they disclose as little personal data as possible, especially employers, because I can't imagine what kind of accounts they would carry out here, I don't know, even with his current employer, who is clearly not one of those most profiled law firms that obviously has some kind of scar, in the SMC, we say that candidate Dikaucič does not come from any established law firm. It's obviously a unique thing, at least so far, because there's always been some kind of connection or some other connection, and one way or another, you have to have a backside, or you're too small a fish, and today we're always hearing that someone who hasn't confirmed himself in one way or another has nothing to look for, even in the ranks of ministers. After all, we are for young people, but for real young people, for those who have some appropriate political or some other pedigree, or rather not, and leave this game to those who are up to these things. I think that this is an extremely bad message that we are giving to the Slovenian public today, and we have given many of them. I have to say that what we're listening to is a rather sad and bad journey for all those who will come in here once, because we're dissuading people who are willing to do something good, who are willing to put their name, their face in order to move something in some direction. I believe that we all disagree with each other, one way or another, but it is the charm of democracy if we want it or if we understand it already in its basic purpose. But obviously there is no such basic understanding and also agreement as to the intention that the direction can change a little, that there cannot always be only one color of the government, that there can be another color of the government, I think there is a core of this problem in here today. If I go back to the candidate and to the individual insinuations we heard on his account. There was also a lot of flying on his practically proven, really, I don't know how to say this, links with, I don't know, Rock Snezic, about which are written very convincingly by individual portals used for accounting, politically, within our political space. Let me disappoint you that Mr Dikaucic does not know and have never met Mr Snezic. It also applies to other names that appeared in individual discussions, which then developed on some alleged tax whirlpool on certain chains of companies, and I do not know any other insinuations related to avoiding tax and the like. The names that have been exposed, the names of the companies that have been exposed, either today or on the Justice Committee, when the candidate himself had the opportunity to deny the connection and knowledge of these companies, any business or other contacts, even today, it is necessary to deny these insinuations. So these speculations, which are being done and this, in a way that we try to discredit someone, who, even from the point of view of the process, is running, because in fact it looks more than some political process, can't deny it, so I tell you that they don't hold this information, I've checked them with the candidate, and it seems very unfair to me that in this way we're doing some connections and characterizing someone, let's define them as some tax collector, as someone who encourages some tax collectors and I don't know what else. Now, those who may have a little more experience in the business world know that the times when there was one company and it worked have passed. Today we live in a much more dynamic environment where we have start-ups, scale-ups, and I don't know what else exists and this dynamic in this area is remarkable. Businesses are being set up, they go to some kind of retirement, they're quitting, they're reanimating, we've got a bunch of different practices, we've got a lot of "special purpose", these are companies that are set up for specific tasks, I don't know, joint ventures, real estate operations, financial operations and so on. [[Incomprehensible]] Now, who doesn't know who does this every day, but looks at it a little bit from a distance, and it seems to him that there might be something, then says practically, here it is, this is, no, but in the business world, which he would also like in Slovenia in a much more way than they know in the West, where, or by whom we follow example, these dynamics are much more. In our case, there is obviously one simple link between someone already in the process that we are carrying out here, even though we are the legislative branch of power, not the court, but sometimes we are the Constitutional Court, as it pleases, to define someone for [[sign for the end of the debate]] A criminal, a little less. So I would ask that in these discussions, we are much more reasonable, that we base our discussions on arguments and that we do not operate with people in this way. If we know anything, let's say we don't speculate. But I have to say that in, it was also some, some message, including SMC, even from ex-partners, the respect in here obviously isn't in here anymore. [[sign for the end of the debate]] But perhaps time will show who was right, who was wrong, but I must say that in the SMC we are grateful to someone or Mr Dikaucic for his courage and support. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u108	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I suggest that we interrupt this item today and continue it tomorrow. Today, in this national assembly, this National Assembly took note of some new facts that are not in favour of respect for legislation, and we have also been deprived of the position of Prime Minister in order to identify ourselves to all that we have heard today. There is a reasonable suspicion that companies whose owner or director was a candidate were involved in tax evasion and other irregularities. These are serious matters that the Prime Minister should define and that we must also discuss within the parliamentary groups. We therefore believe that, on the basis of Article 73, you can suspend this meeting, we continue it tomorrow, and at that time these speculations that he spoke about will be eliminated. We will get to know each other and the Prime Minister will also have time to define and support the candidate in writing or orally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u109	Dear colleague Golubovic, I will not interrupt this session. Indeed, after today's debate, I believe that those who are firmly determined to support or support the candidate of your position will not change their position. In view of the course of the meeting itself, it is also evident and given the time announced that even if the Prime Minister had arrived tomorrow he would no longer have the opportunity to further explain his proposal. On the other hand, I also note that this proposal does not withdraw. Well, it's still up to date, and we'll decide on it. I propose that we move on to the last debater and then to the decision-making process. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u110	President, thank you. I would like to highlight this debate today. I'm assessing it that somehow it was a rerun of that hearing from the Justice Committee. Regrettably, in the work where opposition Members have wasted a lot of insults on the candidate, they have been using denunciations, and in short the content has been less. These markings, as has been said, were, of course, unworthy of some cultural debate in this national assembly. They're more of an inn counter, but they're definitely not. Some have even drawn some total comparisons with the Patria trial and so on, but look at you there in fact, the players of this set actually got a strong earring by the Constitutional Court, so to remind you of these matters is essentially very counterproductive on your part. Even the fact that you spoke of this from the opposition species that you were different. With all the evidence you shared, you had the courage to say you were different. Your differences manifested themselves, distinguished opposition colleagues, at the beginning of 2020, where you left the country's helm. You left it at a time in the beginning of the worst health crisis in the history of Slovenia. That's your difference. And then she took over the country's control of capable, efficient government and here is really the difference, even the possible antidote in this country's leadership. With regard to the candidate Dikaucic himself, you were just talking about he had virtually nothing to say about. No, on the contrary, I listened carefully to him and that Mr Dikaucič actually had an opinion on every single thing. As I said before, the position was combed through all the judicial system and gave good insight into what he was planning to do. But it is true that you may be disturbed by his views when he spoke of the independence of the judiciary when he spoke of the need for a co-signature of the prosecutor in rejecting it. And I believe that some of you are in the way, but that doesn't mean that a respected candidate didn't have an opinion on what kind of thing. Then, when you talked a lot about the experience that the candidate doesn't have experience in the judicial department. Yes, I'm asking you nicely, but your Minister in your government, Mr. Sharca, has had concrete experience in managing the judicial department? Yeah, of course she didn't have any. So let's be a little polite here. And with regard to the boycott, he does not respond to the candidate regarding the European Delegated Prosecutors and our prosecutors. Either you've been sitting on your ears or you've deliberately ignored what the candidate has actually pointed out briefly but scurvyly. He stated that he was actually inclined or was pleased that Slovenia would also participate in this project of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, he also explained why he would not now state that this procedure for appointing European Delegated Prosecutors would then be repeated. When we had state prosecutors' reports here, the Secretary of State said that now the new administration would actually repeat this process of selection of candidates, so that things are de facto ongoing. There's nothing to worry about that this is some sort of insurmountable thing that's not going to work out. The procedure will run again, it will be transparent and these European Delegated Prosecutors will be determined. I mean, there's no fear here. Even when you were talking about how long he's been waiting for the D.A.'s appointment. Also here, Mr Dikaucič, the candidate for the Minister of Justice, has in fact said explicitly that he would commit himself to appointing state prosecutors as soon as possible. That's what he said on "hearing". You must have heard that. And now, look, let's be as common human as we are, and I would say to such a candidate that I would say bravely that he would actually sit on this hot table of ministers, that he would start working to do good, that he would work effectively. Now, in this turbulent time, to take on a truly important function such as a definitive justice resort, it is a matter of greeting, not confusing it with all possible and impossible expressions. And that's actually depressed doing. So here, personally as the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, of course, to a candidate in this place in addition to courage, we also tell him that once again we acknowledge that his presentation has been exhaustive, it has been comprehensive, and this in fact marks him as a quality and competent candidate. [[…]] Exactly, this exhausted “hearing” puts him in this position. And that is why today this candidate will also be confirmed as a justice minister and will continue to lead Slovenia with the government crew to new success stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u111	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. So I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the candidate's proposal for a minister of justice. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "For the Minister of Justice, the name is Marjan Dikaucič." We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 41. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that Marjan Dikaucič is appointed Minister of Justice. [[Applause]] I ask the newly appointed minister to join us and to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u112	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u113	I congratulate the Minister of Government on his appointment and wish him a successful discharge of his duties. Would you like to talk to the National Assembly, Mr. Secretary? [[Yeah.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your support and I am aware of the responsibility you have given me by appointing a minister. Now, of course, serious work begins tonight. Thanks again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY – CONDITIONAL LIST FOR THE ELECTION OF TWO MEMBERS OF THE COURT COUNCIL. On 26 May 2021, on the basis of Article 131 of the Constitution, the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, and on the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 16 of the Law on the Council of Justice, submitted to the Assembly a candidate list for the election of two members of the Council of Justice, on which four candidates were proposed: Dr Urška Kežmah, Andrej Razdrich, Dr. Jorge Sladič and Dr. Viktorija Žnidaršič Skubic. I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac, for further explanation of the candidate list.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u116	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with the Constitution, the President of the Republic elected candidates for members of the Judicial Council from among university professors of law, lawyers and other lawyers. At the invitation and at the request of the candidates of the Faculty of Law at the University of Ljubljana and Maribor, the Society for Constitutional Law, the Association of Associations of Lawyers of Slovenia, the Bar of Slovenia, the Notary Chamber of Slovenia and the Novi University of Novi Gorica, the President of the Republic received five applications. As already stated in the introduction, the President of the Republic listed four candidates and candidates, Dr Ursko Kezmah, Mr Andrej Razdrich, doc. Dr. Jorg Sladič and Prof. Viktorio Žnidaršič Skobic. On 7 June, all four candidates and candidates also presented themselves to the public. Dr. Urška Kežmah is a lawyer at Kežmah Lawyer's Office in Maribor, and has been proposed by the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor and the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. Dr. Kezhmahova is a digitisation specialist and has extensive knowledge and experience in the field of personal data protection. In addition to her legal profession, the Faculty of Law at the University of Maribor has a hallowed title of scientific cooperation, and until 2018 she was a district judge and head of the legal department and vice-president of the District Court in Maribor. The candidate is awarded a wide range of professional work and experience both in the judicial and legal functions and in the academic field. Mr Andrej Razdrich is a lawyer at the Razdrich Lawyer's Office in Ljubljana, proposed by the Slovenian Bar Association as a candidate for a member of the Judicial Council. Mr Razdrich is a long-standing lawyer with extensive experience in various legal areas, particularly dealing with matters of legal ethics, he is the President of the Commission for the Bar and one of the central experts in the field of mediation. As a selected mediator, he participated in a series of demanding and reverberative mediations. He was one of the founders of the Mediation Centre at the Bar of Slovenia, a member of the Council for Alternative Dispute Resolution at the Ministry of Justice and also a responsible editor of the Journal of the Bar of Slovenia since 2011. Professor Dr. Jorge Sladič is a higher education teacher at the European Faculty of Law of the New University of Nova Gorica, which she also proposed. Doc. Dr. Jorga Sladič as a professor of international and European law at the European Faculty of Law, as an associate at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor for the field of international and European law, and as a lawyer, he excels in various legal fields. From 2004 to 2007, he also worked as a legal adviser in the Court of Justice of the European Communities. He is a member of the European Commission expert group on the modernisation of judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters and is the author of numerous discussions on the rule of law at home and abroad. Prof. Dr. Viktori Žnidaršič Skubic is a regular professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, proposed by the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana and the Association of Associations of Lawyers of Slovenia. In the Faculty of Law, there is a contractor and carrier or co-owner of civil law subjects, and it works in other fields as well. She was a member of the Interdepartmental Working Group for the preparation of proposals for systemic solutions in the field of family relations and child protection at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Equal Opportunities, member of the Working Group for the preparation of the Family Code and the Working Group, which drafted a proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility and insemination procedures with biomedical assistance. Dr. Viktorija Žnidaršič Skubic participates in many scientific and professional meetings and is the author of numerous scientific and professional articles published in prominent domestic and foreign magazines. The President of the Republic estimates that, on the basis of the expertise, work and experience of candidates and candidates in various legal areas, such as the Constitution, the proposed candidate list allows Members and Members of the National Assembly to choose from them two members of the Slovenian Council of Justice, who will perform this important function of the Ombudsman and the independence of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The candidate list was treated as a parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote to elect two members of the Council. The third and fourth paragraphs of Article 16 of the Law of the Court of Justice provide that the President of the Republic shall submit to the National Assembly a candidate list on which the proposed number of candidates must be greater than the number of members elected but not more than twice as many as the number of members elected. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 16 of the Law on the Council of Justice, the election of members of the Council of Justice elected by the National Assembly shall be kept secret. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are Franc Breznik – SDS, Andreja Zabret – LMŠ, Boštjan Koražija – Levica, Blaž Pavlin – Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats, and I am also the chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. So we are moving to a vote on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. The vote is under way. We're voting on the commission. 82 Members and Members are present. It was 81 votes against 1. [[The vote was 82.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber shall be served with a message to Members and Members by each Member coming to the table of the President and giving its name and surname. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to keep the distance recommended when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered in accordance with the preventive measures. A vote shall be taken by surrounding the number in front of the name of the candidate or candidate for which the vote shall be taken. He's voting for two candidates. The vote, which will surround more than two numbers before the names of the proposed candidates or candidates, will be invalid. In accordance with Article 91, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, an unfulfilled vote and a vote from which the Member's will will not be made clear will be invalid. However, a voice will be valid, with fewer than two numbers surrounding them before the names of the proposed candidates or candidates. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 196 in conjunction with the third paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure, those two candidates for whom the majority of Members who deliver valid votes will be elected and will receive the maximum number of votes. If the two candidates do not receive the required majority in the first vote, a second vote shall be taken, which shall vote on as many candidates as is necessary. The second vote shall vote on those candidates who have obtained the most votes in the first vote. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths, Members and Members of Parliament will put the completed votes in the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we move to a secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which provides that during a secret vote in the Chamber persons who are not voting shall not have access to the Chamber, so I call upon those persons to leave the Chamber at that time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 6:45 p.m. and will continue until 7 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 7.40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 18.39.) (The sitting resumed at 7.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u118	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned 2nd point and the meeting and the consideration of the candidate list for the elected two members of the Council of Justice. Let me read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the two elected members of the Council of Justice. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 15 June 2021. 87 ballots were distributed, 87 ballots were delivered. There were two ballots invalid. There were 85 valid ballots. The candidates received the following number of votes from Dr. Urška Kežmah 75, Andrej Razdrich 42 votes, Dr. York Sladič 1st vote, Dr. Viktorija Žnidaršič Skubic 42 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes cast by the Members who gave valid votes for a member of the Court of Justice, Dr Urška Kezmah is elected. Since both members of the Council have not been elected in the first vote, only one member has been elected and another member has to be elected, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 196 of the Rules of Procedure concerning candidates who have not obtained the necessary majority in the first vote, we will take a second vote. In accordance with that provision of the Rules of Procedure, the second vote will take place on the number of candidates as far as it is necessary to elect the holders of functions, namely the members of the Council of Justice, this is about one candidate. The vote will take place on the candidate who obtained the highest number of votes in the first vote. Since, in the first vote, the two candidates obtained the same second highest number of votes in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure, the selection of candidates for re-election between candidates with the same number of votes shall be determined by drawing. The same number of votes was won by Andrej Razdrich and Dr. Viktori Žnidaršič, 42 votes in favour. The draw was intended to include candidate Andrej Razdrich in the second round of voting. We are moving on to the second round of voting for the election of two members of the Council of Justice. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a vote shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the table of the President giving his name and surname. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to keep the recommended distance between them when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered in accordance with preventive measures. It shall be voted on by surrounding itself for or by the ports on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. The candidate will be elected if he is voted on by the majority of the Members who will give the votes in force. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Please, Members of Parliament and Members, who will assist me in the vote to report to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will therefore begin at 19.55 in 10 minutes and will last until 20.10. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 20.25. (The sitting was suspended at 7.44 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 20.25.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-15-SDZ8-Izredna-77.ana.u119	Dear fellows! We shall proceed with the suspension of the second point and the meeting, and with the consideration of the candidate list for the election of two members of the Judicial Council. Let me read the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the election of two members of the Judicial Council. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 15 June 2021. 76 ballots were distributed, 76 ballots were delivered. Three votes were invalid, 73 votes were valid. 42 members voted against. 31 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the second vote, Andrej Razdrich was elected as a member of the Judicial Council by the majority of the votes cast by the Members who gave the votes in force. Congratulations to the elected members of the Judicial Council. I wish them much success in their duties. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 77th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
