ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič by 12 p.m., Masha Kociper, Dr. Franc Trček, Ivan Hršak and Mag. Branislav Rajić. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT LEGISLATION LEGISLATION. The draft law was tabled by a group of 16 Members and Members with the first signed Janjo Slug. At its 34th meeting, on 7 October 2021, the Commission considered the mandate-holder as the working body. Since the Commission did not adopt the articles of the bill after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law at the working body meeting was completed. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First, Tina Heferle will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good morning, everyone! Being a Member means having a special responsibility both to the function and to the people who elected us. Especially since we are directly elected representatives of the people, we should be aware whether we recognize ourselves or not that our examples are drawing. The fact is that a Member must respect the limitations that its function brings. Among other things, restrictions on the exercise of gainful activities and restrictions on the performance of other functions. For us in LMŠ, it's something self-inflicted. However, since this is also a matter of marriage, which is currently somewhat confused and, as such, abusive, and in our view the amendment was unfortunately inappropriate, it would be right to correct itself in future matters in such a way as to make it clear and unequivocal for those for whom the restriction of the function of a Member is not so self-sufficient. However, for the LMŠ Group, it is also self-evident that laws in force in our country are respected or that there is a political culture that requires responsibility from individual policies when certain circumstances arise. However, as long as we have a government in our country that does not implement its legal obligations and without shame violates, for example, the STA Act, as long as we have a government that does not respect the hierarchy of legal acts and imposes accounting standards over the law, or as long as we have a Minister of Justice in our country who is under criminal investigation for the crime of tax evasion, or as long as we have, for example, a minister who advises his friends from the economy how to circumvent legislation and avoid paying taxes, respected colleagues and colleagues while in our country, I fear that the harmonisation of the Law on Members with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is a minor problem for our society.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u4	Vice President, thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! There is probably no one among us who does not know that the current regime for the incompatibility of the function of a Member by carrying out a gainful activity governed by the Law on Members on the one hand and, on the other hand, by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, is inconsistent and incompatible. The legal profession, including our legal and legal service, has warned us of this several times. Nor is it possible to ignore the opinions and recommendations of the Commission on anti-corruption from 2019, which state that it is necessary for a Member to address the issue of non-compatibilities in the exercise of the function of a Member by virtue of a gainful activity, in particular and unequivocally. Unfortunately, to this day we have not been able to do so. I would like to point out that, in assessing specific situations, the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption require not only the obligation of professional officials to be incompatible with the performance of their duties and the prohibition of membership and activities, but also the procedure for assessing the incompatibility of the performance of functions and the prohibition of membership and activities and the consequences for directly-loved officials provided for in Article 29 of the Act. This means that the Commission cannot simply identify the facts that will be the basis for the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission in matters relating to the determination of the incompatibility of a Member's function, but must decide in full, that is, within the framework of the provisions or situations governed by the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption and the Law on Members explicitly does not." End of statement. The implementation of the legislation has therefore shown that the Institute for the Incompatibilities of Functions and the Institute for the Prohibition of the Conduct of Acquisition Activities for Members is not clearly and unequivocally regulated. On the other hand, we have the view that for other public officials, appointed as well as loved ones, as regards the incompatibilities of functions and the prohibition of the exercise of activities in force is a uniform and clear regulation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We have therefore proposed substantive solutions to the amendment of the Law on Members, which on the one hand would eliminate the existing non-coherent and mutually incompatible regime and, on the other hand, would lead to a more legally comparable position of Members and Members in dealing with the potential incompatibility of the function or in carrying out other activities than other public officials. Since the proposal for a law on the Mandate-Election Commission has not received sufficient support, today we can only conclude that we have missed the opportunity to deal with these issues more clearly and that these issues will remain legally inconclusive and again a field of different interpretations and unfortunately also a political struggle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. The history of inappropriate regulation of the incompatibility of the function for a Member is old. The law we have clearly states that the function of a Member is incompatible with another public function and with the exercise of a gainful activity. The result is the termination of the term of office. Normal, logical. But there is a complication to the question of who should take the mandate of a Member and in what way. That's something we haven't been able to solve. When we had the last case of Mr Ferenc Horvath on the table, we insisted in Levica that the National Assembly should only find out that his mandate had ceased, but we were alone in our position, most of the others were excuses for how unclear we have a law. The final agreement on this controversy was to prepare an appropriate amendment to the law that would regulate the incompatibility of the function and the termination of the mandate in such cases. But instead of a solution that would clearly establish that the function of a Member is incompatible with other functions and that a Member should not engage in gainful activities, we are now witnessing for the second time an attempt to delete the provisions on incompatibility simply. We'd solve the problem by pretending it doesn't exist. If a Member had been a director of a private enterprise in addition to his office, for example, he would not have lost the function of a Member after such arrangements. Only during the simultaneous sitting on two chairs would he receive a lower salary. We already have a problem with lobbyists taking the hooks of some parliamentary groups. We have the Prime Minister of the Government playing golf with the biggest lobbyists and actors from the most resilient corruption affairs in the health sector. Some Members are already involved in not such a good-looking business and want to boast about some leisure function or activity. Now, like garlic on a cake, the Unbound and the SD, this state would be legalized. Ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing more than an invasion of private capital into Parliament, in the public interest. It's the legalization of corruption. In this way, Parliament is increasingly becoming an interest association of the richest and most privileged and is moving away from its function as a representative of the people. Under this law, there would be Members of Parliament, who would simultaneously be directors of pharmaceutical multinationals, and companies winning tenders would have different lobbyists. Why not? Such a change would allow them to do just that. Of course, the idea is completely bizarre. It is even more unimaginable that SD and unrelated are represented, not SDS. The SD and the Non-Aligned Members. Here we can ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, whether you have taken the signing of an approval agreement seriously. Are we going to make a different government after the next election, or are we just going to get another government in a different dress that will continue with the corruption practices of the government of Janez Janša? It is therefore necessary to explain what is happening here today in order for the Slovenian public to know. The Law on Members provides that a Member shall not carry out a gainful activity which, by law, is incompatible with the exercise of a public function. As a result, the termination of the mandate is envisaged in the event of the crossing of the two. That is to say, if a Member does not cease to pursue a gainful activity within three months of his or her appointment or if, after his or her appointment, he or she begins to pursue a gainful activity, he or she should terminate his or her term of office. Pike's over. But what do Members of the Unbound and SD suggest? That these consequences are simply deleted. If the Member becomes the Director of Rotis, who supplies the Patriage, or if this continues despite the election, he will receive only the principal's salary and not the Member's. He will be able to decide, for example, on the armament of the Slovenian Army and on the purchase of new armory. The Member could also be Director of the Slovenian branch of Alstoma, who would simultaneously decide on the guarantee of TEŠ 6 and the increase in the investment price. At a time when there is no meeting of the National Assembly, the Member could also lead a tax evasion company in Bosnia and the Finance Committee would point out that tax legislation is okay. It is totally unimaginable, but after this legal amendment, it would become legal. Not only is it an unworthy lobbyist measure, but it is also an unconstitutional measure. Four pages of this was pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. As can be seen from the position of the Left Group, we oppose this bill. We're in the past, and we're in the past, and we're in the past, and we're in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. There will be no voting on the law. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members' obligations and rights are governed by the Law on Members, which was adopted in 1992 and so far has been amended five times, most recently in 2012. The position of Members in the National Assembly shall be determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in more detail by the Law on Members and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Law on Members also affects several other laws, including the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the second paragraph of Article 82, provides, inter alia, that the law provides for the incompatibility of the function of a Member with other functions and activities. On this basis, the irreconcilability of a Member's function with other functions and activities is governed by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption as a system law and the Law on Members as a special provision. With the current special regime of incompatibility in the Law on Members and the Systemic Regulation in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, it is therefore not clear what procedure for determining incompatibility and what sanctions apply to Members. In New Slovenia, we believe that it is necessary to amend and establish a clear and legal system-wide regulation of the area of incompatibility for Members, but this is not in the proposal for a law. The Law on Members should determine how the mandate should be terminated, for example within the Mandate-Election Commission, and not transfer the powers to the PSC where there is no possibility of taking the mandate at all. In the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, the financial penalty or withdrawal of a payment which would have been incurred by a Member in carrying out an incompatible activity with a function is unconstitutional. That is why we do not support it in New Slovenia. The proposed solution could also mean that someone could potentially perform a function while receiving a payment several times higher than the Member's salary and thus sit in two chairs at the same time. In Novi Slovenija, we do not want Members of the oligarchy to work in Parliament, but it has the incompatibilities of carrying out activities that are incompatible with the function of the Member as a result of the termination of the mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! The draft law, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the SD Group of Members of the Parliament, wanted to cut into the regulation of the incompatibility of the function of the Member with a gainful activity and the prohibition of membership and activities for Members, with a view to regulating the issue so that the legal provisions could be aligned with those regulated by the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. The basic purpose of the applicants can be welcomed as the fact that the laws are partly in conflict within the meaning of the procedures followed by certain events is not clear enough. It is particularly problematic for severe sanctions, such as the withdrawal of a mandate. Almost every mandate will bring about a different interpretation of existing legislation. This time, too, there is no exception. In every two cases, a number of questions and dilemmas were raised, followed by several debates. There is no doubt that these questions require our consideration and also require legislative changes in the way that things are clear and unequivocal. In this light, we welcome the efforts of investors. We also welcome their contribution to resolving the issue in the sense that their solutions have opened up further reflection. After all, the Legislative and Legal Service has warned about what is possible and what would not be in conformity with our Constitution, so which direction should we move. Nevertheless, we in the SAB have assessed that the solutions proposed are not the most appropriate. If the proposal were adopted, Members would be fully subject to the substantive and procedural provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. However, we believe that this is not the right solution and that the Law on Members should be maintained as lex specialis. In its broad, four-page opinion, the legislative and legal service warned and justified why such a solution would be unconstitutional. This composition of the National Assembly has already included a working group dealing with the reform of the Law on Members. We think it would be wise to revive the group and try again to find the right solutions. However, we are sure that the Law on Members must remain lex specialis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u12	In opening, I would like to express my regret that the mandate-voluntary commission has not supported the proposal of the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of the SD that an independent and independent body responsible for ensuring the integrity of the public sector, namely the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, should decide on the incompatibilities of the parliamentary group of non-aligned Members and Members of the SD, and on the additional work that is acceptable to Members. In this mandate, the National Assembly has yet to conclude two cases of infringements of the integrity of Members' conduct, one of which regarding the incompatibility of the Member's and management functions in the company, since the Member has complained to the Administrative Court and the other, the Mandate-voluntary Commission, to a Member who has not informed of his additional work or of his role as coach at the March European Football Championship for young people under 21 years of age, has issued a play and made a recommendation. In both cases, the regime under which Members decide on the fate of their fellow Members has proved to be inappropriate. In addition, in the first case of the incompatibility of the Member State and the management function in the company, the National Assembly or the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption were also involved in a dispute with the anti-corruption Commission or in the transfer of responsibility between one authority and another. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of the Parliament, we have already announced at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which decided on the case of Mr Jewan, the abolition of the mutual non-compliance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and the Law on Members. The fundamental objective of the novel was to fully establish a system-wide regime for Members in this area under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The draft law further deleted the special exemption from the prohibition on the exercise of a gainful activity for Members, which would also establish a regime in the field of complementary work under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The exceptions are essential in the Law on Members, which means that Members are in an unequal position under the applicable law compared to other officials, including ministers in the executive branch. Procedures relating to non-compatibilities and to those exceptions would, in our proposal, also lead the KPC as an independent and independent body, following the objectiveness and impartiality of the decision-making process. The proposed solutions were also supported by the KPK, which recommended the amendment of legislation on the basis of the above-mentioned complications to the National Assembly. It is the opinion and the report of the PSC of 31 January 2019, which, inter alia, stated that it is necessary for Members to organise this institution in a concrete and unequivocal manner and that the Law on Members should be amended or supplemented accordingly, by the regulation of the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption making sense. In the last interview for one of the media on 25 October this year, in response to the journalist's question, "what is happening with your initiative to change the legislation in order to uniformly regulate the incompatibility of functions", KPK President Robert Šumi expressed regret that the amendment of the law did not receive support. He added that there has been no substantive response from the government since May when they took the initiative. In the National Assembly, some Members and Members proposed an appropriate amendment, but the novel did not receive sufficient support. In past discussions, except this time, when this was really the case, the majority of parliamentary groups agreed on the need to amend the Law on Members at the principal level. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has not objected to the proposed solutions, except for the penalty of withdrawing a Member's salary in violation of the law. However, the debate has shown that only the proponents support the proposed solution. The activities that are now identified as incompatible would, as such, be clearly further defined after the amendment and would not be allowed to be carried out by Members. But also the sanctions imposed by the Law on Members, which would be replaced by a public warning, we would like to point out that it is not enforceable. It has been clear that we are aware of this, but when there is a concrete proposal on the table that the KPK should decide on our fate, most prefer to remain in the safe protection of the MVK. This does not, of course, contribute to enhancing the reputation of Members and Members of the public and, in our opinion, does not enhance the reputation of the National Assembly as the highest legislative body in Slovenia, which, by adopting laws, lays down standards of public sector integrity for all, except for themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u14	The Honourable Vice President and all present! The proposal followed by the drafters of this Act to decide whether the KPK should carry out an additional part of the Members is logical. The Anti-Corruption Commission should be abolished. The reason for this opinion is that they have only been working for you since 1. 1. to 31. 1. In the year, that is, at a time when Members and Officials must send them forecasts, no matter what we have acquired or resold in a year. We advocate that Members should not carry out any additional work in addition to their functions. Exceptions should only apply to Members who could have lost their license if they had stopped doing their work. Members of Parliament are fully engaged in our work. The work takes place not only in the National Assembly’s seat, but mainly among voters on the ground. The work done by some in the mission is condemned, as it does not seem ethical to us. We agree with the proposaler that the law on Members should be re-organized. However, not in the direction proposed. The Member's salary is a constitutional category in Article 95. In view of the fact that the applicants propose to pay Members would not belong, if they are engaged in a professional or other activity, to a constitutional decision. By means of a proposal that violates the explicit provisions of the Constitution, all the borders of the rule of law have been crossed, and it is those who have the most to say about the legality of the functioning of this government during the covida-19 epidemic. The big question is how it would have worked in the last year and a half if the government had signed this novel. In view of their proposals we have before us, it is more than obvious that they would be acting unlawfully and unconstitutionally. This novel has revealed their ignorance of constitutional matter. As I have already mentioned, in the Slovenian National Party Group we do not support the additional work done by some Members, and we stand in the position that the Member is solely a Member. He has more than enough work to do, and we are also paid for our work. We are the only Members still subject to the old provisions of Zuif. It would make sense, however, for journalists to finally comply with their code and start their research journalism profession. It would be good to report on which Member is doing the extra work, what he is doing, how much he is getting paid for it, how many hours to devote to his work and to the public have also presented a report on what they have been doing. Certain Members have ratings in the majority media and are therefore not listed. The news of the fifth part of the Members is extremely egregious or not at all, which is very sad. Journalists are present daily in the National Assembly, know the situation and do not report it or report it, at least not in a way that investigates matters to the point of accuracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Tomaž Lisec. There's no MP, so we're closing. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, it is on a defensive proposal for a decision to establish a single higher education institute of a higher school for the management of the village of Gram a new place. The draft decree was tabled by the 37 Members and Members with the first signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Tomaž Lisc. There's no MP. At its 22nd meeting, on 30 September 2021, the draft decree considered the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Colleagues and Colleagues! At its 22nd meeting, on 30 September 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the proposal for a decree establishing a separate Higher Education Institute for Rural Management of the Grm Novo mesto, submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. Following the initial presentation of the representative of the proposaler, the Ministry said that the Government had adopted a decision in August on the intention to establish a public university institution based in Novi Grad. The letter of intent to participate in this university was also given at the Grm Novo Mesto High School of Rural Management. If there is a transformation of an existing institution, the Ministry shall have doubts as to what this means for that decision. He explained that the goal is to establish one as perfect university as possible, not two universities and another single institution. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was forwarded to the Committee, which examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. Her representative said that state universities and state universities were a constitutional category and that the establishment of such universities must be legally and legally justified. She stressed the need to assess whether the higher education system in the Republic of Slovenia already provides opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education and that the objectives of higher education, such as quality, diversity and accessibility, should also be taken into account, ensuring equality before the law, while ensuring the internal and international comparability of higher education. It also drew attention to the relevant case-law of the Constitutional Court and to the Law on Higher Education, which is important from a legal point of view. With regard to the proposed amendments, she said that they did not address the comments made by the Legal and Legal Service in its written opinion to individual articles. In the debate, some members of the Committee expressed their support for the proposal for a decree. They pointed out their support for the decentralisation of Slovenia, including the establishment of universities in various parts of the country. In their view, it would be good to have a university in the New City as well, and the attempt to establish a public college is a step towards this. Other members announced that they would not support the decision and pointed out that in 2018 the Ministry opposed the establishment and funding of the institution from public funds, as they assessed that such study content was widely provided within the public network. They explained that the establishment of the Institute is not supported by experts from the Biotechnical Faculty, because they believe that the study programmes for agriculture are already too much. They considered that, due to the lack of admission to assistance in financing the programme, the country was being called for, although the programme was already widely provided within the existing public network. Some members also pointed out that the proposal for a decision establishing a higher education institution, supported by appropriate arguments and justifications, should be prepared by the Government and not by Members. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 5, 7, 8 and 9 of the SDS, NSI and SMC. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. Thus, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended draft decree, which forms an integral part of the report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dr Mitja Slavinec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, will present the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u18	Dear Members, the rest of you! At the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, we closely monitor the activities related to tertiary education and the higher education system in the New Town and the surrounding area, and we reiterate that on 26 August the Government adopted a decision on the establishment and the letter of intent was also signed by the Gram, the public university. Because of this, as the Chairman of the Committee has already pointed out, we now have a certain duality that we want to draw attention to. We also want to link everything in this environment, or at least most of those higher education initiatives, which can thus ensure synergies, the interconnection of all higher education systems and institutions, and thus also, on the one hand, value tertiary education in that space and ensure as much quality as possible; in particular, this one must be our important objective. For this reason, we remain concerned with the question of what this establishment would mean in terms of pursuing the objectives mentioned above. At the same time, we find that there is already a private university in New Town, which is accredited, has a thousand plus students. We also point out that it would also be useful to link a private university, all the colleges or higher education programmes implemented there, with this initiative created by these three colleges. Especially since there are now relatively few students at the Grm High School, we invite them to reconsider how they can provide tertiary education as rationally as possible throughout Slovenia and in the New Town region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Gregor Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u20	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The Coalition Members have tabled a motion for a decree in the legislative process to transform the private Rural Management School of the Grm Novo Mesto into a public institution. The newly established public office would thus also be entitled to state, budgetary and, in particular, our tax money. The Gram Novo Mesto High School was established for the purposes of education and training in the field of science on living nature, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, environmental protection and business and administrative science. They have developed a higher education curriculum for first-degree rural management. For many years, she has been working to fund her study programme with only ten students enrolled in the new study year. Social Democrats support a quality education system, for the country must create opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education. One reason is why the Social Democrats do not support this concrete proposal. In our view, it is another political, potential corruption fracturing of the SDS party and its fellow students in higher education. First of all, the proposal for a decree came from the coalition Members and not the profession. Thus, no professional and in-depth discussion with the general public and no analysis of whether our country needs a new rural management school has been carried out on the proposal. Moreover, experts say that we already have too many agricultural higher education programmes in Slovenia. In addition, on 26 August 2021, the Government adopted a decision on the intention to establish a public higher education institution based in New Town, namely the establishment of a fourth public university in New Town. In fact, two parallel procedures are now under way with this proposal to transform the Grim into a public institution, which are somehow excluded, as was pointed out by both the representative of the Ministry of Education and the mayor of the New City on the competent education committee. Secondly, the former even first dean of this institution, which in some ways also forced the establishment of this school in 2011, is the current Minister of Agriculture Jože Podgoršek, who has been working very hard for some time to become a public institution. Probably so that after the fall of this government, he could re-engage there. The director of the Gram Tone Hrovat Institute, the state councillor and the visible supporter of the new right party We connect Slovenia, and the president of the SLS Marjan Podobnik party actively participates with Thunder. Because of all the names listed, closely linked to the current authority, we are rightly suspected of conflict of interest or even suspicion of corruption. Clearly, only a handful of people who want to take a personal advantage of the establishment or transformation of the institution want to do so. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also expressed the view that the proposal to establish an act for the Grim of Slovenia Novo mesto is significantly different from the founding acts of the already established universities and higher education institutions and that such proposed regulation is questionable in terms of equality before the law and autonomy of the university and higher schools. Finally, when I quote the former Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Stanek Pejovnik, who said in one sentence: “The Grm Novo Mesto High School for Rural Management, which currently has only 10 students in all three years, expects a short decision to be funded by the state; it is a handball, with political bots supported by intervention.” For all of this, the Social Democrats will not be supported by the motion for a decree. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the current government, Minister of Agriculture Jože Podgoršek has the opportunity to sullow his Grm High School on a state nursery. This is possible because of the power ratio and the voting machine on the Education Committee. On this news we have already written in Levica, quote: « Members cannot, without concrete analyses and studies of justification, propose a decision establishing a higher education institution. It's scabbage. Mayor Gregor Macedoni also invited us and suggested that we freeze the decision until the process of establishing a university in New Town, which would be chaired by Mr Borut Rončević, a government favourite, is completed. Well, we listened to them, and in Levica we proposed an amendment that the decree in question should enter into force in 100 years, which is 2122. In doing so, we want to stop the professionally unwarranted and politically and interestingly motivated establishment of publicly funded educational institutions. The establishment of a public educational institution by a decree imposed by members of the coalition, on which we have not received the opinion of the Government, nor is it supported by the Ministry of Education, nor is it professionally justified. There is a suspicion that the higher education institution is not established on the basis of the needs of the public education system or the needs of the population, but rather on the basis of the political purchases and private interests of the leading politicians. There is no reason for public funding for this study. The same text of the decree establishing the Independent Higher Education Institute of Grm Novo mesto was tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group at the time of the intervention of current Minister of Agriculture, Jože Podgorška, but was not confirmed by the National Assembly at the time. However, the Ministry of Education in Cerar's Government at the time assessed that such study content was widely provided within a public network or within two public universities, so there is no need to establish a new institution. The explanation of the proposal is also flawed and misleading, as it is based on the old data contained in the above-mentioned decree. We can read that 30 students have been enrolled at this university this academic year, but that is not true. Next. In the absence of professional arguments for the establishment of an institution, obvious political connections cannot be overlooked. Among the lecturers and co-workers of this high school are SLS President Marjana Podobnik, a long-standing influential member of the SLS Marjan Maučec, Vice-President of New Slovenia Vida Čadonic Špelič and current Minister of Agriculture Jože Podgoršek, who was the first dean with full powers. The Minister was co-founder of the Higher School of Grams, employed between 2004 and 2018, today as a professor in six subjects, which is mostly among all teaching staff. As an official contact for students, however, the government e-mail address is given. During all the years he led the school, Podgoršek sought its state funding, although, as it is said, there are no valid reasons for this. Even the Ministry of Education opposed the establishment. This is also the case in this case, only with this difference that, despite the absence of professional reasons and clearly expressed public needs for adoption, there is a majority in the National Assembly. That such a way of taking decisions on the establishment of institutions, i.e. without adequate explanation, by Members is problematic, has also been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has pointed out that an assessment or higher education system is needed in the Republic of Slovenia already provides an opportunity for citizens to receive appropriate education or these options are not guaranteed. The assessment of this option may be shown by the number of universities and independent higher education institutions and higher education institutions and the number of accredited study programmes that are publicly valid. The creation of higher education institutions and the creation of opportunities for education must also take into account objectives such as quality, diversity, accessibility that ensure equality before the law, while ensuring the internal and international comparability of higher education. That is why, in the Levica Group, we propose that the proposed institution, in terms of the development of the higher education system in the near future, will not be established and in a hundred years Slovenia will be able to manage such a set that will not only take care of its own benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u24	Hello again. Today we are discussing the proposal for a decree establishing a separate Higher Education Institute for Rural Management, Grm Novo mesto, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly. For a study at Grm Novo mesto High School for Rural Management, students have to pay their tuition, which is an obstacle for a lot of students to choose to enroll in this school. This part of the payment also makes young people more likely to enter and continue their studies at the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology in Ljubljana or the Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystemic Sciences in Maribor, where they receive a similar education, but not special knowledge and practical learning. Many young people, however, do not decide to continue their studies because of distance and payment of student homes. It is true that in Novi Slovenija we have been drawing attention to the field of young people who choose the profession of farmer or farmer in the countryside for many years. This is not recognised either in deficit scholarships or in the possibility of higher education. The opportunity for young people to learn from rural governance is of great importance in the practical work and management of the Grm Novo Mesto Rural Management School. This is also confirmed by the admission or decision of students and students to carry out the prescribed compulsory practice in the town of Novo mesto, as there are some of the most skilled experts who are indeed covering the whole area of agriculture. This is from cattle, winery, agriculture, agriculture, as well as crops of winter cereals, spring cereals, plowing, computer program management, sowing, horse breeding, poultry breeding, rabbits, short knowledge of real rural governance and life with nature. Knowledge and governance of the countryside will certainly be increasingly important in the future. Knowing how to collide, when to sow, will appear to be in future knowledge that will count for something. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the decree establishing a public higher education institution is only a new step to the university in Novi mesto, so we will support the New Slovenia proposal for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u26	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a decree before us, aimed at transforming the private higher education institution into a public institution, makes it difficult for us to agree in the SAB Group. The decree establishing the independent higher education institution of the Grm Novo mesto High School for Rural Management proposed what a group of MPs and members of the coalition with the SDS party at the head. Let me mention that this is a very unusual practice, which is clearly characteristic of this party, because we also witnessed a similar story in the establishment of the Faculty of Information Studies in New Town ten years ago. There could also be a major conflict of interest in the transformation of the institution. The former dean of this institution is the current Minister of Agriculture, who, following the testimony of some media, is very committed to the state funding of this private institution. We are justifiably asking whether, after the fall of this government, it may be his desire to ensure re-deaning, this time at the expense of taxpayers. In addition, the fact that the private office does not have an excessive interest in entry is well known. The fellow Member pointed out this already on the working body, and I reiterate that in the study year 2014/2015 three students were enrolled in the 1st year and 17 students were enrolled in the 2nd year, a total of 20 students. In the following year of study, 2015/2016 three students were enrolled in the 1st year, in the 2nd year of 7 students, in the 3rd year of 17 students, a total of 27. In the academic year 2017/2018, 7 students were enrolled in the 1st year and 8 students were enrolled in the 2nd year and 6, 2 were graduates in the 3rd year. So 23 students were enrolled together. It is crystal clear that a school with 23 students and probably about so many professors alone cannot maintain itself with tuition, unless it abnormally raises them or secures state funding. As early as 2018, this argument was highlighted by the competent ministry, which opposed the financing of the public funding facility, since similar study content was already widely provided within the public network of agricultural study programmes, and there were already twice as many. Here I stress that in Maribor we have a very quality Faculty of Biosystem Sciences, the previous Faculty of Agriculture and I cannot agree that in Maribor this knowledge, the necessary knowledge, cannot be gained. We have a similar opinion in the SAB, and we estimate that due to the lack of admission to support the funding of the programme, the country is calling for it, even though the programme is already provided within the existing public network. The ruling coalition therefore again wants to finance private institutions with public money, while another SDS attack on public education is hidden under the cover of decentralisation and decommissioning. The financing of private initiatives through public funds is evident in the coalition, not only in schools and schools, but also in the dominant way of understanding the private sector. We have not forgotten your unsuccessful and tasteless attempt to amend the Higher Education Act, by which the higher education institutions should meet the changed conditions only when the second extension of accreditation is extended and not at the first. You continue to do so with your social policy of managing the government. We are in favour of strong and quality public education in the SAB, so we will not agree to its failure. If your decision is a way for individuals and private higher education institutions close to the largest coalition party to get their hands on public money, this is certainly not in the public interest, so in the SAB Group we will not support the proposal to establish a separate higher education institution of the Grm Novo Mesto High School for Rural Management.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u28	The appetites following the acquisition of higher education by the largest government party are well known and extend beyond the duration of this mandate. Let us recall the generous award of concessions to private higher education institutions for the implementation of study programmes during the first and second Janša government, when SDS members have often become co-founders, directors, deans and lecturers at concessional higher education institutions. It is also not new that ambitions have been dragged forward since 2008 since the establishment of the Fourth State University in Slovenia, based in Novi Grad. This time, the second attempt to establish the independent University Institute of Grm Novo Mesto is also a local political one. While interests are legitimate and not surprising, at least in a specific case, there is little to do with public benefit. More than public interest, this is a case of local political and financial and ideological interests. Because of their poor reasoning, they're even more visual than they were. In fact, these interests follow the reverse logic that the proponents advocate in the spirit of promoting private education. A key motive for the adoption of the decree is the transformation of a higher private vocational school into a public independent higher education institution. The fundamental objective of the transformation is to acquire public legal personality and thus all the related ratings, of course the most important financial benefits. A stable and reliable system of funding for higher education brings a stable functioning and implementation of study activities and all other higher education activities financed from the State budget. The public university higher education system in Slovenia works well. The public network is also significantly complemented by concessional study programmes, as well as by a purely private educational offer. Higher education studies are conducted not only in Ljubljana, Maribor and Primorska, but also in some other small towns or educational centres. This is a fact and therefore all indications of a centralised higher education offer are superfluous and unfounded. However, the more reasonable question is whether it makes sense for the New Town High School to be awarded concessions and to finance studies that we do not really need. We are talking about six enrolled students this year and the good 20 graduates that the school has been able to educate since its inception. Meanwhile, places in existing and comparable professional and university studies remain incomplete. Knowledge and skills in rural governance within the public network are already provided within the University of Ljubljana, the Biotechnical Faculty, and the University of Maribor, the Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystemic Sciences. Also significant is the retention of the Ministry of Field Affairs, which is supposed to write a negative opinion on the possible establishment of a state institution, which the Government has not addressed at all. Even some local stakeholders who expressed their views at the Education Committee's meeting object to the recasting of the existing higher school. The legislation of the proposed solution would mean that the State should establish a public network of higher education institutions in all regions, not just novices, even in the face of a negligible number of students and a lack of public interest. Not only are such solutions non-systematic, but they clearly point to other, increasing business interests and probably also an ideological mission. We oppose the unconnected Members of the private high school. We are also opposed to the irrational and unargued regionalisation of higher education and, of course, we cannot support the decision in question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u30	President, thank you so much for your word. Today we have before us the proposal for a decree establishing a separate higher education institution of the GRM Novo mesto High School for Rural Management. I repeat: Higher rural management schools GRM Novo mesto. All those who claimed that we already have it in Slovenia are strongly wrong. He doesn't have a college like this. It has only that, and this college can only be visited by those students who have enough financial resources to pay for it. That's why I find it extremely repulsive and unacceptable that today you consider how many students this university has. What would happen if students had to pay for all the colleges? You think the numbers would be bigger? You really think they'd be bigger? Secondly, see, this is the area of rural development and agriculture. It is essentially a higher education institution operating in Dolenjska. Dolenjska has many municipalities, which are slightly larger by square, but smaller by population. They're very distracted. These students can't afford to go to college in Ljubljana and Maribor, because they also have a number of other obligations that they attach to their agricultural activities or work at home. Finally, I myself have always advocated that Dolenjska reach a separate public university. All those who advocate public education should support this. All of this is essentially a step towards reaching a public university in Dolenjska. True, this school does not have systematic funding and the fact is that all those who visit it have to pay, which is a problem for people who come from rural areas, often at a low economic level of the families themselves, because they do not have the resources to do so. But the faculty itself would be interested in the content itself, because it's quality and it's good. It was said that there were some personal benefits involved. Tomaž Lisce and I proposed the same thing back in 2018, but then Cerar's government fell and we did not reach the end of this proposal. And at the time, Your Honor, there was no Podgoršek Mr. Minister, not least he was an official in your government. Now he's moving on with his work. That's what we've been looking for, especially me and my colleague, Lisec. Our goal was that students who complete their education in the area of Dolenjska, where we have a biotechnological college, an agricultural school, can then continue their education further along the vertical lines. It is therefore important for this public funding to take place. The observations made by the representatives of the SD, Mr Židan, presented the view that this was a personal benefit, were depraved. Above all, I think that the gentleman is the last one to be so obvious that someone here is working for personal benefit. As far as some of the current politicians are concerned, and so on, I wonder if the entire Slovenian education is managed by Levica, given that the first trade unionist is actually their man. In short, it's the money that the protestors spend on two meetings. I hope that wisdom will be found, that Dolenjska too will reach the higher education institution, which will be financed by the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The final position will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. It is the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u32	Good afternoon, Mr Vice President, Director Janžekovic, colleague, colleague! Today we are discussing the lobbying law tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC. However, the goal is very simple — maintaining private institutions owned by those close to SDS. It's about ours getting public money. That's what this is about. The establishment of a separate higher education public institution of the Grm Novo mesto High School for Rural Management is, of course, linked to the intention of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to establish a new public university in Nova mesto. This was accepted by the government in August 2021. We already have a university there in New Town, which has been private and has been operating under the concession contract for many years. The Faculty of Information Studies in New Town, whose leadership is part of the influential circle of Prime Minister Janez Janša, has initiated procedures for turning into a university. It is expected that the new public university will include the New Town Faculty of Information Studies and Industrial Engineering and, of course, this high school that we are talking about today. That's why it needs to be supported. While the conditions for establishing the university are very difficult, John Janša’s government seems to be much easier to reach. That is also the view of the gentlemen who have set themselves this goal today. In LMŠ we advocate strengthening existing universities and universities, which are often financially malnourished. And I'm not going to start talking to you about the University of Maribor. We advocate that they represent the core of the higher education system of the public university and the state-funded public institutions of higher education. In the LMŠ, we believe that this system should be strengthened by the public and made possible by the best possible working conditions. Likewise to this day, we have not heard strong arguments and answers why we should actually need a new university. Is this really necessary? What is the research potential of this new university for the first time? And secondly, what will be the financial consequences of this establishment? Under no circumstances – and we believe so in the LMŠ – the new university must not be entangled in existing funds intended for public universities. The same is true for the establishment of a separate higher education public school for rural governance, Grm Novo Mesto, whose proposal has been tabled by the coalition MPs and which currently has about 20 students, as we have heard today. 20 students! If the proposal is approved today, the private higher education institution will currently receive state funding. This only brings about the government's intention, which is to support private institutions, to carry out its ideological mission and to gain a place in a rector conference and in other bodies that have an impact on school and educational policies. The paradox is that this proposal is not supported by the Ministry of Education. Why? Because also in the LMŠ we believe that it is a professionally unfounded and politically and interestingly motivated establishment of a publicly funded educational institution. Therefore, this proposal, this lobbying law proposed by the coalition members of the SDS, NSI and SMC, will not, of course, be supported in the LMŠ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 25. Ten. 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest, so we'll start the application process. First he gets the word Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today we have two lobbying points on our agenda. That's the other one. She wants to support the Gram School as a coalition species in the National Assembly. They wrote a decree with information that is actually not up to date. Among other things, there are 30 students enrolled in this school, in fact about 20 students. Even the ministers of this government, supported by the coalition MPs, do not support this specific decision. More specifically, the competent Ministry of Education does not do so. Why? Yes, logically, it's a lobbyist action for the right that's taking place at this school. Speakers and co-workers of the Grm High School are SLS President Marjan Podobnik, a long-standing influential member of the SLS Marjan Maučec, Vice-President of New Slovenia Vida Čadonic Špelič and current Minister of Agriculture Jože Podgoršek. The more excruciating case of conflict of interest the very obvious corruption will be difficult to find. It will be difficult to find even under the year and a half of the government of Janez Janša, who practically does not do anything other than strike the country. Nor does this creation decision show any quality, diversity, accessibility based on analyses to contribute to our higher education space, nor on internal and international comparability. We have not heard any other argument as just empty floscules, how we do not support rural areas and how great this school is for this purpose. I think this school is great for SDS officials who want to live on public finances and their lobbyist friends, for no one else. However, we have a quality public higher education system, allowing it to perform this function without lobbyist intervention, such as today's.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you, President, for your word. As I have already said in the LMŠ's position, it is a simple lobbying law, which has been put into the process by the coalition members of the SDS, NSI and SMC with the aim of supporting private institutions, that they will receive funding, and that they will then be able to include or round up a so-called new university, which has concerns about the current Ministry of Education, which would probably be asked by the Rectors of the current public universities, but it is certainly a matter of public money to do so, because this is possible in this government, because the goal of this government is to support everything that is private. Of course, the goal is that they will then be able to teach. They teach anyway. That such a way of adopting decisions, establishing laws without adequate justification and by Members is problematic, has also been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has made it very clear that it is necessary to assess whether the higher education system in the Republic of Slovenia already provides opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education. At the moment, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can obtain an appropriate education of this direction at public universities. Therefore, there is no need for this institution, which has a total of 20, I repeat, 20 students, to be financed by public money. In the LMŠ we advocate giving public money to public universities and strengthening their role. Why? Because quality education can be carried out in quality institutions with quality staff and not least students. We do not know what the research potential of this new university is, nor do we know what it means to finance or what it means for the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and how much money will be lost in this way by the current public universities. I'm sure they don't agree. Why? Because some universities are already underfunded within the current public universities. There are some of these at the University of Maribor. Therefore, there is no need for public money to be given to individuals who have now suddenly found that they have an underwritten entry and that they do not actually cover all their costs with tuition, so it is super cool if they can attach to the public tentacles. It's unacceptable for LMSH. That is why we will support the amendment that has been tabled, tabled by the Left, in which this decree will be enforced within exactly 100 years. And that seems like a good solution to us, so we will support it as far as the amendment is concerned. As for the very lobbyist law tabled by the coalition members of the SDS, NSI and SMC, we will vote against it in the LMŠ. Why? Because we are against supporting private institutions because we are against private institutions close to the current largest ruling SDS parties getting public money. Because we advocate that existing public universities will receive adequate money for their development, so that, of course, all their potentials can also be strengthened, because public universities and public school spaces need to be strengthened, not private. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. My colleague, if your thesis is that the government will support this university, then it will probably be a public university in the end. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u38	Mr Vice-President, I ask you politely not to take any rights to comment on my statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u39	Look, I need to warn you about this meeting. So there will be no funding from the private university in this case, but if it does, there will be funding from the public university. I have a duty to warn you of this nonsense. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I expect you to have an entire outbreak after my debate, because you will obviously not like it, which is, of course, unacceptable to get involved in debates by Members as President. It is my opinion that this proposal should also take a close look at the KPK, because it is actually corrupt. If we look at which Members have proposed this and which people are teaching at this university, there is a clear conflict of interest. But when it comes to public money, this government acts like it's a bottomless bag, and it owes our grandchildren as well. Once it's down, and it'll fall once, we'll inherit the burned ground. It will be very difficult not only to repair, to repair the damage. Therefore, it is fully evident from all that has been submitted to us, not only that the proposal is completely inconceivable and that you imagine the public institution quite by your own public and private means, you think that if public money goes into private pockets, then this is all corporate. Of course, if you put together what it is, you have to pay. However, it is also clear that you are unchanged in this somewhere ruling coalition. Because when it comes to a lot of money, it comes to a lot of different interests very quickly. What am I trying to say? Gregor Macedoni is the mayor, and he invites us to freeze this proposal, however. We have done this, we have proposed our amendment to adopt this decree in 100 years. 100 years from now, we are actually hoping that a democratic thought in Slovenia will experience some development, some evolution that people who will make decisions will finally be able to see public interest and not private benefits. 100 years from now, the ruling coalition is unable to do so. Gregor Macedoni, who is, as far as I know, the Novomec mayor, has Vido Čadonic Špelič as a mayor of Nova Slovenije, who also teaches here, not to say that the entire set from the Slovenian People's Party is from the President of Marjan Podobnik and Marjan Maučec and so on. So, with public money, we would finance our interests, our own institution, which is said to have 20 enrolled students. And you should also look at who these students are. Who are these 20 privileged people for whom the school is open? Whether it's so necessary, we'll see. They are also probably children of politicians who would not pay this tuition for selected programs. I am absolutely in favour of the amendment that we have proposed in Levica, and I am rejecting coalitionly, and I will vote accordingly. However, I would strongly like to see to it that one day we will finally clear up a policy where ministers withdraw property taxes and order them in Luxembourg, and the brother of the Prime Minister of the Government, that we have ministers who are in the process, because of the straw companies. That leads to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u41	Colleague, theme.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u42	I expected you to stop me. So I can stop myself, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u43	The New Town Institute of Higher Education. It has nothing to do with Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u44	My debate is my right, my democratic right, and that is my position. I'll stop by myself. You won't stop me. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. However, I suggest you stick to the agenda. By the way, public money is also used to finance colleges where they teach, say Dr. Lukšič, Dr. Pikalo, Dr. Pejovnik and so on. In this respect, there is no derogation in this part from other practices. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. There is a Shanghai university quality scale and there are 900 world universities. In the first place, there's the American Harvard, and then the other nine U.S. universities, 10 maybe Oxford, Cambridge, and then they go a little further. The University of Ljubljana is somewhere in 700th place. Harvard is over 300 years old. The University of Ljubljana has 40,000 students and Harvard has 17,000 to 21,000 students a year. We are convinced that the university must be very large. That's not necessary. That's not necessary. A good university like Harvard can be much smaller than the University of Ljubljana. We have three universities with us, the oldest of Ljubljana's, and then it's a Maribor university and a seaside university. The establishment of this higher education institution is the first step towards a new public university in New Town. We expect them to join or establish other programs or studies that will form a new public university in New Town. Dolenjska deserves a university in New Town. This is because everything does not need to be centralised in Ljubljana. Finally, we can know that there is a great shortage of cities in student homes in Ljubljana. They are overcrowded and in fact students have very poor standards in some homes, as they stay on very small surfaces. If students remain in their regions, there will also be no need to rebuild new housing or accommodation capacity for students in Ljubljana. The University of Ljubljana will not be deprived of anything, nor will other universities. It doesn't say anywhere that everything has to be on one end. And that's a step towards decentralisation. Dolenjska and New Town deserve a university. It has sufficient economic potential, enough social potential, enough young people to study there and stay in the region. Immigration to Ljubljana may have its advantages, but it is not always the best. That is why it is necessary and urgent for our country to decentralise itself. One of these things is higher education in the regions. And, of course, there is no other person who wants to develop the whole of Slovenia, but I am a Ljubljana girl myself, and I love and support Ljubljana, but I think it is also right that Slovenia is regionally equally developed. It is this higher education institution and then the establishment of a new public university that is one of the conditions and one of the guarantees that we will reach this decentralisation and greater justice, as well as greater development in Slovenia. That is why, of course, I will oppose the pointless amendment of the Left, and I will also support the decision to establish this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got five applicants. My friend Fox, you're a proponent? Do you want a word now or after? At the end. Good. Then he gets the first word Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor! Look, we're mixing two things up again on this. Sab as a liberal client is for private education, she was never against. It's an initiative. But if you have a private matter, as is the law on companies, the purpose of the company is profit. It's not education, it's better education, it's stress, it's profit-making. And I don't mind. This is the only right thing to do, and it drives the economy, organisations, businesses forward, making profits. Because it's the only way the company survives, otherwise it can't live. But to do private things that then cover themselves with public money, then I can also do bike rentals and demand public money to get me started. So I don't think these things just go together. That is why in the SAB we advocate public education, for public organisations, because the aim is to build knowledge and make knowledge accessible to all under equal conditions. It is about increasing the quality and knowledge of our children, students and so on. Speaking of regionalisation, I agree. That's right. But universities, such as the University of Ljubljana, have its own exhibit, the Faculty of Transport and Maritime Affairs in Piran. That's not a problem at all. We are committed to ensuring that schools are as quality as possible, and this could also be the case for regionalisation, the exhibition of the University of Maribor or the University of Ljubljana in New Town. So I would simply repeat again, economic organisations are clearly geared towards making profits, not spreading knowledge and so on. Schools have a different purpose, public schools have a different purpose. We're in favour of a high-quality school. So this should be strengthened, and I think that there is no problem that we should also go in the direction of regionalisation, that exhibits should be made around and then professors come there to teach instead of driving students, as was said, to Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Chairman. In fact, you know, every day I witness your discourse again, in fact, I can say quite violent communication, which testifies to the fact that you want to literally kidnap this country. Look what I'm listening to today. That you shouldn't be in college because you could be teaching those, them, third. What's the matter with you, my dears? But now you will limit citizens and citizens to who can and who can't? Are we going back to the time of 1945 when the balls were thrown into the boxes? Are the ministers of the university only suitable for your own? The last government supported by the Left, go across and look where the ministers came from. Did we terminate the FDV because it was Minister Pikalo? We didn't. Yeah, weird?Oh, my God! Because that's a conflict of interest. Let's stop! Don't be a fool, but don't be a fool in the people who live in Dolenjska. There are still residents who do not even have drinking water, even though you have gladly written it down in the Constitution and talked about how everything will be resolved. You didn't save anything. Firefighters drive their water so that they can even live and survive those farms they own and those that deal with livestock. And no lobbyist law is that. How can someone in the National Assembly say that this is one of the worst lobbyist laws, but if you have adopted a couple of days ago such a lobbyist law that they are against all unions and all chambers. Come on, get serious! In short, once again, the point is that also Dolenjska and that there are also students who want to study in rural areas, and thank God that we have them, because, as you know, our rural areas are dying out, there are fewer and fewer young people taking over farms from their parents or grandfathers, however they can study. Do not compare this school with entry places with schools that are public and not payable. I'm sure there would be more of these students and they don't have any money. However, the Faculty has an extremely good and quality programme, and many would choose to do so. After all, many would have made a decision because it was much closer to him. Someone said we have everything in Maribor. Don't be silly, come on! You will tell the Metlican that you have everything in Maribor. I do not accept this and it is really only for us to come to the possibility that students in Dolenjska who have decided on this area, which we must encourage, can also be enrolled in these colleges. And once again, it's a minor amount. For 400 thousand euros, you're poking around here saying I don't know what kind of conflict of interest it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Listen, respectable from the Left, SD and LMŠ and so on, Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik, now you are happy to read the newspaper and not listen to what we are saying. You've turned this decree completely upside down. Obviously, you didn't even look at the material, just to read it. And what I've heard is that Levice is going to go check on who's studying at this school, who's learning, and that's turned to the end. You're going to go see which students and students are studying at this school? This is a complete disgrace and attack on Slovenian countryside, on Slovenian farmers. And what you're doing and with this 100-year transfer amendment is such an unsettling joke that doesn't belong in Parliament. And what you do and attack the countryside, education, is politely said, I don't know what to say, in short, the greatest shame you can afford, as far as Slovenian agriculture and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. A replica? Here you go, Lydia Wildeak Mirnik. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u54	I would like to repeat to Mr Doblekar, a respected SDS colleague, who accused me of not reading this resolution's proposal. Dear Mr Doblekar, I suggest you read your opinion on the Legal and Legislative Service, and then we can start to debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. What a very lobbyist action this office of Thunder and its integration into the state budget is witnessing also the discussions that took place in the last ten minutes of the National Assembly. Your private lobbyist interest kind of SDS defends - how? By reference to 1945, with aggressive attacks on everyone who isn't them and so on. Only this form of controversy and the mobilisation of these rhetorical tools tells us very clearly what time it is. And I will also draw Dolenjska to the debate. Dolenjska deserves better than a Grams institution where they teach a third-rate policy designed as a platform for these policies, which would now join public finances. Yes, we have schools whose lecturers also operate in politics. But in this particular case, we are dealing with a school that politicians are obsessed with. Completely reversed political priorities. Public school, quality public school and its mission are in the non-discriminatory education of everyone and everyone to try to achieve the greatest happiness of their lives. It's some kind of enlightening concept of school. And after this enlightened concept of school, our public higher education system also works. It educates smart people, educates esdees. Catch – SDS doesn't like smart people. The SDS would like Slovenian schools to educate and educate only esdesians, themselves. Therefore, at the outset, in their first mandates, the SDS governments have already raided and scattered our higher education premises by establishing these and those higher education institutions, so that ladies and gentlemen can lobby their troughs and their ideological apparatus, even so that their members can boast around with various academic titles that they cannot obtain at public school because the programmes cannot. When that is not the case, then these ladies and gentlemen, who would now attach their diplomas to the public finances of the Grm Institute, will falsify their diplomas. We've had a number of cases like this. We are opposed to the fact that the SDS nationalises its private interests to attach them to public finances. This is not in fact, as Ambassador Divac Mirnik had previously argued, the support of everything that is private. The SDS is actually doing the opposite. It attaches private interests to the public interest, to the state. And you know what else is what I just said? The definition of corruption, the school definition of corruption. And, of course, we have made an amendment in Levica to make this connection to the Gram Institute for Marjan Podobnik from SLS, Marjan Maučec from SLS, Vide Čadonic Špelič from Nova Slovenije, after all, the current Minister of Agriculture Jožeta Podgorška will move the hundred years into the future. Yeah, what else?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will try to avoid the last debater, who shows essentially the same primitiveism as the primitive investment of such amendments, which he himself has made in history, and we probably don't remember since 1991. I'm gonna start by saying that today, I think, ten times I've heard about lobbyist marriage. This decree was tabled by my colleague Anja Bah Žibert at the beginning of 2018. Do you know who the Minister of Agriculture was then? The current Member of the Social Democrats, Mr Dejan Židan. Mr Dejan Židan then promised to support this decision among the lines because his Ministry of Education did not wish to allow this to continue. That it is not a lobbyist marriage, says the very history of the institution, such as the Thunder Novo Mesto. All those who speak so badly about this institution, I invite you, on behalf of both the high school and the high school, to come and visit this bush. It would probably not hurt any member of the Left to see in practice what nonsense he speaks here in the National Assembly, while on the other hand there are very important programmes in practice. The next thing is an interesting debate today by members of the left political parties, who are full of the mouth of public education, public health, public health and public health. Today, when we have a desire for a public office, they are against it and say it's about sustaining it. In short, when it suits them, they are more likely to see a private school in public when it does not suit them, where they are likely to be happy in the next law on higher education, higher education and other schools in the field of education, not to be necessary and, in their own words, to be abolished. The next thing is interesting. As a long-standing member of the Committee on Agriculture, I know both the former and the current Members, who, in their rhetoric, are often smart about rural and agricultural development, how rural and agricultural conditions need to be improved. Today these Members, who are full of the mouth of rural and agricultural development, will obviously be against it. Another twisted logic of people who speak one thing and work the other. Last but not least today will be interesting to hear or see the vote of all those who are full of the mouth of decentralisation, czech, how Ljubljana and Maribor are not all, how we have to do with individual institutions outside the Ljubljana or Maribor ring. Today we have that opportunity. Yes, today Novo mesto, Dolenjska, sometimes the second time maybe Primorska, sometimes the second time Gorenjska or some other congregation in the northwest, especially the northeast of our country, which deserve more added value. The decree establishing the Gram Novo Mesto High School would be an added value in the area of decentralisation. The new town has successful secondary schools, has successful higher and higher schools, and finally has a private university. Now it is a wish, as already said colleague Mojca Škrnjar, that we are taking steps towards the university in New Town. And that was the main reason why my colleague Anja Bah Žibert and I – let me say again – tabled this decree at the beginning of 2018. We thought and we thanked back then, and today, as a proposaler, I thank all those who have co-signed to take a further step in the field of higher and higher education in the New City to do everything possible to get to the University of New Town as soon as possible. I have a feeling that today there has been talk about the New City, as well as about public education and agriculture, as well as about the New City as a well-nourished one, I will say in my own words to the municipal community, which has been moving development through all the statistical indicators. Last but not least, I think it is right for him to get the New Town of Rural Development, including from a financial point of view. So far we have had similar higher schools in Ljubljana, at the Biotechnical Faculty, and in Maribor, where the program is called, I think, the Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystemic Sciences. And why did the young flee from Dolenjska, the White Land, and Posavia? Because this is where the study was paying off. And not only young people who were interested in how to develop rural areas, how to develop agriculture, of course they preferred to save themselves, go from our places and go to Ljubljana, where the country allowed them – I will borrow the words of the left-wing Members – free higher education, even though this free-of-charge may sometimes be the case with another law. Now we have a chance to do the opposite. Why don't some young boy or some young girl come from Primorska, Gorenjska, from Prekmurje to Dolenjska? Why not? Personally, as someone who comes from Posavje, not from Dolenjska, I am confident that I will be happy to support any establishment of a higher education institution in Slovenia, Murski Sobota, Kranj or elsewhere. Because I am in favour of - once again - decentralisation and because agriculture, according to my conduct, does not even belong in Ljubljana. Just look at the capabilities of the Biotechnical Faculty as a high school. Worse than the Bolt of Novo Mesto. I hope that I am allowed by the leaders of both the secondary school and the higher school of Gram Novo Mesto to invite you to Novo Mesto so that you will not speak so badly about this decree and propose amendments as we have, unfortunately, before us today. So much about how some people want to tackle the problem of higher education in 100 years and are against decentralisation, without worrying about the finances of young people, without worrying about rural and agricultural development and, last but not least, about the decision put into the procedure by the wrong group of Members, even pushing their own mantras on how to have as much public education as possible in the field of higher education. Let me finish with two thoughts. This decree strengthens public higher education field, strengthens thinking in rural and agricultural development, which is still one of the main sectors within the European Union, and to take a step further towards decentralisation, so today I will once again monitor the vote of all those who are full of the mouths of public education, rural development and agriculture, and finally those who are knocking their fingers, that things outside Ljubljana and Maribor must also be supported. I will certainly be interested, although I do not come from the New City, to see how the Members who say they come from Dolenjska and from Posavje and from the White Country voted. One more to conclude. Please stop this lobbying law. This is not the law of the Minister, because this law or this decree was put into the procedure before the current minister was discussed and the Minister was just one of the quotas whose party today clearly opposes what they stand for: rural development and public education development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Replica, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you. Because I was obviously misunderstood in my discussion. I haven't said a bad word at the expense of the New City, nor is there a New City or a Dolenjska something that is equal to this decision of yours. On the contrary. Dolenjska and Novo mesto deserve better than some basket for served right - hand politics pretending to be a public school.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see you're out of interest. But I'm going to start the application procedure. [[talking to each other]] Here you go. And next time, be careful because you're late. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I only signed up because she just ran into me on the phone with information that there are no 30 students, not 20 students, but in fact 9. One in the first year, two in the third, six in the second, then there are two graduates. Then who are we pinning this school on to public finances? For the served officers of the right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u63	Comrade Kordish, I give you a reminder because you were offensive in your debate. This is not worthy of a Member of the National Assembly, who must, in accordance with the rules that are here, also take care of the integrity of fellow members of political groups and so on. Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you, Chairman. I do not think I have been in any way offensive, unless they feel like such dedicated politicians from the types of Slovenian right that operate at the Institute of Thunder, who would join the state budget through the Office of Thunder.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u65	I'm giving you a second warning because you've said it insultingly again and you're not respectful of anyone in this country. Anyone else want a word? No one else. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 26th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 11.30. (The sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u66	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in the following order: 23, 24, 15, 16, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25 and 26 on the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision establishing a stand-alone higher education institution of the Grm Novo mesto Rural Management School. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 25. Ten. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 26. Procedural proposal, Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you, President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, I would like to request 45 minutes of pre-decision breaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u68	I'm adjourning the session, which we resume at 12 o'clock for 15 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.32 p.m. and resumed at 12.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u69	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Continue with the 23rd item of the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 26. Procedural proposal, Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much, President. Today's agenda is to vote on a whole range of important things, from this controversial establishment of the Grm Higher Education Institute, which is established by Members and Members of the Coalition itself, the Long-Term Care Act, which essentially privatises the area of long-term care, the Lucks Act, which will significantly deregulation this area, and also represents a significant loss of funds for humanitarian organisations, disability organisations and so on, and the Income Act, which will turn the 800-million-million-dollar gap into the budget on the basis of giving discharges to the richest. This is just a few decisions that, according to our assessment, are very important, crucial in this country. Today's vote will show whether this coalition enjoys some majority support in the National Assembly or is a minority. And the vote will also show who supports such measures. For this reason, we estimate that a large number of these disputed measures, which will be considered today and at the vote, need to be weighed. In the Group of the Left, we will propose or verify this in such a way that we predict the obstruction of all members of the Group of the Left at all points of the agenda today, in order to show what the actual power ratio is in the National Assembly and whether it is not possible time to go to early elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! The fact is, we have a minority government in the country. With all the problems in society, the minority government wants to get its ear through, if I may say so, without having any broad support for these important contents for both the professional public and Parliament. In this way, when he wants to make important decisions, in fact, he puts on the list of his pre-election promises, I'm going to say some stories of success. At this session we have a law on income, I have gambling at this meeting, and at this meeting we have our own housing law. However, we are clear and clear, in this country, we have essentially been playing for luck, hunting for votes after this Parliament, who will support something, no matter what damage the next generation will do. So today, with the obstruction of this session, we will show that it is irresponsible to rule in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. My friend Golubovic, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much, President. In the larger parliament that we have in the country, we need to unscrew this smoke screen and show who of the Members and Members supports all the actions and actions of this government and who does not get a clear picture of who they are as part of the coalition and who they are as part of the opposition. That is why we are also forecasting in the LMŠ Group an obstruction of voting during the entire session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Reich, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u76	In the SAB Group, we believe that this government does not have the right majority in Parliament, and that is why we announce the obstruction of today's meeting, in fact, to crystallize matters, to tell and show who supports this government if the claims of the government coalition are correct. Therefore, we declare obstruction on behalf of the entire parliamentary group during this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Janja Servant, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much. In our parliamentary group, we have already taken a very clear look at the points on which we have things on the table this time. It's about the bush, it's about the gambling law, it's about the income, it's about the things that this government has shown that regardless of the many, mass sharp responses, it doesn't listen to the profession, it doesn't listen to people, it doesn't listen to anyone but itself. In all of this, it pursues only some of its interests or the interests of some who are connected to it. The law on gambling is a very harmful law and its adoption will have irreparable consequences. There'll be no way to save that. We strongly oppose such a way, strongly oppose content and acceptance in such a way, and therefore predict obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Victory, Jelinčič. Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u80	I am glad, however, that those who want to tear down the country have now left Parliament. Thank God, there are people in the Slovenian political space who want their country's good, who want to help them, who want to solve problems, but there are some on the left-hand political option who would do anything to get into power, even though they have demolished the country. So nothing surprises me that they went out. The End of Their Ends [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u81	What's your procedural proposal, Comrade Jelinčič?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u82	In fact, their disease and the pain that they have not been in a position to conduct, divide and run the country, as most of the time since 1992, is so severe that various actions are being carried out. [[…]] I believe also from the sympathizers of these parties who went out, shipments with bullets from our Member, ruling suits, and I fear this is just the beginning. I hope that the police, which has so far acted professionally, correctly and accurately, will find out things, but I am afraid that the prosecution, which is largely in the hands of the left hand option, will reject all of this. This has already happened, I hope that this will no longer happen, because in such a case, if this goes on, we can be afraid that the matter will escalate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u83	Comrade Jelinčič, move on to a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u84	The proposal is to vote quickly, to vote without unnecessary debates and language and to do what is our duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u85	Look, this wasn't a procedural proposal. We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 1 to 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 1.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree establishing a separate higher education institution of the High School for Rural Implementation of the Grm Novo mesto. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 46, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 16th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 by the Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment for 2020 by the Proposal for a Recommendation. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to those reports of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Long-term Care Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The long-term supply bill is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. I take it we're going to the vote again. We're voting again. There are 46 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note, therefore, that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will be allocated to the Health Committee as a working body. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Gambling is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. I take it that we are inconclusive in the first vote. We're voting again. Is she back now or isn't she? [[talking to each other]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u86	Just a minute, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u87	Dude, you can move with the card to the seat next door. I'm breaking up in 10 minutes. Yeah? We vote once again. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 2. (For the vote was 39.)(against 2.) I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance as its parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 3. (The vote was 43.)(against 3.) I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance as its parent labour. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Promoting the Construction of Public Rented Apartments. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law promoting the construction of public housing is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 43. (For the vote was 3.)(against 43.) I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. Since we are not in agreement, I repeat the vote. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 38. (For the vote was 5.)(against 38.) I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 19th item of the agenda, which is the draft law on the ratification of the international convention on the protection of all persons from enforced disappearance. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. (The vote was 45.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the draft law on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, by the Final Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, as its parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, it is on the confirmation of the official refined texts of the laws. Officially consolidated texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the first proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the second proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Criminal Procedure Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 15 October 2021, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Rok Svetlič be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Natashi Kovac. Procedural proposal, colleague Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u88	Madam President, I ask you for half an hour's recess before your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u89	I'm gonna call it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u91	We'll pick it up at 13.10. (The sitting was suspended at 12.37 p.m. and resumed at 13.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u92	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, these are Mandate-optional matters. My friend Krivec, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u93	Mr President, thank you for saying so. In accordance with Article 74, I propose that this agenda item be decided at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u94	With regard to point 26-1a, this is the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the SDS Group proposes that, pursuant to Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and decision on the proposal be postponed to one of the following meetings of the Assembly. Would you like to speak with the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. Anyone else want a word? Proposer? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on the motion to postpone the decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to postpone the debate and decision on the proposal for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to one of the next meetings of the assembly. I'm guessing we're not concluding. We're voting again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u95	Mr President, I would like to ask you, on a procedural basis, to request a 15-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u96	No procedural proposal is possible at this stage. We're voting again. I'm guessing we're not done for the second time. We shall proceed by vote at 13.25 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.12. and resumed at 13.25.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u97	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to the session. We're at 26th. We vote on the proposal to postpone the vote. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 45, for 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and the National Assembly will therefore take a decision on the proposal at one of the next meetings of the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a Deputy Ombudsman. On 29 September 2021, the Ombudsman proposed to the National Assembly that Miho Horvata be appointed as the deputy to the aruha of human rights for a period of six years. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Ombudsman to Peter Sveto.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u98	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! After almost three years of acting as the Ombudsman, I feel that my former deputy, Mr Miha Horvat, has demonstrated exceptional expertise, dedication, independence and responsibility in his work so far. As the author of several applications in cases on which the Ombudsman has represented before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which, due to its importance, has classified this as constitutional, precedental since they have made a new and important contribution to the understanding of the Constitution. In the areas addressed by experts, many initiatives are being launched on their own initiative, an invaluable collaborator and an outstanding legal expert. Mr Horvat proved, at the time we were working together, that he had both professional and personal qualities for the deputy guardian. He is an important member of my team, he has outstanding knowledge, skills, competence for the good of acting deputy in the future. As I am convinced that, over the next six years, it can continue and contribute significantly to the further development and successful functioning of the institution, I propose that it be reappointed as the Deputy Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-26-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision appointing Miha Horvat as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years, with a mandate beginning with 30 years. 3. 2022. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 17, for 26. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ptuj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Nike Brumen in judicial office at the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will elect mag to serve as a judge in the District Court of Justice in the Ptuj District Court. Nika Brumen. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposals for Decisions on the discharge of a Member and the termination of the term of office of a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. That function was notified by the National Assembly of the resignation of the member and the death of the member. The notification was addressed by the Mandate-voluntary Commission as the parent working body and a decision was drawn up on the discharge of the member from the seat of the FIHO Council to discharge Simon Stegne and a briefing decision on the termination of the term of office of the member of the FIHO Alooz Rudolph Council. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, by which Simon Stegne will be dismissed from the seat of the member of that Council. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present for 46, against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On the basis of Article 10, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 112 and 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly is informed of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that the member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, Alojz Rudolph, appointed on the proposal of humanitarian organisations, has terminated his mandate as a result of his death. I'm guessing the National Assembly has made a decision. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference in the work of the police and the political impact on the course or outcome of the forecasting and other procedures. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. I'm guessing we're not concluding. We're re-voting. We're voting again. There are 46 Members and Members present for 46, against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the last item of the agenda and the 26th meeting of the assembly. I'm informing you that in 30 minutes, this is at 2.05 p.m., the 85th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly will begin.
