ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 60th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, Article 60, paragraph 2, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 93rd session. 2. 2021. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Member Bevk alone. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, cooperation outside the meeting of the Assembly shall not be announced by any Member. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Determination of the Optional Units for the will of Members in the State Assembly within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 36 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u2	Dearly beloved, everyone has a lovely greeting and a joyful desolation! The law before us is somehow proof of that Churchill claim when he once said that "the most lasting are temporary solutions in politics". The electoral system, as we have it, was in 1990 and then in 1991, when the Slovenian Constitution was formed at the time of the adoption of the legislation itself, meant to be temporary, because at the time of the adoption of the Constitution itself, the Assembly was unable to agree on all the exact elements of the electoral system that it would introduce into the constitution. On this basis, the new constitution also adopted the electoral law governing the principles of the electoral system, and then the Law establishing electoral units and electoral thefts; we are dealing with it today. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly ruled on this law over the past five years, and three times explicitly stated that there was nothing constitutionally contentious at the time of the adoption of this law — it is said, in the basic, basic solutions. On the contrary, it has explicitly stated that the system itself, as it is, and the principles in force during the period when the law was adopted, are undeniably in accordance with the Constitution. In the last decision made two years ago, however, it was different. What happened at that time? The electoral margins, which are, I warn you, in the proportional electoral system, only the units within which the percentage is determined, while the whole calculation takes place differently – a little later – are changing due to the number of inhabitants. People move, there are larger settlements, there are smaller settlements, and there is a gradual change in the number of people spoken of by law. Some have increased by the number of inhabitants, some have decreased, and this has also led to an increase in relationships. The situation in the original law was within the limits of 1:3 concerning the number of inhabitants in the constituency. At the last measurement, the Constitutional Court ruled that since these relations had already increased to 1:3,73, they no longer conformed to the Constitution because they had already deviated too much and had their consequences. As a result, he instructed the National Assembly to put an end to this. There would be two ways to do so; one would be to amend the basic electoral law, of course within the existing constitutional order, because any serious change in the electoral system would require an intervention into the constitution, but such an attempt to abolish electoral thefts has already been tried twice in this term in the National Assembly, but there were therefore insufficient numbers of votes. Indeed, we would need at least 60 votes from Members and Members in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, we now have before us the proposal that, within this existing constitutional order and on the basis of the existing law, we change what the Constitutional Court has pointed out in its decision, namely the greatest difference, the greatest deviation between the smallest and the largest constituencies. The proposal before us reduces this difference significantly below the measure 1 : 3, of which the Constitutional Court has already ruled several times in recent years that it is appropriate to allow it to be permissible, namely, it is now approximately 2.7. It covers 15 constituencies by covering those who give up, that is, by the number of inhabitants, the largest and the smallest. It combines or adds some of them to individual areas and some of the largest parts. As a result, the law, which we believe is consistent with the Constitutional Court's decision and meets the fundamental standard imposed by the Constitutional Court, states that it reduces these differences, but is still essentially such that it does not interfere as much with the existing system as possible, as this in practice increases the possibility that such a system is then adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Nothing helps if it's still such an ideal marriage if there's not enough support for it. For this reason, we propose that this saga should finally end with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has already expired, and that this law, which is before us, should also be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. Mag. Branko Grims will also present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u4	The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at 11. 2. Considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly and adopted it in the end. The largest part of the debate was the extent to which derogations were admissible to satisfy the Constitutional Court decision and there was also considerable controversy in relation to foreign cases. Here, in fact, we also need to know how to deal with this concept. The law before us is a reflection of a proportional electoral system. In the proportional electoral system, which we now have after the last amendment to the electoral law, which is the former d'Hondt, which stemmed from the remnants of changes, is being treated differently today. What does it look like in practice? That all votes for each list or, if you want, for every political party, are aggregated at the level of the whole country and then divided with the ratios – say, not percentages, but number of votes – a scale is made for all the parties in size and 88, as far as they are actually elected proportionally, is deleted and counted, how many times an individual party within this performance is counted. It is said that the size of the population or electorate in the constituency does not really affect this calculation. That is to say, the principle of electoral law or the equality of electoral law, which is a constitutional norm, cannot be affected at all. What is really in the game is just a proportion, which is then the result of the subsequent division, which first rotates for each party between the constituencies, of course in a falling order, and then also between the constituencies where the one that reaches the highest percentage is elected. In this regard, this is a big difference than where the constituencies are linked to the majority electoral system. There, however, is the issue of equality of electoral law. Of course, this is more important there because it is a question of equality of influence or the impact of an individual's vote on the election of a Member or a Member to Parliament. As a result, tolerances are much lower in the majority electoral system. In some countries, plus, minus 10 percent, in some 12, in some 15 percent. In a proportional electoral system, as it is said, the tolerances can certainly be significantly higher, especially in the current regulation in Slovenia, because d'Hondt's calculation is ultimately at the level of the whole country. And that based on all the votes that any list has received. As it was said, it was still the most controversial. The only suggestion expressed is that some derogations are insufficiently substantiated. However, the explanations that have been given are virtually the same as those I said in the introductory presentation and do not make sense to repeat them. Finally, the vote and the motion before you today was confirmed by 10 votes in favour and 7 against. This concludes the consideration of the bill at the Committee's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Boštjan Koritnik, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u6	Dear President, Mr Igor Zorčič, honourable Members and Members, distinguished citizens and citizens! There are several ways to achieve a common goal. However, I sincerely hope that this time you will not choose the one that is not – if I borrow or paraphrase a bit from the Zimzelen Slovenian composition. In adopting the legislation implementing the 2018 Constitutional Court decision, you have so far gone a number of ways, unfortunately not successful. However, I must point out that the Ministry of Public Administration has actively cooperated and sought a common denominator between political parties and professionals throughout this process. Our services have prepared several versions of the legislation, the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a priority vote. This proposal has, unfortunately, not been supported twice in this high assembly. And then there's more versions of the changes to the election circuits. You have been able to prepare and mediate your proposal for an amendment to the electoral thefts by representatives of all the parliamentary groups. Following numerous consultations and coordinations, and in accordance with the agreement reached with the President of the Republic, today before you is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly, which has been tabled by Members and Members in the parliamentary procedure. The new Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered at the end of January and gave an opinion that the proposed amendments to the electoral circuits followed the saying and explanation of the Constitutional Court decision, since all the criteria for determining the electoral districts, i.e. geographical rounding, common culture and other characteristics, in each constituency are approximately the same number of inhabitants, appropriately addressed. Derogation from which criteria are indeed justified by other criteria. The draft law rightly refers to two relevant aspects: professional, as regards compliance with legal criteria, and political, as regards the search for consensus between political parties. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly. As I know that the debate will also be about profession and unconstitutionality, I would like to point out a few more things before the end. I have been in politics for less than a year, but I quickly learned that there are many compromises to be found and so is the case with electoral legislation. 88 different wishes and proposals cannot be taken into account, regardless of who the Minister or the Minister of Public Administration is. Before I became a minister, I always worked to do something, not to put something in the drawer and wait there or wait for better times. I reiterate that the draft law rightly refers to two relevant aspects: the professional aspect of compliance with the legal criteria and the political nature of the search for consensus between political parties. Those who disagree will be able to try this again in the Constitutional Court, which I am aware of and am not afraid of. However, it is somewhat unhygienic that it is already a step forward in the shoes of constitutional judges and predicts their decision in the event of a re-judgment. Members and Members of Parliament recently, with almost plebiscite support from the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities, which we have also prepared for the MJU, have demonstrated that you can step together. That is why today I believe in a constructive debate and final support for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text will be presented by Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u8	President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister, all respectable! In the SMC Group, we are still convinced that the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a relative priority vote would lead to a greater or decisive impact of voters on the choice of candidates they elect, in order to fully satisfy the Constitutional Court decision of 2018. However, since such a proposal has not already received adequate two-thirds support twice, efforts have had to be made to look for another solution, which we consider to be less optimal than the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a preferential vote, but still legitimate enough to be decided today. In the SMC, we have taken the view throughout the coordination of electoral legislation with the President of the State that if, within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court, those amendments do not receive sufficient support from the majority of the votes of all Members and Members, we will also support another option to implement the Constitutional Court decision. So transforming election thefts by changing their borders. It is also because the Constitutional Court has found the anti-constitutionality of electoral law mainly due to changes in the number of inhabitants and the more than 10 years of organisation of local self-government. The Constitutional Court did not require the legislator to intervene more thoroughly in the electoral system, such as the introduction of a relative priority vote and the abolition of electoral thefts, but merely that, within two years of the publication of the decision, it is necessary to adapt the legal arrangements and limits of electoral thefts to the newly created demographic conditions and changes in the territorial organisation of local self-government. In particular, because a number of coordinations with the President of the Republic, at the meetings of the National Assembly and after the expert consultation of the President of the National Assembly have shown that there is unfortunately not enough political support for the abolition of the electoral districts and the introduction of a relative priority vote. And this is not our fault, because in both of these attempts, we have provided our support. Both the President of the Republic and the President of the Constitutional Court have repeatedly pointed out that this is one of the most important constitutional legal and political problems we are facing and that the inability to implement the decision in the last due time frame – and thus the inability to reach a political agreement and overcome a variety of interests – is worrying. In view of the above facts and the expiry of the deadline for the enforcement of the decision, there is no other choice than to try this time with a proposal to change the boundaries of the electoral districts. In the SMC, we have always tried to find the right political consensus. In 2019 the Ministry of Public Administration, in addition to the proposal to end the thefts, also prepared amendments to the electoral boundaries. At that time, we had two proposals for the regulation of the borders of the constituencies, and the Minister of Public Administration of the SMC, Boštjan Koritnik, on this basis and on the basis of the starting points of the consultation, which took place at the initiative of the Ministry and the President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, with the participation of constitutional lawyers, prepared a third version. The opinions of the section and the political parties at the consultation were different, and ultimately the opinion of the constitutional lawyers prevailed that the proposal for the transformation of the thefts did not have to focus only on the number of inhabitants or that it was permissible to derogate from these up to 15 per cent, as proposed by former Minister Medved, but should also take into account other criteria, such as geographical rounding and historical links. Therefore, a proposal was drawn up which allowed derogations of 25 per cent, in an exceptional case also more, i.e. up to 40. In the SMC, we are aware that this proposal for voters is nothing new and that changes will not have a significantly greater impact on the election of Members. We are also aware that some of the concerns or comments that some of the criteria are rejuvenating others, that a significant emphasis is placed on the number of residents in the most derogating regions and that in the rest of the law, the derogation indices are disproportionate and that in a large number of unaltered influences are justified. Nevertheless, we have decided to support the proposal in the majority. As already mentioned, it is a minimum possible political compromise that enjoys sufficient support to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u10	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! Two years ago, the Constitutional Court ruled on the Law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members to the National Assembly and found a basic three things; three quarters of the law was deleted; so all the articles that set the electoral boundaries; it provided that the three conditions must be met if these constituencies are to be the same as those required by the Constitution; they must be approximately as large; they must be geographically rounded and must have common historical and cultural characteristics. As soon as President Pahor began consultations on how to implement this decision of the Constitutional Court, it was clear to us that the transformation or new drawing of election thefts would be an extremely difficult task. This also proved to be the case when the Ministry of Public Administration, under the previous government, prepared some drafts, where we saw that, taking into account one of these criteria, we would quickly move away from the other criteria. Above all, this is a question of the relationship between the number of inhabitants and geographical and cultural properties. From this point of view, we have insisted in Levica all the time that it is necessary to take a step forward or step aside if you want; a step away from our individual and client interests in favour of a common good. It would be good for the general to end the constituencies, maintain the electoral units and give voters a vote of preference. True, there were two such attempts in the National Assembly, both of which were not successful. I have already said the reasons – because the individual interests of certain decision-makers have prevailed, which have estimated that it is better for the constituencies to be maintained in the form they are, because re-election is very likely to be ensured. What we have on our hands today is not the realisation of the Constitutional Court's decision. The proposal we are considering today is the instrumentalisation of this decision by the Constitutional Court. What's he doing? It does this by virtually eliminating the excessive imbalance between the smallest and the largest constituencies by simply deleting the smallest one or attaching it to the second and the largest fractions. But what is the concrete effect of this new drawing? That she's primarily an SDS client. Regardless of who the remaining signatories are under this law, she has thus drawn out some additional, politically beneficial ones in relation to the past results of the electorate, electoral thefts, which will be very likely in the next election – if they will – to bring more seats. It's a bottome line of this marriage. That's why we won't support this law in Levica. We believe that this is a typical case of so-called gerrymandering, which is said to be the drawing of election decorations for the design or for the removal of electoral results from the electoral base, and is wrong in this respect if it actually stems from the fact that it wants to address the constitutional concerns imposed by the Constitutional Court. I think we should make some more effort, after all, to actually end the electoral borders. Finally, these are more suitable for majority electoral systems, in a proportional electoral system, it is enough to have 8, 11 units, or as much as you want, and on this basis Members are elected after a proportional system. This should be the essence of the debate. Once again, she concluded that what is worth more to someone is what we have on the table today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In its decision in November 2018, the Constitutional Court found that Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly was inconsistent with the Constitution, and the National Assembly had ordered that the constitutionality found should be corrected within two years of the publication of the decision. This deadline has already expired in December last year. The Constitutional Judges found that the difference between the smallest and largest constituencies in the country by the number of electoral beneficiaries is too great and is increasing. With this, the government and the National Assembly have faced a politically extremely difficult task. The implementation of the Constitutional Court decision was either a very difficult change in the electoral borders or the abolition of those and the introduction of a preferential or priority vote. The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor has also actively engaged in the search for the right solution to implement the Constitutional Court decision. However, there have always been two possible solutions on the table for the application of the Constitutional Court decision. In Novi Slovenije, we have advocated the proposed solution in these talks since the beginning, which brings the abolition of the elections and the introduction of the preferred vote. We are still convinced that this would be the best way to eliminate the established anti-constitutionality established by the Constitutional Court. The Law on Elections in the National Assembly has been introduced into the parliamentary procedure twice, with which we wanted to abolish the constituencies, which, unfortunately, also did not receive the necessary support; it is said, 60 votes. As we have predicted, we have both supported the proposal for a law. Since the proposal did not receive sufficient support, we did not legislate in time the decision of the Constitutional Court, which thus raises questions about all subsequent parliamentary elections until the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. We are convinced that, in the event of a third vote, a proposal for the abolition of the elections would receive even less support, so other solutions should be sought to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. New Slovenia has always advocated that decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected. The proposal to amend the areas of electoral thefts tabled by the Group of Members is one of the possible solutions. Amendments to the law change the areas of the largest and smallest constituencies. The areas of the constituencies 4 are also changing with the seat Ljubljana-Bežigrad and 6 with the seat in Novi Grad. Here, due to an excessive deviation in the number of electoral beneficiaries, the entire Lithium constituency from the 4th to the 6th constituency is relocated. The areas of electoral unit 7 and 8 are also minimally changing. We have been in New Slovenia and we are confident today that we should seek broad support in finding a solution. It is also true that, in this mandate, it does not show that we would achieve the required majority of 60 votes in favour of amending the electoral system to abolish the electoral borders. If elections were to be conducted under the applicable legislation, they could certainly question the legitimacy of the elections. Maybe even some kind of trial would have been brought before the court. This doubt must certainly be eliminated in the light of the growing lack of confidence in politics, which is reflected in the increasingly low electoral participation in recent elections. The proposed amendments proposed by SDS Members, SMC and Desus are certainly minimalist, and follow the Constitutional Court's decision and are probably the minimum compromise that can be supported in this call by the National Assembly. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that today it is better to accept this correction of the electoral boundaries than to continue to leave the unconstitutional situation and even go to the elections. For all the reasons listed above, the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! When the Constitutional Court found, two years ago, that part of the law determining the size of electoral thefts was contrary to the Constitution, because the size of the individual thefts was so different or the number of inhabitants in them that the electorate was not in the same position, only the Constitutional Court in its own decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as a number of experts, had ordered two possible solutions to this unconstitutionality. One is the change in electoral thefts, with the Constitutional Court in a very large decision explaining precisely how these constituencies should change and which derogations would be appropriate if the law then complied with the Constitution, it is said, would no longer be unconstitutional. On the other hand, only the Constitutional Court has ordered, and even more experts, that this dilemma is solved by another solution, namely the introduction of a preferential vote; the introduction of a preferential vote, which will mean that the constituencies will be abolished and that voters within the same constituency, one electoral unit, will determine to whom they wish to give their vote. It is obvious that the first solution will prevail today, a solution that changes the electoral borders, with the fact that this solution does not change anything completely for the electorate. The voter will still come to the polls, have only one option, when within the party that supports him, he can surround him, this vote will be cast or not, and this remains his only option. All those who were so smart and so much as explained how many votes you received yesterday are the ones who didn't want the preferred vote to really see whether the voters supported you exactly and whether they support you or just support the party that put you on the right edge at the right time. We in the SAB party have supported the introduction of a preferential vote all the time; the introduction of a vote and an electoral system that would really change something for voters, which would give them the feeling that they have an impact on who is sitting in Parliament, and what we know may also significantly increase electoral participation. The Constitutional Court itself, in its decision – not to say that nothing has been written – said that this principle, which stipulates that voters must have a decisive impact on the mandate, is still not fulfilled. In its 33rd point of this decision, the Constitutional Court has specified that the Constitution does not refer to the impact of the electorate on how many mandates an individual list will receive, but rather to the influence of the electorate on which candidate will be given the mandate of the candidate. This can only be achieved in the final stage of the vote, it is said in the selection of candidates. This would be the only legal impact of voters that could only be achieved through a preferential system. We listened twice in the National Assembly to introduce a preferred voice, with two missing votes. They have always been against SDS and Desus, but every time a few other Members made sure that the vote did not have enough votes, even in the parties that supported this solution in principle. Thus we have come before this proposal, which I will be very unhygienic, as the Minister has said, and you have hoped to say that it is very possible that it will be declared unconstitutional. It is impossible to assert what the Constitutional Court will do in cases where the Constitutional Court has not yet ruled, but above all it is more possible to predict what the Constitutional Court will do when it has already ruled in the same or similar case or when it so accurately spells out the criteria as it did in this decision. And in this decision, it stated that a tolerance of up to 15 percent is allowed. Now there is a 30 per cent derogation, and if necessary more, if this is the case with the SDS party, who has been actively involved in writing this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a historic opportunity to change the law twice in time so that people can make a real decision and some are afraid of it. Now we have some minor repairs, we're fixing 15 election thefts a little bit – it's not going to be any different for the electorate. However, some of you have assured yourself that you will be reelected in the same way as ever. Sometimes we really miss historic opportunities. All those who today plead that you must support this, because otherwise it will impose an unconstitutional decision, you have already had two options to support a solution within a time limit that would also eliminate unconstitutionality, and you are not. We will not support this proposal in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u16	President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all colleagues and colleagues, as well as to the Minister in particular! Because it's a parliamentary position, I'm not going to argue with my colleague Masha, but we're going to try to clear this up between us. But I must also say that from the very beginning, a number of years ago, Desus has advocated what I will say or read in my position. In its decision of 8 November 2018 published in the Official Journal of the month and a half thereafter, the Constitutional Court decided as follows: The law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members to the National Assembly is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because the electoral districts are no longer appropriate due to the excessive difference in the number of votes of voters, such as Hrastnik 8 000, Grosuplje 32 000. That's why voters are in an unequal position because the ratio is already around 1:4. The constituencies today no longer meet any of the criteria set out in the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. Approximately equal number of votes, geographical roundness, common culture and other characteristics along the borders of municipalities. Letters, which are supposed to be political parties, have no decisive effect on which of their candidates will be a member of the National Assembly. Their impact is merely to determine where individual candidates will run for election. They can only guess about the election of individual candidates. Finally and decisively, voters have a say on who will be given the mandate. Therefore, the current legislative regime of the electoral system cannot be denied the conditions for the decisive impact of voters on the appointment of candidates. These are the key findings of the Constitutional Court, which also set a deadline for the elimination of this non-compliance, two years after the publication of the decision. The deadline expired on 21 December last year, but we still have not reached a sufficient political consensus to eliminate this anomaly. Since the beginning of 2019, the President of the Republic of Slovenia has endeavoured to reconcile the political nature of the implementation of the constitutional decision, but the necessary consensus has not been reached. All attempts to implement the majority electoral system have also fallen into the water. Members of the Desus Group did not vote in favour of this solution either, as constitutional lawyers did not question in any place, except that they found any non-compliance or inappropriateness with the applicable electoral legislation or system. Even more, it has been made clear that the current electoral system cannot refuse to meet the conditions for the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of mandates to candidates. So the current proportional electoral system is sweet with the constitution. Our parliamentary group remains an advocate of the proportional manner of the electoral system, thereby preserving electoral thefts for a single reason, decentralisation, which allows for the election of representatives of the people from the rural or periphery. Slovenia is a small country, so it is essential that Parliament reflects Slovenia as it is. That is why we are Members of our parliamentary group co-signatory under a proposal that follows a constitutional decision in its entirety, and this is the transformation of electoral thefts, which takes account of both the number of voters and the conditions such as geographical, cultural, functional and other connections. We are aware that there will be no line of borders at all, but it is necessary to find so much political will and, at the end of the day, wisdom to make corrections to the current borders of the electoral districts and thereby eliminate the anomalies and unconstitutionality of the current situation. The last proposal for a law setting the limits of election thefts follows as far as possible. The proposal fully preserves the number of constituencies, and also fully preserves the number of election robberies. Most election thefts leave intact because people have been used to going to certain places for elections all these years. The proposal to intervene, or amend, the borders of 15 election robberies, including several electoral units. The adoption of the bill will allow for the legal and legitimate election of representatives of the people at the next national elections. Such a proposal is acceptable to Members of our Group, so we will also support it in the majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u18	Nice greetings to all present. Today's point should be at least until 21. 12. 2020 on the agenda, as this was the deadline set by the Constitutional Court. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, we defend the view that all constituencies should be deleted. They simply need to be removed, as the most fair exercise of electoral rights would be in this way. The current arrangements and the proposed arrangements allow certain purchases with the cutting of Slovenia, thus indirectly allowing for an impact on the outcome of the elections. Each political party should draw up its own list of candidates on which only the best candidates could be included. The current regime poses similar challenges to the raffle, as you never know which candidate will be elected as a Member. The exclusive criterion should be the candidate's ability. With the political party forming its electoral list, only the best candidates could be placed on the top of the list. The elections should therefore be conducted in accordance with the rules now applicable to European elections. A list shall be drawn up simply for the entire of Slovenia by surrounding the party and the sequence number of the candidate in the box, which shall be in the election seat, and not the legislation which no one reads. Finally, we would like to point out that, in view of these issues, a framework agreement has already been reached with the President of the State, but because of his irresistibility or his silence, the process itself has failed. We have already had eight talks with him, so the current state of non-constitution is to a good extent the President of the country himself, which is comparatively absurd. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u20	As a matter of fact, he likes to go to third. Good-bye to all of you again! The Electoral District Act is now what we are implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. The deadline for this has already expired, and this law should have been adopted by the new year, but since we had two amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which is essentially in charge of this, of course this law has waited. The law, as it is, is a reflection of compromise. In the electoral system, it is always necessary to seek compromise and, in a given case, when it comes to the creation of electoral thefts, this is a compromise between the different criteria needed in the design of electoral thefts. It is said that one of them — in a given case, he was decisive — is the number of inhabitants or electors. The other criteria are historical connections, and daily migration links, joint projects, all that creates in people's minds some units that are quite strongly expressed in Slovenia because of the terrain configuration and, of course, because in Slovenia from 1945 until independence and for a while then Slovenia was divided into a relatively small number of so-called Cardelian municipalities, which are to some extent reflected in today's administration of administrative units. All of this has, of course, created certain links, certain common interests, and all of these are what needs to be taken into account in the design of election thefts. In the present case, as it is said, compromise was sought in order to be followed as far as possible. This is within the existing electoral system, within the existing constitutional framework. We know that we have a piece created in the constitution that commands a proportional electoral system. If we really wanted to make some major moves that would go in a more stable direction, which would require an economy, a more developmental electoral system, where on election day it would also be clear who is elected and who is the opposition, it would be necessary to cut into the constitution. But it takes at least 60 votes, and that's the job for another time. Today we are bound to constitutional order and to the existing electoral law. That is to say, all that can be done is to accept those fundamental corrections that eliminate precisely these greatest differences between the constituencies. Now, just a few words about it. The whole time this was happening, we're listening to how these changes are in favor of the SDS. That can only be said by someone who is sorry who really has no idea about the electoral system or who pretends to have no idea, and deliberately deceives. For what are the largest constituencies in Slovenia? It was precisely those in which SDS candidates were elected; SDS President Janez Janša was elected by the number of voters and residents in the largest electoral district, which was the district of Grosuplje. The division of this district, its substantial reduction now means that in practice it will address a significantly smaller number of people as the most respected member of the party. It is similar in other major districts, which means that this decision of the Constitutional Court and, of course, the amendment on it is justified, namely, the division of these largest electoral districts, in effect to the detriment of the SDS. Then how can some here insist, and I have already rejected this at a committee meeting, that it is in the interest of the SDS? Forgive me, to say that if we divide the electoral district, which is the largest and in which it will now be possible for the party president to address a significantly smaller number of people, and therefore logically the party's withdrawal will be slightly lower, that it is in the interest of the SDS – this can be said only by someone who is guided by either complete ignorance or simple human envy and, if you want, even stupidity. I would suggest we stop this kind of demagogism. The boundaries such as these are a reflection of the configuration of the terrain, which is a tribute to be taken into account objectively. If you give priority to just a number of voters, you get completely illogical constituencies, because in some experiments that the Ministry has also prepared in the past, we can also take a look. And they were connected to parts of Slovenia that require a 20km bend to come from one end to the other. That's not, excuse me, the surrounding constituency. Or that there was a mountain in the middle of the place two thousand meters high and something like that. These aren't the boundaries we're supposed to be. Therefore, as it is said, the law is a compromise. A compromise made to the greatest extent possible, in good faith, and I suggest we accept it. But if there are ever 60 votes for different, more radical changes, believe that when the constitution is changed, which would seek an appropriate compromise that would be a developmental one that would make a stable economic environment in Slovenia, myself and my party would be happy to participate. But this is a mission for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! After more than two years, the National Assembly will obviously not be able to harmonise the electoral borders, as stated by the Constitutional Court's decision. According to the letter of Marjan Šarc, only minimal repairs of some thefts are not in the spirit of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, as there are very large differences between the districts, according to the number of inhabitants, that remain. Thus, the fulfilment of the Constitutional Court’s decision is seen by the SDS party, which draws the borders of the election thefts in its own measure. I say this because I have some idea about electoral systems and because we have made this clear in the debate at the recent meeting of the committee. And he's drawing boundaries beyond professional legal opinions, past electoral geography experts and, of course, as usual, beyond coordination with the opposition. The borders change so that almost nothing changes, although in more than half of the margins of the derogations they are so large, even much more than 15% that this means a violation of electoral law and this is also stated in several separate opinions at the time of the Constitutional Court's decision. However, they are also plagued by some of those who, until recently, advocated the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a preferred vote. The solution to elect Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, as we like MEPs, was twice ripe for confirmation in this House, unfortunately some of you have accompanied it with a fig in your pocket. But in the List of Marjan Šarca, we still advocate a decisive impact with the possibility of giving a priority vote as the most fair way to vote for both voters and candidates. We are confident that sooner or later such a solution will also be legalized. With minimal revisions to the limits of election theft, the founders do not even hide your intentions to fortify and increase influence in environments that are the traditional SDS electoral base. Although the method of elections concerns the entire political space and the widest circle of citizens, you have narrowed and closed the circle of decision-makers, since the majority in Parliament is ordinary enough to change the boundaries of the electoral thefts, so you have not even tried to achieve a broader political consensus because it was not necessary. In a party that covers a fifth or a quarter of those who come to the elections, you have made such an important decision as this, how we will elect citizens and citizens, that is, all, not only supporters of the SDS, have voted, almost by themselves with the help of coalition parties, who have apparently accepted SDS electoral mathematics. By correcting us, you want to convince us that three times the size of the other is about the same size. Understand if you can! Last but not least, that's what the Legal and Legal Service has pointed out. The SDS’s claim to follow the Constitutional Court’s judgment is simply to manipulate and mislead not only political parties, but also voters. It's not about compromise. It's the forced solution of one party. In the letter of Marjan Šarca on the logic of the intended compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, if we do, we will do something and then we will see, we will not dock. Therefore, we will not support the proposed changes in the electoral borders.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u24	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At the end of 2018, the Constitutional Court found that electoral legislation was unconstitutional because the differences in the size of the existing electoral districts were too large and in particular no longer met the criterion that in each constituency there should be approximately the same number of inhabitants. This diversity of beloved thefts means, in particular, the inequality between candidates and candidates of the same list. At the same time, we must not forget that the differences in the size of electoral units have also increased significantly in the last 30 years, which represents a direct inequality in the electoral rights of voters, but this is very few. After two unsuccessful attempts to end electoral thefts and introduce a relative, optional priority vote to resolve this issue, today we have before us a proposal for a law that changes the boundaries of electoral units and the borders of electoral districts. Following the unconstitutionality of electoral legislation, the Social Democrats did not oppose any possible solution to the end of the unconstitutional situation in advance, nor did they oppose any changes in the electoral units and electoral thefts. However, as such changes in electoral legislation are an important political and social issue, it is important to seek the broadest possible consensus of political parties, which requires, in particular, good faith, mutual trust and equal involvement of political parties in the search for solutions. There certainly was no marriage solution before us today. Social Democrats, like the rest of the opposition, were not involved in the preparation of these changes, but a coalition led by the largest government party to lead and prepare electoral legislation took over. When the coalition decision fell, what kind of amendment should you have invited us to participate in the opposition, knowing that you do not need our support and that you can vote for the law yourself. You have acted in the way you imagine cooperation, which is obviously far from some equivalent involvement. As it is said, the bill changes the boundaries of electoral units and the boundaries of electoral thefts. We think that the best solution to this bill is far from changing the borders of the 4th and 6th constituencies in a way that makes electoral units much more balanced and comparable in size. virtually no one mentions this, but it does not matter if 11 Members and Members are elected in an electoral unit of 200 000 voters and if 11 Members and Members are elected in an electoral unit of almost 230 thousand voters. Such significant differences in the size of electoral units mean unequal electoral rights among voters, as the power of the electoral voter in the smallest electoral unit is significantly greater than the power of the electoral vote in the largest electoral unit. This part seems extremely important to us, as it goes in the context of the Constitutional Court's decision, even though the proposaler himself does not explicitly mention it in the introduction of the bill, which is ironic and speaks for himself, which changes are actually crucial for the bill-maker. The priority of the candidates, mainly from the largest government party, is merely to correct some of the existing electoral circuits. Why are we talking about repairs? Since serious efforts have been made to come up with a proposal to try more closely to follow the intentions of the constitutional decision and to a greater extent to balance the size of the electoral thefts, there has indeed been no. We are thus witnessing today the proposal that electoral districts continue to vary greatly in size and to a large extent deviate from some of the average size of the electoral district. Nor can we get rid of the feeling that Members and Members of Parliament have received the proposals of the electoral thefts they have prepared in the SDS and are stolen primarily at the wishes of its Members and Members. I can tell you that the new electoral boundaries are written in a yellow-blue color combination. It is true that the ratio of size between the smallest and the largest constituencies is slightly closer and the proposed ratio is 1:2.7 but in this case we also find it difficult to talk about districts with approximately the same number of inhabitants. According to the opinion of the Social Democrats, the law's proponents walk on thin ice. If such a proposal is adopted, it is highly likely that it will be forwarded to the Constitutional Court for constitutional review. Therefore, it is exclusively your responsibility, respected applicants, in particular from the SDS, that this bill is in accordance with the Constitution. It is obvious that, despite the fact that you have the opportunity to bring a relatively small correction of the electoral thefts before Members, and that today you have the opportunity to amend this legislation, as followed by the Constitutional Court's decision, you are doing exactly the same thing. Therefore, the Social Democrats will not give their support to such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE VOLATION LAW IN THE STATE CONGREGATION IN THE context of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by Member Felice Žiža and Ferenc Horváth. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Felice Žiža.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u26	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Egregio Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Un cordiale saluto and tutti presenti. Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! In recent years, members and members of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities have had a number of difficulties in enforcing our active and passive electoral rights with regard to the election of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the National Assembly. In the last 30 years, we have been closer to the majority electoral system, which we have been using all the time for the election of municipal councilors of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and for the election of members of the councils of the municipal self-government national communities in the national mixed areas. They also use it in many European countries, where members of indigenous national communities have one member elected to their national council. This same law or method of election under the majority electoral system also applies in Croatia, where members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities elect one member in the Croatian Parliament. That is why we Members of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities prepared a proposal for a law, or this law was already in the first draft of a law almost 30 years ago, in 1992. At that time, of course, a decision on the overly complex Borda system fell on the table. The board system, I'll give you a brief explanation of how it works to see how complicated it really is. At the moment, therefore, with the applicable law, members, voters of indigenous national communities, when they receive a ballot, must mark the priority order of candidates on the ballot, with numbers, of course, and for each first post received by the candidate, they shall receive as many points as candidates on the ballot itself. And for each of the next cities, he gets one less point. Then the points are summed up and the candidate who has obtained the highest number of points is the winner and is elected as the Member. However, it happens that several times our members, the voters of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, replace the selection of candidates in the priority order with the later scoring of the candidates themselves. And what do they do? To their candidates, those who are in fact seen as their main elected candidate are given points; that is to say, they give points to candidates, which has the opposite effect, on the contrary, of their actual will and thus put their candidate in the final place. That is why we decided, after years of debate in our circles, of course, the Italian and Hungarian national communities, that both Members should prepare a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, which introduces an election for the MP of both national communities after the majority electoral system. The difference would be that the electorate, a member of the indigenous national communities, would vote for only one candidate by surrounding the serial number that is before the name and surname of the candidate himself. The candidate who would collect the largest number of votes would win, not the points, as was the case with the Borda system. In the bill itself, we also propose a change in the number of signatures of voters, members of indigenous national communities. Of the current 30 signatures required for a parliamentary candidate, candidates should collect at least 1.5 per cent of all voter signatures that have the right to vote in elections for the Italian and Hungarian national communities. In short, this is a change of law concerning electoral legislation for members of indigenous national communities. The bill itself also contains proposals proposed by the National Election Commission and proposals proposed by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. At this point, I would like to thank the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina for his cooperation and for his assistance in drafting the law itself. However, I would also like to thank the predecessor, the former Minister of Public Administration, Rudy Medved, with whom we began to prepare this law. Finally, I would also like to thank the Director of the State Election Commission, Dusan Vukko, and all parliamentary groups and Members, Members and Members of Parliament who are in the process [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u27	Thank you very much, dear colleague Giz, we're a little short on time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u28	So I propose that the bill be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u29	Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially the leaders of the parliamentary groups, if I obtain your consent, please contact the Secretary-General, and we can also shorten the time between the adjournment of the meeting and the vote for example for 10 or 15 minutes. The next one has the word mag. Branko Grims, who will present the report of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you again! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government also considered this proposal at its urgent meeting on 11 February 2021. As has already been done here today, at a meeting of the committee, the representative of the motioners, Mr Felice Žiž, stressed that the electoral system, as it has now been for the election of representatives of the national communities, is complex that people do not understand that it is illogical in some moves in the eyes of people, and proposed simplification into a one-way majority electoral system. In addition, we also considered the proposal of the Republic Election Commission, which proposed an amendment and one amendment was also proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, all these texts of these proposals have been redrafted and merged into a single, negotiated amendment, which I then proposed for admission and was also adopted with the support of a large majority of Members and Members, it is said without a vote against. Everything that was adopted was, of course, accepted by an absolute two-thirds majority, as required by the Slovenian Constitution, and the final text of the law was adopted by the same procedure. So we'd need at least 13 votes for admission, we'd reached 17 and two were against it. It is said that the draft law was adopted at the second stage of the hearing. There are two reasons for that. The first is to allow representatives of the national community to simplify the electoral system, which has in some ways been avoided, as is actually the whole of our electoral system, which is enshrined in the existing electoral law, to avoid in this world. This system, which has been used by scoring in minority elections, may be partially comparable to that single transferable vote or transferable vote, as is known by Irish electoral legislation and some very exotic solutions elsewhere in the world have some similar elements. That's exactly what I have to say. I didn't find anywhere. Just like exactly the electoral system we have in Slovenia, when we have electoral units and within them, and it's essentially some kind of combined electoral system, you won't find anywhere. What, in addition to the existing simplification, was also an argument for this proposal, which was drawn up by the Republican Electoral Commission and took into account the comments of the information officer. She then completed it with her amendment to the government. The issue is that electoral legislation will now be redesigned so that a permanent internet connection will also be made possible, that continuous monitoring will be possible, that databases will be continuously linked and all of this will be possible, as you know, in Slovenia very rigorous requirements of the legal order when it comes to the processing of sensitive personal data and, of course, the storage of sensitive personal data. As it is said, it was finally adopted with regard to this amendment, which summed up all the best solutions that had been made in the previous proposals, and eventually the law was fully approved. I propose that, with an appropriate, absolute two-thirds majority, we accept it as the best possible compromise in a given constitutional order here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u31	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration of Boštjan Koritnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u32	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! The Government considered this proposal at its meeting on 21 January 2021. With all the positive or beneficial changes presented, we welcome, in our opinion, the appropriate allocation of the Ombudsman's recommendation, which he has pointed out in several of his annual reports, so that persons who are also deprived of their liberty for treatment or hospital treatment less than 10 days prior to the day of the vote, are also allowed to exercise electoral rights effectively. Accordingly, the Government supports and has no comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President, again. Good-bye, everybody! In Levica, we also discussed this proposal, saying that when the consultations with the President of the Republic began, we wanted some first-hand information, and we consulted or personally consulted with a number of members of the indigenous Italian national community as a resident of the bilingual area or area where this indigenous community lives. On the basis of these discussions, we have found that we absolutely all agree that the Borda system is outdated, indignant and that it needs to be replaced. That even a one-wheeled majority system has its own problems. It can lead to paradoxes, but it can certainly lead to an elected representative, I'll say, not a convincing proportion of the votes. In order to reinforce these criticisms, we have already discussed this bill on two working bodies in the past weeks, on the Commission on National Communities and on the Committee on Home Affairs, as the president has read the report, he would point out only a few things. Because we also need to understand that the national communities – or I am talking about the Italian national community – are not completely united about this solution. The opinion of the Coastal Self-Government Community of CAN Costier was not adopted by a prior and also by a broad debate between the entire Italian national community. So there were no discussions, no meetings with voters, no confrontations, no involvement of different stakeholders, no associations, no presidents of the Italian community, no Italian Union, if you want, and so on. Thus, for example, the isolational self-government of the national community at its meeting, this was, I think, the 5th regular meeting on 27 June 2019, adopted some conclusions. She decided it was absolutely necessary to abandon the Borda system. They also discussed that they had problems with the single circuit system for the reasons already mentioned. Councillors also debated the fact that a one-way majority system would act negatively primarily for representatives from smaller municipalities, such as the municipality of Ankara. At the time of the vote, the Council identified itself for the abandonment of the Board system and proposed the adoption of a two-way majority system. Five saints voted for it, two abstained and one opposed it. This was followed by one discussion among the members organised by the Italian Union and that was then that. Then the Coastal Self-Governing Community adopted its opinion as it was. This is also stressed by former Member Aurelio Juri, a member of the Italian National Community. Yesterday his letter was published in La Voce del Popolo, where he pointed out that not all the votes were taken into account. To conclude, I would like to read one of the thoughts of one of the members of the Italian national community, which discusses how the majority of the population should take into account and include members of the national communities. He says: "The real realization of the rights of national communities will only be achieved when the remaining political entities, parties and policies of the majority population are taken as their own efforts by the national communities. If national communities are to develop and prosper, they must be accepted at all levels and understood as their own and not as a foreigner who has to write the rules of the game himself and survive in his reservation. The State must become a carrier of the interests of the national communities and must provide the best legislative framework allowing for the full representation of the representatives of the national communities elected by the majority. The State must ensure that political participation is as wide and as accessible as possible, especially for such small communities, where the power tends to be concentrated in the hands of a handful of all." All of this underpins our criticism; the criticism that is far from being a capricious party to the majority population, but the result is that we have relied primarily on people, representatives of national communities, and not only on written positions of the institutional councils of self-government. These people who do not agree with the proposed amendment, because it is weak, have a democratic deficit, which means strengthening the strength of the elected officials and limiting competition and political participation, unfortunately have not been able to get a second vote. That's why we listened to these people in Levica, and we're not going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that I have received the agreement of the leaders of the parliamentary groups to shorten the pause from 30 minutes to 10 minutes. So I ask all Members to inform Members and Members that the pause will be shorter. Next comes Blaž Pavlin, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. We have before us a proposal for amendments to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly proposed by the Member of the National Communities Felice Žiža and Ferenc Horváth. In our parliamentary group, we met with the bill-maker, who presented to us the problems of the elections so far and the bill itself. And what are the solutions to this law? The bill proposes to amend or reverse the way in which members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities are elected to the National Assembly. For the election of members of the national community, the proposal no longer sets out the so-called System Board, but rather the one-round majority system. For a long time, there has been a desire to rescind the system, as voters in this system now have to vote in such a way that they mark the priority order of candidates with numbers from one to the next before the name of the candidate. The candidate who won the highest number of points has been elected. Doubts arise as voters often do not know whether to write the highest number on the selected candidate in terms of the allocation of the maximum number of points or to write number one as a priority order. It is also proposed to increase the required number of candidates' signatures, with 1.5 per cent of the number of electoral beneficiaries who had the right to vote in previous elections. Up to now, 30 signatures have been required to submit the application. This somehow increases the number of votes needed to submit the candidacy itself. The law also contains some other amendments that are more technical in nature and proposed by the National Election Commission, which improve the electoral process itself. This extends the period within which the parties may make proposals for members of the electoral committees. So far, it's been 10 days since the election call, and it'll be 15 days after the election. This means that they will be able to propose candidates and candidates and members of the electoral committees for voters, which will be previously appointed by the District Electoral Commission. The law also appropriately refers to the recommendations of the Ombudsman, who has repeatedly called for amendments to electoral legislation in his annual reports. Thus, voters who are unforeseeablely deprived of their freedom just before the elections or are admitted to a hospital or social security institution are, in the new way, provided that they can vote by post if they report this to the District Electoral Commission five days before the vote and provide appropriate evidence. The law also contains some solutions that will allow for the connectivity of a single information system to support the elections and referendums prepared by the State Election Commission with the register of electoral rights maintained by the Ministry of the Interior. The new system will thus allow automatic verification of candidates for elections to the National Assembly, as well as candidates for election committees. In New Slovenia we particularly welcome such and similar solutions that help to digitise the electoral process. In the future, we can probably count on the digital investment of both candidates for the elections and members of the electoral committees. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u38	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities have tabled in the legislative procedure a bill containing similar solutions to those of the SAB Group, together with the other co-proposals, twice the last two months. At that time, we wanted to change the procedure of the national elections in a way that envisioned the introduction of a preferential vote and the abolition of electoral thefts. In the SAB, we believe that only a preferred vote would allow voters and voters to have a decisive impact on the distribution of mandates, while at the same time abolishing electoral thefts would implement the Constitutional Court's decision. More than two years ago, the Constitutional Court found that the current size of the constituencies no longer meets any of the criteria set out in Article 20 of the Electoral Law in the National Assembly. As a result, the current regulation of electoral law does not fully comply with the constitutional principle of the rule of law. Unfortunately, there was not enough political will for our proposal for a law that would eliminate non-compliance with the Constitution. The draft amendment amends the electoral system for members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. This is a simplification of the system, which instead of the Bord system, introduces a one-way majority electoral system. Such a system will be more understandable for voters, as the voter will vote for only one candidate. The results of the elections will also be facilitated. The proposal also contains some other solutions that will facilitate the exercise of both active and passive electoral rights. Some additions, which will only improve the organisation and conduct of the elections, were also proposed by the State Election Commission. A legal basis is established to enable the connectivity of a single information system to support elections with a register of electoral rights, led by the Ministry of the Interior, the work of the State Election Commission will be significantly facilitated as the system will allow automatic verification of candidates and candidates. In accordance with the amendment, political parties will be given five additional days to submit proposals for members of the electoral committees to the District Election Commission. The practice has shown that the three-day deadline is too short and presents problems for political parties and that they will be able to make proposals for specific voters set by the District Electoral Commission. The amendment also regulates electoral rights for those persons who have been deprived of their liberty more than 10 days before the vote. The Ombudsman has for many years warned that these persons have been violated by the right to vote, since they have been prevented from participating in the elections. The period within which the District Electoral Commission is to be informed of the intention to vote shall be reduced from 10 days to 5 days. In the SAB Group, we welcome the proposed solutions and we will support the bill, but we want to make more radical changes to the electoral legislation, and we will strive to do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The law governing the right to vote and the provisions for the exercise of this right are fundamental in democratic rule. It is important in democracy to determine how, who, who, who and why votes should be cast. The law on the distribution of those who have the right to vote and the law on the way in which the right to vote is granted are the basic laws of the Republic. Election laws are laws governing processes in which electoral preferences are expressed as votes translated into the distribution of authority. The role and importance of changing the electoral system are often overestimated in politics and the public. While the electoral system can contribute to the consolidation and deepening of the democracy of a country, its impact is limited. The main amendment to the draft law under consideration concerns the amendment of the electoral system of members of minorities or national communities and the amendments proposed by the State Election Commission to facilitate the exercise of electoral rights relating to the implementation of the elections. Preferential voting systems also include ranking systems where voters classify candidates according to preference from the most acceptable to the least desirable. The voter divides a certain number of points by classifying candidates according to acceptability. This includes the Borda system by which members of the national communities are elected in the National Assembly. The practice so far shows that such a system is too complex and therefore needs to be replaced with a simpler one. The issue needs to be settled so that the vote for the electorate is not complicated, does not cause too many invalid votes and will allow for the rapid identification of the election results. Members of the Desus Group believe that a one-way majority electoral system for the election of members of the Italian and Hungarian communities is the right choice. We are mainly based on the fact that there are only 2 000 800 electoral beneficiaries of Italian nationality and 6 000 Hungarian nationalities. It is particularly important for us that the authors of the proposal are current Members of the two national communities. The second set of proposed amendments, however, refers to the warnings of the State Election Commission, which is competent and responsible for carrying out, monitoring and coordinating electoral procedures. They ensure that the elections in our country are held legally. In fact, it is a matter of addressing the shortcomings and inconsistencies of the existing electoral legislation and the non-compliance of existing provisions with the aim of improving the conduct of elections and the exercise of both active and passive electoral rights. This series of amendments is also unanimously supported by Members of the Desus Group. In democratic countries, elections win by successfully adapting political parties and other list holders to the prescribed electoral system. At the meeting of the home working body of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, the legislative changes were confirmed by 17 votes to two with only two votes against. This suggests that it is quite realistic that the necessary two-thirds majority will also be reached at today's meeting. Members of the Desus Group will contribute all our votes to this majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u42	Your Honor! We have before us a new law, which has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure by members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, which we warmly welcome in the Slovenian National Party Group. While the proposal did not receive much attention in the media, it is still very important. The Parliamentary Commission for National Communities and many others also support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, proposing, inter alia, a simplification of the system of election of representatives of both Hungarian and Italian national communities. The aim is to seek a simple, efficient and democratic way. In practice, over the years, it has been shown that members of national communities have had problems for more than 28 years, problems in the exercise of passive and active electoral rights. The currently valid, so-called Borda system, is in theory appreciated and recognized, but on paper or voter voters is incomprehensible, rather complicated, too complicated and so on. The problem is that voters are often reluctant to err and replace the ranking of candidates in the order of priority by later scoring, which may lead to abuse. In this confused way, because mistakes and mistakes occur, the candidate is placed in the final place or in the reverse direction, despite reading the voting instructions, which creates pure confusion and chaos. A more democratic, one-way majority electoral system is now proposed, which is already in force in the election of minority councillors. This will also reduce misunderstandings in identifying concrete electoral outcomes. The news is also that the candidate for the election, instead of 30 signatures that apply to both the Italian and Hungarian national communities, will have to collect signatures for 1.5% of the electoral beneficiaries. The fact that the case is disputed also shows that several cases have been brought before the Court in recent years due to the Bord system. However, some are increasingly inclined to introduce a two-way majority electoral system that reflects the will of an absolute majority, which they find more legitimate. It seems important to us that the submitted list of candidates, in addition to personal data, should contain birth data and EMHOs, which will allow for a more efficient simple verification of the submitted applications. The National Election Commission's collection is thus directly linked to the register of electoral law. The Ombudsman has also committed himself to allow detainees, persons being treated in the hospital or persons who are in a nursing home to exercise electoral rights. The latter solution will not result in a disproportionate increase in costs. If they report to the District Electoral Commission no later than 5 days before the vote, they may vote by post by attaching appropriate proof, confirmation or decision. I believe that now is the right time to regulate those provisions of the law that improve the organisation, the conduct of elections and the enforcement of those solutions that have proved welcome during the course of practice on the proposal of the State Election Commission. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Ferenc Horváth will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President! Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Žiža, the leader of our Group of Members, has actually said a lot about these matters, and I would not like to repeat it either. Today I hope that one long story will somehow end, because we can say that for decades in fact the representatives of both the Italian and Hungarian national communities have been trying to change the way in which a Member is elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However, several times in the past there has been insufficient political will here in the National Assembly, as we know it is a two-thirds law. The board system is, I believe, as the predecessor said before me, in theory it may have been a very good idea, but in practice it seemed very complicated many times. To be honest, sometimes the members of the electoral commission did not know exactly how to properly fill out the voicemail. Since simple solutions are often the best in life, we have therefore somehow decided to propose a change to the electoral system, namely a one-way majority electoral system. It is also important to say that this solution was supported by the two umbrella organisations, both the Coastal Self-Governmental National Communities, even by a single vote, while the Council of the Hungarian Self-Governmental Communities was divided on this issue, although they were mostly in favour of changing this system. So we can say that the whole process was carried out in agreement with the representatives and members of both indigenous national communities. I would also like to thank Mr Boštjan Koritnik, as well as his predecessor, Mr Rudi Medved, with whom we have actually started this journey, and I hope that we will end it today. Thank you very much, too, the National Election Commission, which has taken a very positive approach to this proposal. In view of the constructive dialogue we have seen both on the Commission for National Communities and on the working body, I believe that we will support this change today or that you will support it by a two-thirds majority. That is why I would also like to thank all the Members of Parliament, all of them. And, as I said before, we hope that this story will be concluded today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u46	Say good-bye to everyone again! The law before us not only respects the will expressed by the national community, both by an appropriate vote, but now, through the amendment adopted, also significantly facilitates the introduction of electronic systems into the control and execution of elections and thus only the execution of electoral procedures. As far as the electoral system for the election of representatives of the national communities is concerned, so far it has been very good in theory, and in practice it is difficult to understand and has repeatedly failed. Voting theory knows many such solutions, which are very good on paper and in practice difficult for people to understand. Maybe one interesting piece of information. You will not believe that even the German implementation of the combined electoral system is, according to the surveys that the Germans themselves have been doing, but it has been used for decades and decades, incomprehensible to a considerable number of people who are moving there even to one third of those who are obstructing the vote, do not participate in the elections or simply vote in such a way that they do not really understand the full effect of their second vote. It is clear, therefore, that when electoral legislation is defined, it is necessary to follow solutions that are simple for people close to them, which are understandable to them, which then enable them to make real democratic decisions. Democracy, when it comes to elections, requires a lot of elements. First and foremost, of course, is the freedom of the public word that people have the right information. Then the very conduct of the elections, which must be flawless, its control as well as the manner of voting and then the electoral results expressed. This must also be understandable to people, for while they lose confidence in the electoral system, they are either not present or then there are complications, lawsuits, mistakes. All of this is now being done by the proposed law to the greatest extent possible within the existing constitutional order, which is a problem for itself, but is improving. The electoral system itself, as will be introduced after this proposal, is simply a one-way majority electoral system, just as everyone knows it, if not otherwise from local elections, and is simple and understandable to everyone. On the other hand, by amending the electoral legislation with this amendment, adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy, the possibility of carrying out individual procedures electronically and, on the other hand, for continuous communication between different levels in the implementation and control of elections will be introduced, with full respect for – in Slovenia, although very strict – the legislation governing the databases, in particular the sensitive personal data sets, and then also determines how much time and for what purpose these collections can be used and how long they are stored. All these are the reasons why we will unanimously support the proposed law in the SDS Group today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u48	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The amendments to the electoral legislation for the election of members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities to the National Assembly have been on the agenda for the third time in the last year. The proposed solutions were the hostage of the broader amendments to the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, which, among other things, ordered the abolition of the electoral thefts and, as is known, were not adopted. That the existing electoral system of members of the national communities caused difficulties in the exercise of the active and passive electoral rights of members of the national communities, we agreed with both Members when we prepared amendments to the Electoral Law in the National Assembly at the Ministry of Public Administration in 2019 in response to the decision of the Constitutional Court, so, on a proposal, as already mentioned by the honourable fellow Member, we included simplifications in the law. The so-called Borda system, followed by the elections of members of the national communities, is indeed a complex and one-way majority system for the electorate, when the electorate votes only for one candidate, so is a better and, above all, a simpler solution. This time, these changes seem to have a good chance of being confirmed despite the two-thirds support required. At the same time, the amendments proposed by the National Election Commission. Here is a particularly important change that provides the legal basis for the connectivity of the single information system to support elections and referendums with the register of electoral rights. At the Ministry of Public Administration, at the time of the government of Marjana Sarca, we signed an agreement with the State Election Commission on joint cooperation in the project to provide a single information system to support elections and referendums. The Ministry provided professional support and part of the funding, and the system is expected to be operational or will be operational next year. This will finally give the country a unified information system to support the elections and referendums, which, which I think is extremely important, will also be managed by itself. For information support, the National Election Commission is now using three applications, which means high costs, as well as a certain risk, since it is not the owner of the applications and is in the management of private companies. That the regime was not only irrational, but also risky, showed a complication by communicating the election results in Cyprus at the local elections in December 2018. While the case did not in any way affect the outcome of the elections, it was a serious enough signal that the state urgently needs its own information system, which it will manage and take care of its security. The proposed amendments will thus create a legal basis for the full functioning of the electoral information system. Otherwise, we will support the proposed amendments to the law in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u50	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me just say in the introduction or give my support to MEPs and members of the Social Democrats for the amendment to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. The proposed solutions relate to changes in the electoral system of members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and to technical and organisational solutions that will in practice improve the exercise of electoral rights for certain groups and some solutions will also affect a more efficient electoral process. In short, the electorate and electorate of the Italian and Hungarian minorities will elect their representative in the territory of the municipalities where the national communities live more easily and more transparently. The Bordo electoral system for members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities is launched after 30 years, replaced by a simpler and circular majority electoral system. The voter will vote for only one candidate or candidate. Entry conditions for a Member's candidacy shall also be adopted. If 30 voters' signatures were to be collected under the candidacy now, 1.5 per cent of all voters who had the right to vote in the last parliamentary elections would need to be added. The percentage of the number under the candidacy is also more appropriate due to the significantly different number of Italian voters on the one hand and Hungary on the other. Since the proposed solutions came from members of both minorities, there is no reason to oppose the proposal. We know that due to the two-thirds majority of all Members and Members, the amendment of the law is difficult to bring through the procedure, especially when the proposed solutions are linked to articles that change the election of the 88 Members and Members. So now is the opportunity for us to adopt proposals of a technical-organisation nature, if we can tell them so. These are solutions that have been pointed out for years by the National Election Commission, such as public awareness of the list of candidates, extending the deadline for political parties to propose candidates and candidates for election committees, simplifying the work of the State Election Commission and so on. By adopting this proposal, the law also establishes a legal basis for the connectivity of two information systems or records to verify the passive electoral rights of candidates and candidates nominated in parliamentary elections. They are preparing a new information system on the National Election Commission, which is due to be held until the next regular parliamentary elections in 2022. It is also right to point out in this place the Ombudsman's multi-year efforts to complement electoral legislation with the addition of persons who have been deprived of their liberty in excess of 10 days before the vote, or who have been unexpectedly admitted to hospital or institutional protection of social security law, and to enable them to exercise electoral rights effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that, according to the vote on the parent committee, we will take a step forward in some areas of electoral legislation with the proposed solutions to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u51	Thank you very much. And last but not least, Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u52	Thank you very much again for your word. The draft amendment governs those provisions of the Elections Act in the National Assembly which improve the organisation and conduct of elections for electoral authorities. These are solutions that have already been included in both the January and November proposals and have not received the appropriate majority. The solutions were prepared within the framework of the Interdepartmental Working Group, which worked with the Ministry of Public Administration, which included the Service of the State Election Commission. In addition to these solutions, the amendment of Article 8 of the current law or amendment of the coalition adopted on the home working body will establish a legal basis for the management of computer collections of lists of candidates and members of the electoral committees by the State Election Commission with a view to providing technical support to the elections. The draft law also appropriately refers to the recommendation of the Ombudsman, who in his annual reports regularly called for the addition of electoral legislation to enable persons who, later than 10 days before the day of the vote, are unexpectedly deprived of their liberty or who have been admitted to hospital treatment or otherwise, to exercise electoral rights effectively. The Novela also includes a change in the electoral system of members of indigenous national communities who are elected after the so-called Borda system. It's an electoral system when at the same time, in one round, what the electorate should do in two rounds. According to the indigenous national communities and their electoral authorities, the system is too complex because they often replace the ranking of candidates in the order of priority with a later score, which is contrary to their actual will, since they place the candidate they wanted to place in the first place in the latter and vice versa. It therefore makes sense to simplify it in a way that introduces a one-way majority electoral system, which also applies in all countries where national communities have a recognised right to head office in the national Parliament. In the SMC Group we also support this change because in the Republic of Slovenia we have 12 different electoral systems for elections at all levels, state and local authorities. In doing so, it is important to listen to the opinion of the self-governing national communities. In the past, there have been several attempts to restrict the rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, which were largely successfully prevented by the Constitutional Court. On several occasions, proposals were also made to abolish the so-called double electoral right and so on. Minorities are particularly threatened and, in order to maintain and develop, to feel safe and equal, their members have special rights, such as the double voting right already mentioned. However, their use or how their Members should be elected must, in our view, decide independently, without interference from the outside. We will therefore support the new law in the SMC Group. Perhaps the proposal could also follow the solutions contained in the above-mentioned amendments to last year's laws, namely on greater gender balance in the regulation of passive electoral rights or in candidateing. Gender equality is one of the fundamental values of the European Union and the Member States of the Council of Europe. In the SMC's view, there is no valid reason why the minimum percentage of representation of each gender in the elections to the National Assembly differs from that of the proportion, which is at least 40 per cent of the representation of both genders in local elections and in the elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. The difference between the current and proposed proportions in the list of 11 candidates on the candidate list in the electoral unit would mean that in the case of one of the genders, one more candidate would be awarded. In the future, however, it is necessary, according to our assessment, to make more political efforts for these changes as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place in 10 minutes, in accordance with the meeting's timing and agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and the 60th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote in 10 minutes, at 4 p.m. and 10 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 15.58 p.m. and resumed at 16.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u54	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will first vote on the 1st and then on the 2nd item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting debate. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda – the third is the draft law on amendments and additions to the proposal of the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly in the context of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, my colleague. On your own? Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[Yeah.]] Yeah. First, my friend Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, President. We believe in the Marjan Sarca List that there is a great risk that the proposed borders of election thefts are also constitutionally disputed, as the Constitutional Court has challenged exactly what this solution now preserves, and this is a significantly greater gap in the size of electoral thefts by number of inhabitants than could be allowed. While the Constitutional Court does not state in its decision where this limit is located, it is clear that if one district is almost three times the size of another district, the number of inhabitants is not nearly the same. Therefore, it is the SDS' claim that the proposal follows the Constitutional Court's judgment, in our view, more manipulation and deception not only by political parties but also by voters. It's not a compromise, it's a forced solution. In fact, it's a blur, if you're better than nothing, then let the Constitutional Court know if that's okay. In any case, it is a much cleaner and fairer solution to the abolition of the thefts and the introduction of a priority vote, which some in this House have accompanied with a fig in your pocket. The commitment to the constituency and the predictability of the election have been put before the interests of the electorate, who, after 30 years, would have the first chance of having a real impact on who would represent them in Parliament. We will not support the proposed electoral borders in the Marjan Sarca List.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u57	Nor will we support the SAB party in this proposal. We are absolutely convinced that the only right way for people to really get influence from those sitting in the National Assembly would be to introduce a preferential voice. At the end of December, there was a vote in the National Assembly on this; unfortunately, the proposal, under which we were also signed or co-signed, did not receive support. However, I join the view that if this solution is adopted today, it does not, in our opinion, solve the problem of unconstitutionality and will have to be resolved once again in a short time. As we say, we are convinced that the only preferred voice would give people a greater or the greatest possible influence on who is sitting in the National Assembly. People too will see or have seen who is actually afraid of this preferential voice. We will not support this law in the Sab party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Don't you? Then, in his own name, Comrade Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u59	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Introductoryly, he's a mag. Grims well explained that, in essence, these legislative changes will not affect the country's level of mandates, but will affect the division of vote within the electoral unit. If we wanted and were truly honest and honest to give a direct vote to our candidates and choose one, we would support – I'm sorry that a few votes have run out – the abolition of election thefts and the granting of a preferential vote would be the most correct and fair. In his opening remarks, the Minister said that every law, including this compromise, on the one hand, on the other hand, has a political part. You have drawn up this legislative proposal and there was no other political work, at least the opposition in these last drawings was definitely not involved. Also from the SMC, SDS and Desus discussions, I think that there's a lot that they didn't draw, that in fact what we got on the table today is more than a SDS wish, but it is. Smaller places with these changes are, of course, losing the opportunity for Members, I will not say that they no longer have it; we will have to do a little more. But because all of this was not taken into account neither geographically nor culturally, nor historically — all that was mentioned. Last but not least, I think that local communities should also be a little involved in such changes. Since all of this has not been done, of course, I will not give my own voice to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I believe that the law before us does not pursue the objective of implementing the constitutional decision as it should, given that Members are pursuing the objective of the Constitution and the legislation. In fact, the solutions that are in this law still contain 48 constituencies that deviate from that ideal average. The proposal to change some electoral units that already had the right number of inhabitants is now falling and moving away from the ideal average of more than 20 percent. Last but not least, that significant imbalance between the population of individual constituencies has not yet been resolved. What is crucial to me, however, is that in such changes to electoral legislation the electorate still has no decisive influence on who he will elect to elect to the National Assembly. So I think that electoral legislation needs to be regulated at a broader level, as has already been proposed in this national assembly, but unfortunately this stage of listening has not been achieved. As I say, however, I do not believe that the bill itself pursues the objectives of implementing the constitutional decision to the extent that it is taken into account. In fact, before this, I have a feeling that it is reaching and exploiting this law to achieve some of the personal political objectives of the largest government party. That's why I can't support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Janja the Servant in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u63	Yes, thank you very much. I must say that it is necessary to say first why we have even taken action to amend this legislation. The reason, of course, is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which very nicely stated what the problem is. The problem is that the electorate has no decisive influence on the choice of the candidate, that the power of the individual voter's voice due to the differences that have occurred in all these 26 years from the point of view of individual electoral districts and their comparability is very unequal. If we have made changes due to this constitutional decision, then I expect the result we have on the table to be a follow-up to this decision. Notwithstanding the fact that the SMC has taken all the time to end the electoral thefts and introduce the preferential vote, I am also aware that at this moment what we have on the table is in fact the only way that will at least get closer to what the Constitutional Court has said. However, it must be said that in the coalition on the table we also had a proposal for a law which, following the professional background and consistent follow-up to the Constitutional Court's decision, was prepared by Minister Koritnik and the Ministry of Public Administration and I myself assess that the proposal was significantly, significantly better, but, of course, given the political will and, of course, that everyone sitting here assesses this support only by what happens in his constituency, the possibility of that proposal being adopted is, of course, unrealistic. That's why we have what we have on the table. I don't think we can agree to a ratio of 1:36, now it's turning into a benefit of 1:2.7. I do not think that this follows what the Constitutional Court has said, so I cannot support this proposal, which we now have on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukich in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'll be short and saily. With the SDS mapping and some of these election pyruets, you won't see my voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I cannot support this law absolutely for two reasons. The first reason is that, in the KUL coalition, we have twice proposed the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a preferential vote, which would actually give voters and voters the opportunity to choose their own candidates in the elections. Why shouldn't the electorate be the one to decide? How about a little caricature – for example, are they voting for Lidija Ivanuš or Mr Pojbič? It would be good to have this choice. The second reason is that, in fact, these changes in electoral thefts do not follow the Constitutional Court's decision, they may be getting a little closer, but they are not small enough to satisfy what the Constitutional Court has said. And third, respected and respected, this bill was made in secret, within the framework of government cabinets. The opposition had no opportunity to cooperate and comment on the proposal itself. And of course, logically, solutions are coordinated or targeted in favour of the largest government SDS party. That is why I will not support this proposal. It surprises me, however, that apparently the majority in Parliament are afraid of the greater impact of the electorate and the electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-16-SDZ8-Izredna-60.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 28. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing everyone that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would have made the proposal inconsistent. Before voting, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 80, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the law will be adopted if two thirds of all Members and Members vote for it, 60 or more. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 9. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 60th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
