ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 76th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, paragraph 2 of Article 60 and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 108th meeting. 6. 2021. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Branko Simonovic since 15:00, Vojko Starović, Marko Bandelli, Maša Kociper, Janja Sluga, Sam Bevk, Dr. Franz Duck and Mag. Dušan Verbich. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, participation outside the meeting of the Assembly shall not be announced by any Member or Member of the Parliament using a remote-session application in the form of a videoconference. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the sitting of the National Assembly shall be decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly on a daily basis and therefore shall not be voted on. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Proposal for a Decision announcing a constitutional act on Supplement II. Chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 75th extraordinary meeting, held on 27 May 2021, the National Assembly adopted the Constitutional Law on Supplement II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly shall, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 182 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, declare the Constitutional Law no later than eight days after its adoption, unless at least 30 Members request that the amendment of the Constitution be submitted for approval to the electorate at the referendum. The request for a referendum has not been submitted, so the National Assembly may announce the Constitutional Law on Supplement II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Law of the National Assembly shall be proclaimed by the adoption of a decree on a declaration. The draft decree was tabled by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Nice greetings to all present guests as well! Before us is the last step in the constitutional and audit process of this time complementing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At the last extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we adopted Supplement II. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. With it in the Constitution, in the new 62.a., we wrote that in Slovenia are guaranteed the free use and development of the Slovenian sign language. In municipalities where Italian and Hungarian are also official languages, the free use of Italian and Hungarian sign language is ensured. The use of these languages and the position of their users is governed by law. Regarding the language of the deaf, the first in the world, we wrote in the Constitution that in Slovenia there is a guarantee of free use and development of the language of the deaf, which will be regulated by the law. In accordance with Article 171 of the Constitution, the amendment and completion of the Constitution shall enter into force by a declaration in the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 182 provide that the National Assembly shall declare the Constitutional Law amending the Constitution no later than the eighth day following its adoption at the meeting of the National Assembly. With the adoption of the decree on the proclamation, the Constitutional Commission, following the drafting of a proposal for a constitutional law on plenary treatment and decision-making, which was the subject of the 75th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, also prepared a proposal for a decree on the publication of the amendment to the Constitution in question. On the basis of the second indent of Article 2(2) of the Decree establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission is competent to draw up proposals for resolutions declaring constitutional laws amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Since at least 30 Members, or in our case, none of the Members, within eight days, proposed that the adoption of the second chapter of the Constitution be decided by the electorate at the Constitutional and Audit Referendum, the National Assembly may proceed to the proclamation of the constitutional supplement in question. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this High Council at today's 76th extraordinary session adopt the proposed decree and announce the eleventh amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This time, the addition of the second chapter of the Constitution and the writing of the sign language and the language of the deaf blind to the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, we are witnessing an important moment in the National Assembly, because we have listened to Members and Members who do not hear us. In the SMC Group, we are pleased and proud to have followed the expectations of the deaf and deaf and the deaf and, with the addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, article 62a, we have ensured the free use and development of the Slovenian Sign Language and the language of the deaf in the municipalities where the official languages of Italian or Hungarian are also Italian or Hungarian Sign Language. Slovenian sign language and language of the deaf are native indigenous languages of these groups in Slovenia. They have been classified as minority languages in Slovenia and have so far not enjoyed constitutional protection. Persons with hearing impairment have been striving for a number of years for equal social treatment and constitutional recognition of the Slovenian Sign Language, this is what will happen today. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia includes, among other things, freedom of expression, electoral rights, education and education, the right to use its mother tongue and writing and so on. Agreement and language and the right to use them are essential for social inclusion and the exercise of fundamental human rights. Today, we are following a noble objective to ensure that, at constitutional level, deaf users of the Slovenian Sign Language and deafly blind users of the tactile sign language are provided with a constitutional legal basis for appropriate measures to enable them to effectively exercise the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms as set out in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Slovenian sign language was still not equal to Slovenian language until now, as it predominates marked ignorance and ignorance in the public. Thus, deaf children today are severely disadvantaged in their education. They learn in a language that is not really their mother tongue. Persons with hearing impairment as their indigenous language use Slovenian sign language so they face many obstacles in the areas of education, employment, the exercise of civil rights, political and cultural rights. From now on, it will be different, better for all deaf, deaf and blind. We support the entry of the Slovenian Sign Language into the Constitution in the modern centre Party Group because we believe that it is high time for Slovenian Sign Language to become recognized as adequately protected constitutional matter. Again, it is time to listen to the deaf, the deaf, and the deaf in their tongue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u6	Dear fellows and fellows, distinguished guests! Today, the final act before us is related to the entry into the Constitution of the Slovenian Sign Language. Since the first meeting of the Constitutional Commission on this subject, proceedings have been under way for two years. At certain points, it has also gotten a little stuck, but it is important that we have speeded things up this year and have now brought them to the end in less than three months with crucial consideration. In March, we confirmed the decision on the basis of which it was possible to have procedures for entering the Constitution. Last week, however, we confirmed a proposal for a constitutional law that only needs to be announced today. Both in March and May, we have heard presentations of the positions of the groups of Members, and it is actually difficult to find or point out anything else that has not been said. We have virtually all agreed that this is an extremely important milestone, which should ensure that deaf, deaf and deaf people are provided with at least approximately equal opportunities compared to hearing or hearing people and contribute to their easier integration into society. We also shared the belief that things should not stop at this symbolic level alone. Today’s proclamation of the constitutional law is in fact the first condition for the deaf and the deaf to be able to do what is rightfully theirs. The issue will not end today’s announcement, but it will actually start now. It is the Government that has the power, as well as the duty to ensure that the entry into the Constitution has actual effects and that the right to use the sign language will also be effectively implemented. The greatest impact will, of course, be the provision of sufficient resources to enable the development of this language to continue, and we expect the Government to take due account of and provide the necessary resources in the next budget of the Slovenian Sign Language. We really do not want anything similar to water to happen in the exercise of the rights enshrined in practice. The rights to drinking water have been guaranteed by the city in the constitution on our initiative since 2017, and then things have stopped quite a bit. The sectoral laws that should be changed are not or are even worse during the current government, which is why we are going to the referendum on 11 July. In the case of Sign Language users who have already been sufficiently disadvantaged, this simply cannot happen. The Secretary of State, who has assured that the matter will not be a dead letter on paper and that the Ministry of Labour will keep an eye on the necessary legal adjustment, we will, of course, take the floor. As already stressed on previous occasions, let me say again that we are aware that entering the Constitution will not erase the contempt, neglect and injustices that have occurred for decades to many deaf, deaf and deaf people. We hope, however, that it will contribute significantly to changing the situation, starting points and possibilities of all those for whom it is not too late. We are proud to be part of this important story and to support the change of the Constitution, of course, and we are very proud to support the proclamation of the constitutional law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. Everyone in the hall has a lovely greeting! As has been heard many times, communication is the essence of man. The inability to communicate with the rest of the world means being cut off from the world and thus being disadvantaged in the exercise of many human rights and freedoms. Communication with the world in the broadest sense is essential for inclusion in society; it is essential for an empowered and full-fledged life. Deafness, deafness, deafness are specific disabilities that many people do not take as such, but they are, however, because people with hearing, speech, disability and disabilities in their daily lives run into many obstacles. Sign language and deaf language are, in fact, the mother tongues of people affected by hearing problems. They are the basic and only languages for contact with the outside world. The recognition and the right to freedom of use in all areas of life and the possibilities for the development of these languages are so fully justified, constitutional assumptions on which it is expected that in the future a mosaic of better opportunities and opportunities will be built for people who today, due to hearingable speech flaws, do not enjoy an equivalent position to what they hear. Today we formally conclude by amending the highest legal act of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution is thus given a new article today, which gives them Slovenian, Italian and Hungarian sign language, and the language of the deaf blind their place, as well as the possibility of further care and development. The text we confirmed at the 75th regular meeting of the National Assembly received more than the required majority. Today, in the Desus Group, we will also contribute our votes to the adoption of the decree, which will allow for the validity of the text of the new Article 62a of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u10	Your Honor, at this beautiful moment, everyone has a very nice greeting. Slovenia is a legal and social state, according to Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution. This means, of course, that no one remains forgotten that a country that is deprived of a certain objectivity allows everyone to cooperate fully, to live a full life, to be an important, equivalent part of Slovenian society and country. In politics, however, it is important to count the actions, not the words and actions of today, to register the right to use the language of the deaf and the deaf of the blind in the Constitution, an action that proves that we respect everyone in Slovenia, appreciate everyone and want to enable everyone to do what the Slovenian Constitution gives him, which is based on human ethics, which is consistent with the values on which the independent Slovenian state was established. The process that began three years ago, which I led as then President of the Constitutional Commission, is today at that point when it experiences its implementation. Then he was followed by a committee led by the Magi. Thirsty. This process is somehow formed in an article of the Slovenian Constitution, which will mean the right and duty to ensure that everyone has the ability to communicate, in all key points of his life, even in education, in a language that he understands, because if we want to enable someone to be an equal member of society, it is certainly the first step to enable him to communicate with others in a way that he understands and allows him to fully develop his human potential and, of course, to realize them as an equivalent part of Slovenian society. From this point of view, as a symbolic act, this moment is extremely important and precious. In the SDS we are happy and proud to have participated in the design and design of this space and the Slovenian Constitution today, by entering sign language, the language of the deaf and the deaf, into the Slovenian Constitution. When it comes to the language of the deaf, let us not forget, we are the first in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u12	It's a beautiful day for all of us today. In fact, we have faced problems that some have lived for more than 200, 300 years. However, today, we are talking about the Slovenian Sign Language. What does that even mean? This really means that we are basically equal to all of us, together. Are we? When I was 18 years old, I asked my mother only one sentence: "Mother, how long do I need to explain to a deaf person who doesn't understand, is this twice, three times?" And she answered me with a simple answer, which I admit for a few years, I didn't understand. "You know, son, as long as they don't understand." And for so long, they are fighting so that all of us hear them understand that they live in their cultural world with their rights. We all say they have some kind of drawback. You know, they don't feel it, they don't have the deficit, but they have the rights and that's what they need. In a different discussion, someone said the following sentence: “Someone builds a monument.” They don't need any monuments, they just need the same options and from there we'll be equal. Thank you all for this support, and in the LMŠ Group we support and support all further development of this beautiful, beautiful language. Thank you. [[Applause]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u14	Thank you so much for your words, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dearly honored fellows! According to these words, colleague Jani simply has little more to say, but nevertheless. We have always supported the process of supplementing the Constitution by recording sign language. We have supported a constitutional law that includes not only sign language, but also the language of the deaf and thus the logical move that the uniform support of the Social Democrats' Group is to the Constitutional Act. There has been a lot of talk about the Constitutional Law, but let me do it anyway. The entry into the Constitution of the Slovenian Sign Language and the Language of the Deaf is an important historical act, and this action is primarily the commitment of the State and its institutions to take appropriate steps in the area under consideration, namely the consistent implementation of the already adopted legal standards of the Slovenian Sign Language Act and the preparation of a law that will facilitate the life of the Deaf Blind. At the same time, our priority should also be to allow for a wider transmission of sign language and the language of the deaf among young people. Otherwise, this positive intention of us Members and Members will remain written only on paper, of course we do not want it. Of course, the Social Democrats will unanimously support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The President of the Constitutional Commission initially said that this was the last step in this path of constitutional change, which, of course, is true, today's decree on the proclamation of the Constitutional Law is the last step in this formal procedural sense, but we note that this must also be the first step, this last step actually led us to the beginning, at which much work is still to be done, and this will be the task of this or the next government. As we have already heard in other opinions, especially in the position presented by Jani Möderndorfer, this is one of the key civilisation issues that comes, of course, too late, which, as a society, we are giving our hearings, as we have already heard today, to a group of people who, unfortunately, have long been marginalized and thus, of course, excluded under some equal opportunities, particularly as regards education and further involvement in society. So you're gonna have to roll up your sleeves real quick. Amendments to the Constitution are often heard in a popular way, accepted by the appropriate majority, but in the end, unfortunately, only this remains, the real writings in the Constitution. What will be crucial is to ensure adequate legislation, including by-laws, so that this amendment will also actually come to life, so that it can actually enable people who are deaf, deaf or deaf to participate more actively in our society. I think that today is not the time for controversy, that there is no time for politics, but above all the time for celebration, let us say so, but, of course, with some very clear message in the background, that we will need to roll up our sleeves and do everything we need to do to make this not only an act, just a symbolic gesture, but that it will actually be alive for some group of people in everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u17	Thank you very much. As a last resort, he will present Joseph Horvat for the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear guests at the gallery. Over the past ten years, we have met many times, we have understood you, we have heard you, we may have taken the first step with the Personal Assistance Act, today there may be another, but we need to take an infinite number of steps to ensure the rights of everyone. Man is a social being and is therefore necessarily forced to choose a more or less good way of communicating. Good communication is our human responsibility. Today, the National Assembly is considering and adopting a decree proclaiming a constitutional law, by which our Slovenian Constitution will be supplemented by the right to use and develop the Slovenian Sign Language. The law also provides that the free use and development of the language of the deaf are governed by law. And just today, colleagues and colleagues, when we are on the last act of the constitutional audit procedure, it makes sense to quote the old Greek philosopher again. He says: “People do not meet like cattle on pasture, but to talk.” So about 2,000, 300 years ago, Aristotle wrote it down. Aristotle's thought was also the basis on which the author of the government's proposal for amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was Mr Cveto Uršič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The text was created more than two years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, without communication, an individual in society cannot become an effective and productive adult or an informed citizen. The importance of communication and language for hearing impaired persons is so fundamental that the debate on this issue is not admissible. Deaf, deaf, deaf and sluggish children who use Slovenian Sign Language as their indigenous language face obstacles, including in the field of education, adults in employment, the exercise of civil rights, political rights, political rights in the field of culture and so on. In view of the historical problems that people have always faced with hearing impaired communication and language skills and educational, social, cognitive and psychological consequences, the constitutional right to communication is legal and necessary. If the Constitution provides for the right to speak, the right to communication and language shall be of equal or even greater value. Members and Members of our Group will be unanimously supported by the motion for a decree. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that we will begin with ourselves, which means that, from today's announcement of the amendment of the Constitution, our debate will be somewhat different at least in such a way that it can be easily interpreted into sign language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I inform you that the Members and Members of Parliament who have applied have resigned from the debate by moving to the final part of the debate. Would you like a representative of the proposer? [[No, no, ……]] So everyone you wanted got a word with. I ask if anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decree declaring the Constitutional Law supplementing the second chapter of the Constitution of Slovenia. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. [[Let's hear it.]] Dear Members and Members, I interrupt the 76th extraordinary meeting, which we will continue in 30 minutes, at 11 a.m. However, I invite you to remain in the Chamber and to mark this historical income of the declaration of the completion of the Constitution by entering the Sign Language and the Language of the Blind, together with representatives of the Union of the Deaf and Deaf Slovenia and the Association of the Deaf Blind Slovenia, the Dlan, who will join us in the Chamber in a few moments. (The sitting was suspended at 10.33 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 11.15 a.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE INFORMATION SECURITY LEGISLATION PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Peter Gersak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u21	Your Honor! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information Security Act (ZinfV-A), second treatment, urgent procedure. The proposed amendments and additions to the Information Security Act give rise to the regulation of the cyber security system, as is known by more than half of the members of the European Union, where the national cyber security authorities are directly responsible to the government. With a new location under the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a new strategic weight is given to the Authority in the performance of tasks that are highly horizontal and inter-ministerial and require the coordination of a number of resources. We estimate that this amendment to the law is also necessary because the European Commission presented on 9 March 2021 a vision and a path for the digital transformation of Europe by 2030. So we are at the beginning of the new digital decade of the European Union. This is also reflected in the Recovery and Resistance Plan, where at least 20% of the funds intended for digitisation and digital transformation should be made available. The requirement for successful digital transformation is the provision of secure digital infrastructure and thus cybersecurity. Cyber security is therefore a key priority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and we have also placed it as one of the substantive priorities of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the EU. We propose amending the law with the aim of making the coordination of cyber security at national level more effective in the future. Thus, the key changes and additions to the proposed law are the following. Firstly, the deployment of the competent national information security authority under the Information Security Act is changing. The Information Security Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the body in the composition of the Ministry of Public Administration, is being transformed into a separate government service. Secondly, CSIRT authorities of the state administration are also being placed in the new government service. The Cyber Security Response Centre responds to incidents in the field of information security, receives reports of security violations, conducts analyses and assists notifiers in managing incidents and is formed as an internal internal organisational unit of the Slovenian Information Security Administration. Thirdly, this authority is given new tasks in the area of the preparation of regulations on information and cyber security and on the national cyber security certification body, and, at the same time, fourthly, also the authority to issue sub-legislative acts transferred from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Fifthly, the other solutions concern the scope of the designation of the national strategy, the clarity of the recording of the action in the administrative dispute in the control procedures, and the scope of the audit, safety assessments, networks and information systems. Sixthly, we are also interfering with the Law on Accessibility of Websites and Mobile Applications because we want to maintain the competence of the Ministry, which is responsible for the information society. A solution is maintained for the competent national authority to have a supervisory function, so an information security inspection unit will be organised at the government service. Eighthly, the financial implications are mainly due to the creation of a self-sustaining government professional service, mainly for the purpose of completing jobs. They are estimated at €385,000 per year. Therefore, respectable, an urgent procedure is proposed for the consideration of the draft law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 43(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since the adoption of the law is necessary in the interests of the security of the State and in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. Thank you very much. President Zorčič: Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 46th emergency meeting, on 31 May 2021, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Information Security Act. In the opening presentation, the representative of the proponents, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, mag. Peter Gersak explained that it is only a matter of enforcing a competent national authority that wants to form it as a self-government service and that it is necessary to do so as soon as possible, since this is a way of enhancing security even during the EU Council Presidency, which is an additional challenge. He then presented the new powers and financial consequences of the law. In the debate itself, most comments were made by the opposition, in which, in fact, this transfer or the new service would be further effective and should be more secure. Now, the Secretary of State stressed the need to raise cyber security to the next level and that the current regime has also led to partial human resources malnutrition. Then Dr. Uroš Sveta, Director of the Information Security Board of the Republic of Slovenia presented his vision of development, history and assessment of the state of cyber security in Slovenia. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to articles 6, 10 and 11 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and, finally, by a majority of votes to 11, with 8 against, voted in favour of the draft law. The amended bill is an integral part of this report and is before us today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u24	Your Honor, once again a good-bye! At a time when technology develops at light speed, cybersecurity is extremely important for the smooth functioning of society. The use of information systems is constantly increasing and cyber threats have become a constant. Their structure is also constantly changing as they appear in increasingly sophisticated forms. Cyber threats are becoming one of the greatest threats, and countries forced at a high level to provide information security. In Slovenia, the competent national authority, which is in accordance with the current regulation, the body of the Ministry of Public Administration, is responsible for the resilience to cyber threats and is referred to as the Information Security Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. With the proposed amendments, the Government wishes to transform the Government into a self-sustaining professional service by means of an urgent procedure. Let me remind you that in 2018, the Information Security Act, which transferred the responsibility of managing tasks in this area from the Office of the Government for the Protection of Secret Data, was adopted to the Information Security Authority, which subsequently began its operation on 1 January 2020. After only a year and a half, she will now move from under the cover of the MJU to the headquarters of the Government. In the SAB Group, we have repeatedly stressed our awareness that each Government is coordinating and organising its own way of working. We also support all efforts and aspirations for greater resilience to cyber threats and thus greater information security. This is the only way to maintain the safety of the population and prevent damage to the economy. However, with such a non-systemic solution that we have on the table today, a number of questions and concerns have been raised, which we have also expressed when we consider the proposal on the working body, but concrete answers that would convince us that change is really necessary, unfortunately we have not received. The human resources issue has been mentioned, but we cannot agree to such an argument. The Ministry of Public Administration is one which includes the management or number of staff employed in public administration. Several concerns related to the proposal were also expressed by the Legal and Legislative Service. This is a completely non-systematic solution, which is inconsistent with the Law on State Administration. This clearly provides that administrative tasks are carried out by the administrative authorities. In accordance with Article 14 of the ZDU-1, these are ministries, bodies in their composition and administrative units. The government service is therefore not responsible for the management of administrative tasks. As a result, it cannot carry out inspections. Therefore, in the SAB Group, we are still wondering how the proposed solutions will affect the greater resilience to cyber threats, the objectives of which are pursued by the proposed changes, whether they may be in the background of any other purpose. At first glance, it seems that the hidden purpose of the proposed solution is direct control of the functioning of the administration and that it represents another step by the Government in the persistent implementation of their agenda, with which our country is being changed from day to day. Since we have not heard any valid arguments for amending the law, we do not see the need for a change in the parliamentary group and, of course, we will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The value of the information comes from its three main characteristics – confidentiality, integrity and availability. Information security is both understood as confidentiality, integrity and availability of data, according to their form; electronic, printed or any other form. It is therefore a matter of protecting data and information systems against illegal access, use, disclosure, separation, change or destruction. Government, military, police, financial institutions, health institutions and private companies collect enormous amounts of confidential information, most of this information is collected, processed and stored on computers and transmitted through network connections to other computers. The protection of information systems has become one of the central activities in modern information environments both in the business, private and public spheres and within this particular state level. However, awareness and recognition of the importance of cybersecurity and threats to national information and communication infrastructure is essential. Ensuring effective functioning of this area requires continuous and indirect adaptation and upgrading of resources, mechanisms and processes at both strategic and implementation levels. In 2016, a cybersecurity strategy was adopted as a result of the European Directive of the same year. In the last year of the previous mandate in 2018, a basic Information Security Act was adopted at the time without a vote against it, but it is crucial that we, as individuals, have the right idea of what constitutes actually illegal access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of protected information from the information environment as a complete interconnection of social networks and cyberspace. Information security is never a complete process, so today in the changing world, providing security is one of the most important tasks of the country. The key novelty of this bill is the organizational transition of the Information Security Administration, which now acts as a body within the Ministry of Public Administration to the independent service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We do not object to this proposal in the Desus Group, but we point out that the proposal is extremely cheaply substantiated, and we believe that the transfer of powers does not constitute any danger, even less illegality, because it is a transfer within the same executive branch. However, given the scope, the complexity of the protection tasks should be highlighted in terms of the human and financial weakness of that body. The provision of qualified people and resources for their future operation is far more serious than the current search for conspiracy under every stone. In our decisions, we also draw on the experience of leading countries in the field of information security, Austria, France and the Czech Republic, which demonstrate that the competent national information and cyber security authorities have become key stakeholders in ensuring national security. They are organised in a linear manner and their task is not only to ensure cybersecurity, but also to advise the President of the Government in the performance of his national defence and national security tasks. The Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Information Security will have the same status as the government service as the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The data is illustrative for those who treat it well and for those who understand that in Slovenia every President of the Government has a mandate and this mandate does not last forever. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and addition to the Information Security Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u28	Nice greetings to all present! A proposal for a law proposes placing the competent national information security authority under the auspices of the MJU in a self-government service. This service will also be hosted by a group that responds to incidents in the field of information security, which is currently also under the auspices of the Ministry of Public Administration. Such a solution is good, since it is a matter of uniting services with a unified mission. The proposer shall systematically regulate and upgrade the field of information security, both at strategic and operational level. Experience from other countries has shown that the competent national information and cyber security authorities have become key stakeholders in ensuring the national security of modern countries. It is right that this area is strengthened by additional staff and resources and that information security equipment is updated in accordance with the development of technologies. The fact that only four employees work in a group responding to incidents in the field of information security is a worrisome one. This case shows consistently how the public administration has failed or failed to adapt in the years of technological progress. That this area needs to be systematically reordered shows the latest incident when the legal information system of the Republic of Slovenia has not worked for days. It's supposed to be a hacker attack. The operation of such a portal is certainly a vital interest of the state, since it is hard to imagine that people will go to libraries to read official lists, as they once did. Every authority is committed to making public regulations accessible to citizens, because if they are not, it is easy to make legal mistakes. I wonder how we can afford at this stage of development in 2021 that people do not have access to the applicable legal rules for days. Such a situation worries us, and we call upon all the competent ones to do whatever is necessary so that such disturbances will no longer occur in the future. We hope that this time the marriage change is a step forward in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Brako Grims will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u30	Good-bye to all of you! Today, information is everything. From this point of view, of course, it becomes the informational or cyber security of alpha and the omega of our lives, and it is the area where each government must ensure adequate security. How important cybersecurity or information security are are practical examples. You could have seen the most beautiful person you could possibly understand a few days ago in the United States. Under Bidno, kilometres waiting in line for petrol and all lovers of socialism, certainly even in Slovenia, have appeared. Socialism a couple of excellencies! But in this case, it was something else. It was a cyber attack, an intrusion into the information system of the supplier of fuel for the entire coastline of the United States. And as a result of the blockade, because the hacker attack was successful, there was a shortage that was typical of socialism and had such a view, for all fans of socialism, so interesting and domestic consequences. That certainly says something. It explains how important information security is today and how important it is that each government has all the right and also the duty to shape everything in the area of cyber security in a way that it considers to be the maximum possible effect and, of course, takes full responsibility. Today there is a law before us whereby the current government wants to reform the relevant body, which is the national information security authority, which is intended to ensure security in all electronic and other forms of data, and then, of course, in the broader sense of the word, also of overall cyber security. We will certainly be in the SDS for this reason, because this security is so important and today a number of attacks are being launched not only by hackers but also by countries when it comes to it in the field of computer science, in the field of cyber security for all these reasons, so as to ensure an adequate level of security in the SDS, of course, the proposed law is fully supported. We will also reject the proposed amendments of the opposition, which are going in the direction that everything the aim of the billmaker is to virtually destroy and thus surely throw another additional obstacle, or if you want a stone in a bicycle that drives the Slovenian state and whose purpose, when it comes to the intervention of the government in this case, is to ensure greater security. Security must be in one place. Security is one and indivisible. However, the one responsible for it has every right to ensure it in a way that it itself assesses that it is an example of success and, of course, of doing so and only in this way, then we can expect all responsibility from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Inadvertent interference with the legal order in Slovenia continues to rub off on your eye when what is still functioning legally will put Janez Janša's Government in an illegal state and thus wants the Information Security Authority, which in the Government of Marjana Sarca as a body within the framework of the Ministry of Public Administration in accordance with the current legislation, is now transforming it into a self-government service. It can, however, be said by the Secretary of State, that in half of European countries, organisation is about the same as you suggest, but I doubt that it is illegal in half of European countries. Lawyers in the Government and in the National Assembly in Slovenia are united, it is a completely non-systemic solution, which is highly legal. A government service with the powers to draw up normative acts may not have inspection tasks at the same time. What's so vague about this? Will the government now become a criminal organ? It is a matter of establishing an illegal situation and it would be perfectly normal for members of the coalition and its supporters to have any questions for the Government, for example, or at least minimum standards of legal standards in our country at all. Is it really possible in this House to support everything that this Government brings you? And because you're not asking, of course, we're asking, so in the List of Marjan Šarca, we ask why this organization, the reorganization, is needed. We ask because there is no answer in the writing and there is no government representative who is now advocating the piano for the second time. We have heard some Flossules about how the cyber security system will be upgraded, how the international exchange will be better. In particular, hair is drawn to help raise resilience during the EU Presidency. Slovenia will already be deeply in the Presidency when the new service is only redesigned to work with full capacity, especially since there is no speech in any human resources improvement. However, the cyber incident response group is not expected to start working until the beginning of next year, of course, when the Presidency will be over. If I continue with these fugitives, let us tell them why this reorganisation aerobics is necessary, because of the interests of the security of the country, they say and that the consequences for the functioning of the country are not severely remediable. In the second half of the year since the cyber security coordination was successfully established, the Information Security Authority has drawn up a national cyber incident response plan and is well involved in the international area. What she has now made a mistake to jeopardize the security interests of the State, the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State have arisen. Therefore, in the Marjan Sarca List, we ask: what will the government service do, what the administration has not been able to do; what does the phrase “improvement of cybersecurity” mean; how will this increase cyber resilience during the presidency; what is the personnel plan; how will the service carry out inspections if this legislation does not allow it. Many questions, but absolutely no answers. So what can we possibly get out of this? One conclusion is that the Government of Janez Janša wants to take control of information systems in the country by subordinated to the Cyber Security Service. There's absolutely nothing else to offer right now as an answer. And this is the goal that the government is pursuing. We will therefore be in the List of Marjan Šarc against the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of the information security law adopted in April 2018, a new body was formed in the composition of the Ministry of Public Administration, the Information Security Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Its basic mission — as stated in the Authority’s presentation — is to raise resilience to cyber threats that may endanger individuals, businesses, state authorities or society as a whole. What the Administration does: connects stakeholders in the national information security system at strategic level, coordinates operational capacities in the system itself. Special attention shall be paid to those under the Information Security Act of the Group of essential energy service providers, digital infrastructure, drinking water supply and distribution, health care, transport, banking, infrastructure, financial market, food supply and environmental protection, from a group of digital service providers and also from a group of public administrations. It shall carry out the tasks of a single contact point to ensure cross-border cooperation with the relevant authorities of other Member States of the European Union and with the European network of CSIRT groups and other tasks of international cooperation. With its own inspection service, it exercises control over the implementation of the Information Security Act; I have deliberately stressed this, because I will also present this issue below. And since the Administration informs the Government and the National Security Council of the state of increased risk due to the likelihood of a critical incident or cyber attack being carried out, it is, of course, also included in the national security system. Your Honor! The Administration, which started its work only after the adoption of the Information Security Act in 2018, is already on the ground of this Government. On the basis of the proposed amendment of the law, the government wants to submit itself to a new government, otherwise a self-sustaining professional service, which will be joined as soon as possible by the CSIRT Authority of the State Administration. The organisational structure of the administration is as follows: the strategic planning and crisis response sector, the resilience sector, the joint affairs sector and the information society inspection sector. Therefore, we do not see any reason to include in this organisational structure of the Information Security Authority as an authority in the composition of the MJU a Group for the treatment of incidents in the field of security of electronic networks and information by the authorities of the state administration. We do not support the proposed amendment to the Information Security Act. We do not support this because the representatives of the Government or the candidates on the parental committee either did not know whether they wanted to or, more likely, did not hope to give us the right reasons for the new government service. Finally, you ignored the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. There is also a two-pronged question to the Secretary of State on how the Government intends, after amending the law, to carry out inspections in the field of cybernetics and also criminal proceedings. We didn't get any answers. This issue is extremely important because the Government or the independent professional service of the Government of Inspection and Criminal Procedures cannot and will not be able to carry out any of these and other administrative tasks. Inspection, however, is one of the main tasks of the national cyber security authority. We were also disturbed by the authors' record that public participation in the drafting of this law was not necessary because of the internal organisation of the public administration. We have repeatedly stressed that we understand any government that is trying to organise its work by successfully achieving its pre-election objectives. However, we estimate that the current Government, with the proposed amendment, wants only and only to resubmit one more, for the country, strategic and professional service. Information security should be understood differently from what the current Government imagines. Information security in Slovenia [[sign for the end of the debate]] and its population and inhabitants become crucial as it affects the functioning of social systems and must not become a toy in the hands of any party or any political option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good-bye! When the government of Janez Janša decides to reorganise in the state administration, it is necessary to turn the ears immediately. She's got her own reasons and her own. Especially when it comes to transferring tasks from one of the ministries to the government, where the President of the Government has the primary control and the word in the operation of such a service, and in particular because the characteristic of this Government is the concentration of power in one person. We are surprised that the law is adopted by emergency procedure and without public participation. The law was not publicized. This reorganisation in the public administration does not mean that the reorganisation does not have an impact on the functioning of the services and thus on other stakeholders in society, and should be included in the public debate on the proposed change, but not. Thus, we have before us a rapid amendment of the law which transfers the powers of the Slovenian Information Security Authority from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where a special government service will be established, which will play the role of the national information or cyber security authority. There is no clear or convincing explanation in the material for why such a person is needed in the government at all. We also did not get answers to a number of questions on the committee. Moreover, there has also been a silence of coalition Members and Members who seem to be aware that there are no serious arguments other than flat-rate indications that this is an important and priority area and an alleged greater effectiveness. Especially not in the fact that the Legal and Legal Service reminds us of the following. “The administrative tasks are carried out by the administrative authorities of the Ministry, the bodies in their composition and the administrative units. The Government’s legal and system-wide service is not responsible for carrying out inspection.’ So how will this government service carry out inspections when it is not under its jurisdiction? Of course, we didn't get any answers. It is obvious that this is the personal whim of the President of the Government, who seeks to gain additional power and control over this area by setting up a government cyber security service. That such service does not belong to the Government according to its tasks, the Legislative and Legal Service has made clear in its opinion and we can only agree with this opinion. We're the last in Levica to assume a variety of conspiracy theories, a variety of paranoid scenarios. All the facts we are trying to critically shake, analyze, and then draw conclusions. For us two correlations are not necessarily a causal link. But when the rise of correlations appears under the government of Janez Janša, now it gets completely different meanings. For example, in some other times, we would also feel that for some time the legal information system of the Republic of Slovenia has not been working, something that is happening in modern times. But when such an important portal, which provides greater legal certainty between citizens, as well as between the state authorities that use it in their work, is allegedly collapsing due to a hacker attack, at the same time as the relevant amendment of the Information Security Act is being addressed, it is indeed a wonderful coincidence. On the contention of the proposed regulation from a legal system point of view, the Legislative and Legal Service has already written everything down in its opinion. The point of her opinion is that the proposed merger of tasks in the government service changes the basic concept of the law and causes contradictions and non-conformity within the law. We can conclude that this is another one in the series of hand-to-hand action by the ruling coalition in order to accommodate the personal whim of the Prime Minister of the Government, which is linked to his desire for absolute control over all social systems and subsystems, so we are convinced that such a change in law is unacceptable, harmful and undermines the legal system. We strongly oppose the proposal in the Levica, and we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We can no longer imagine modern society without digitisation. If we want to keep and develop high value-added jobs in Slovenia, we can no longer ignore this area. On the one hand, however, digitalisation offers an inconceivable opportunity for development; on the other hand, we must not forget our security, the security of our data and the vulnerability of information systems. The area of cybersecurity has been somewhat overlooked in Slovenia for years. Only with the recent intervention of the European Commission in the introduction of a series of directives have the relevant structures covering that area started to be established. In fact, we were fortunate in the past that there was no greater threat, since we would not be able to defend ourselves. We are reminded of the great vulnerability and need for greater information security by recent events in the United States that are not yet innocent in nature. The U.S. branch of the Brazilian city processing company was the target of a hacker attack, which required them to stop production in America, Canada, and Australia, where about 10,000 workers were forced home. Less than a month ago, the colonial gas pipeline, which is the largest pipeline in the eastern coast of the United States, was also the target of a cyber attack. The company paid the hackers a $4.4 million ransom. In order to strengthen the cyber security system, they encourage and at the same time commit to adopting strategic documents at national and international level. This is addressed by the Resolution on the Strategy for the National Security of the Republic of Slovenia, the Strategy for Cybersecurity of the European Union, entitled Open, Safe and Secure Cyberspace, and the proposal for a Directive for measures to ensure a high level of security of networks and information within the Union. Because we are aware of the potential on one side of the threats, on the other hand we have proposed and supported the establishment of the Strategic Council for Digitalisation, which is the consultative body of the Prime Minister of the Government. The objectives of the Strategic Council are to prepare, within five months, a framework proposal for the necessary systemic changes, in order to accelerate the digitisation of the Slovenian economy, the public sector and the state administration. Council members, experts in their field, will closely monitor the global development of digital technologies and prepare and propose concrete measures and legal acts, in the field of digitisation. They themselves are aware of the areas of cybersecurity and this threat to cyber attacks. These are an integral part of the digital age, which is why the Republic of Slovenia needs to regulate the area of cyber security, which is measurable to the most successful European countries. We Christian Democrats have always highlighted the informationisation of society and production systems as one of the urgent processes at the various levels of our society, which will help to increase added value, including in the field of employment. In parallel, we drew attention to the risk of information security because we advocated the establishment of a national information security authority. We therefore support the transformation of the Information Security Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the body of the Ministry of Public Administration, into the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the independent professional service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In modern society, the executive branch of each state must have an authority that can assess the threat and respond quickly and correctly to it. The CSIRT Group, and also in the future, will respond to information security incidents, monitor security allegations, carry out strategic analyses and assist notifiers in managing serious incidents. New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats will be united in supporting the proposal for an information security law, because we are confident that the new placement will raise the level of cyber security coordination and, above all, begin to reduce the gap with comparable arrangements in the leading countries in this area. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u40	Your Honor! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that plans for digitisation of processes are practically present in all areas of modern society. Today we are considering and deciding on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Information Security Act which systematically regulates and upgrades the field of information security and improves the conduct of the competent institutions, both at strategic and administrative level. The Information Security Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the information security sector with us today. The current legislation defines it as a body in the composition of the Ministry of Public Administration. The proposed amendment of the law is intended to transform the administration into a self-sustaining professional service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With this proposal, the leadership of the National Information Security Authority will become responsible to the Government, which will also have jurisdiction over the appointment and discharge of the Director of the Office. The tasks and duties of the Office will not change with the amendment of the law and will continue to include the exercise of control and the preparation of regulations on information and cyber security. A new placement will thus create the potential to improve the coordination of cyber security, and the system will be regulated in the way other modern countries know it. The amendment also foresees a change in the status of the group responding to incidents in the field of information security, the receipt of security reports, the analysis and assistance to notifiers in managing incidents. It is also expected to be placed in a new government service. In doing so, it is a key awareness that we face cyber threats and the vulnerability of information communication systems every day. In the event of incidents or threats, there could be difficult remedial consequences for the country and the economy. National and international experience shows that the competent national cyber security authorities have become an extremely important factor in the system of ensuring the national security of modern countries. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that plans for digitisation of processes are practically present in all areas of modern society. In view of current trends, it will be necessary to allocate more and more resources. In line with its development, it will also be necessary to respond to increasingly complex questions related to information security. We therefore believe that we must join the international data exchange networks as soon as possible in an effort to strengthen international cooperation in the field of information security. During the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2021, we will face many challenges, including those which will certainly be linked to ensuring the availability, accessibility and confidentiality of information and communication systems. We must also raise the level of information resistance because cyber security in the Presidency will have a strong impact on the country's reputation. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that this is why the rapid and appropriate placement of the competent national authority, which will have to play a proactive role in the field of information security, is essential. The proposed amendment to the law is therefore understood as the basis for transparent and effective action in this area. On the basis of the above facts, we will unanimously support the new law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Articles and Amendments tabled, Articles 6 and 11. Since the amendments of the SAB, SD and Levice groups to Articles 6 and 11 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 6 and 11 as well as the amendments of the SAB, SD and Levica groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Five candidates have been reported. The first one gets the word, Mr. Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. While the opposition amendments are trying to correct the impact of this law in some way, it will not be possible to bring it into legal order with these amendments. I have been relatively short in government, but long enough to see and understand how the laws are written that this is some procedure, that the laws are the fruit of coordination, consultation, integration of professions, public inclusion, especially, at least for the government of Marjan Šarc, whose member I was, was the opinion of the Government's Law Service so-called law. Without a positive opinion from the Government's Law Service, the law did not even come into government procedure, except that the government would send it to the National Assembly. It is clear from all the criticisms made at the expense of this law by lawyers, both in government service and then in Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service, that the law is completely non-systematic and that, in practice, as a matter of thought cannot work at all, even though we have now heard an interesting opinion here that the law will systematically regulate the area of cyber security, that is, the non-systemic law will systematically regulate these matters. But the impression was that someone in the government had said at the top of the government: “Put the Information Security Authority directly under the government and transform it into a job.” They may have asked the Ministry of Public Administration how to do this, perhaps even warned that lawyers were not the most enthusiastic about it, but they probably had a hard time justifying the matter. Yeah, not at all. We have only seen material prepared for discussion on this amendment of the law and clarifications by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Administration. However, I think we have not heard such boisterous explanations of such an important matter in this House in a very long time. They probably asked how we should base everything and probably get a response from the top of the government, say that it is an upgrade, that it is a strengthening of international action and remember to mention the Presidency. Now, if you mention this, it will all be enough for the members of the coalition to ask, because this will be very well-founded for them. Now the opposition is probably going to be nervous, but let it go when you defend this in the National Assembly, just what the opposition is going to say will be a good one, because it will pass, and then the coalition with supporters will adopt the law. Here, in these explanations, which now beautify colleagues from the coalition, it seems that the area of cyber security with the new Government is being regulated entirely on a new level, that practically a new number of times has begun as if no one has cared about cybersecurity until now, and as if these information security administrations are virtually gone, it is not at all. That the administration would be responsible to the government, or to the new job. The new job is already responsible to the government. However, to whom is the Ministry responsible as well as to the Government and also to the Director of the current administration, the Government, of course, appoints this difference to the Director of the Service, and yet the President of the Government proposes this is an important difference. When I talk about whether the count has really started again and no one's dealing with cybersecurity. The Information Security Board has done a lot of work this year and a half. It went there in the middle of 1919 and became fully operational at the beginning of 2020, but at that time let me list only a few of the activities successfully carried out in this administration. It is true that the administration is still understaffed today, but the management has been given the resources to begin operations with a clear human resources plan. In 2020, however, the Government did not in any way provide for the human resources strengthening of the Information Security Authority, although it was a human resources plan and it is still very clear that the Administration has successfully established the coordination of cyber security and has prepared a national plan for the government to respond to cyber incidents, launched, led a cyber security coordination team, composed of police, MORS, ODS, SOVA, representatives. [[Incomprehensible]] Also in the field of international activity, the administration is active and successful, covering both NATO and the EU, NATO’s cyber relations and so on, so that I do not list everything. We are practically the only ones we have put cyber security into the recovery and resilience plan and into a multi-annual financial framework, thanks to the administration. With one inspector, the administration is as much as it can carry out inspections. These are now the results of the work of this administration, which count nothing because everything begins again. We will upgrade everything, everything will be much more effective, just answers how, why, and there are no answers. Upgrading, that's all. Upgrading, efficiency, that is all and strengthened international activity. On these three flossules rests the justification of this reorganisation aerobics of this government. So, once again, in the List of Marjan Šarc, of course, we do not see on such grounds as they are, and as the representative of the Government has presented them here, we see absolutely no point in considering such a law at all, let alone in order to support it, so of course we will oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Let me tell you this right now. In presentations and everywhere, we also forgot about the key information we received on Wednesday on the Committee, when Dr. Uroš Sveta told us that he was the head of the Office of the Information Security Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, that he was one of the first to work in this area, because the legislation was adopted only in April 2018, the National Assembly in the previous composition adopted this Information Security Act. And on the basis of this law a year and a half ago, the Information Security Board of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Dr. Uroš Sveta, was established, is said to be a man who had already worked professionally in this area. Because we have already heard that information security, the so-called cybersecurity, is the security of the future that the country must take care of. If we are citizens constantly and repeatedly invited by the parties, I will tell certain operators, place protective equipment on personal computers, and we overexamine it, this is crucial for the country. There have been examples of what attacks might mean, for example, in America with regard to oil derivatives. [[…]] Let me draw my attention to even worse when it was the case in Florida for the hacking attack on the water system where it was repaired, it is said, that the values of certain elements introduced into the water treatment system have improved by 11 thousand times, and if not for the physical person who cared for the system, he would have noticed that the value of this chlorine, or similar stories, could have been greatly poisoned. So cybersecurity for all of us, information security, all of which is related to technology I, is our future. Therefore, the future we need is not what we want, but what is urgently needed is the future. Just as countries have for centuries had their own security, so-called security intelligence services. And we know how it works in Slovenia, what it's called and where it plays. This is also what we want with this Government in the field of information security, which is why Dr. Uroš Sveta has the full support of this Government, which he also thanked the Committee for. He welcomes it, he wants to upgrade it himself, because we need experts. And this government has given this security one of the four key elements in the presidency, so this is linked. That's it. This is why I do not support the proposed amendments that virtually destroy this law and we will support the law because we want to go to a higher level or at least to the level of that state security, this part of security, which is the area of information security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u46	Nice greetings to all, distinguished Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, as well as to viewers in front of small screens! Sometimes we said nothing should surprise us; we had external and internal enemies. And today, according to this pattern, with a desire for control, as we would not be ashamed of it even at the time of the Judgment, the body is transferred, without being explained by the Ministry of Public Administration, directly under the authority of the President of the Government. Without telling us in any material sense what would be improved in this way. I'm very concerned about this way of transferring organs and powers. Even in the debate on the working body, Members of Parliament have not received any answers to our questions, why this is actually happening, what is now wrong and what will be better with this proposed postponement. We have not received an answer to this simple question. I agree that digitisation and informationisation pose challenges to society, but if we want to solve this separately, then let us prepare this systemically, not by emergency procedure, and let us set up a professional service that will with all these data that is actually coming together – we must be aware that in the near future all households will be equipped with smart refrigerators, so that they will be able to read what is in the refrigerator and let the trader know that someone will deliver it to you with a drone. And, of course, in the near future, it will be necessary to set up an office, an agency, an independent agency that will operate on these issues and data. But just like that, from tomorrow to tomorrow, to be able to move an organ, without knowing why, excuse me, it opens up a number of questions, even by emergency procedure. What is so urgent that this must be done now? We also did not get an answer to this question, not on the home labour body or in the Government's present position. In the opposition, in the SAB, we have signed an amendment that this controversial article, which is not justified by any explanation, is simply removed, deleted, with the desire to prepare a broader social debate on all needs and that, if we want to approach digitisation, this approach is systematically taken. Many people understand the “systematic” as a footnote, but if we want, for example, consumers who will become the center of society in the future – and we are already part of it – to choose between different suppliers, suppliers of electricity, then someone will follow our habits as individuals in these databases. And that must be someone who's independent. You know, if someone wants to operate on data and knows, for example, that you are not at home between two and four hours and that there is an excess of energy available, then this information must be with someone who is trustworthy and independent. And in this amendment of the law, no content is discussed, not addressed, but only put a body directly under the authority of the Prime Minister of the Government. This seems very controversial to us in the SAB and, of course, we are opposed to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is by Anya Bah Žibert
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I think the one who wanted to understand the material understood it. Those who, of course, want to seek out some conspiracy again from this material and so on, will, of course, do so in each sentence, in each comma and, of course, in this way, continue to spread this intolerance and some subjugation to politics or the functioning of systems to one political option or even to one person. Let's do it a little bit in a row. The bill clearly states that the main solution is to strengthen the strategic and operational level in the information field. Thus, in the field of information security, it is proposed that this information security, which was now within the framework of the body in the composition of the MJU, be transformed into a self-sustaining professional service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So it's a self-sustaining job. That we will not only listen to us politicians, we do indeed remember Mr Uroš Svet, who has been on this parental committee and has made it clear that this solution supports. Now you're going to say again, yes, of course, right, that's now in the time of this government. The Lord has been with him from the very beginning. It is said that it has nothing to do with the government of John Janša, but it has been working in this area from the very beginning and has said that this area covers and has also been professionally told that the proposal or that this matter is being moved as, becomes a self-sustaining professional service, that it is being welcomed and that it assesses that the service will be strengthened and improved in this way. And of course, today you're all dealing with this job becoming a self-sustaining professional organ, but, under the government, any government. So your problem is that you keep dealing with Janez Janša and you look at the tree and you can't see the forest, but the fact is that experts have estimated that such a way of developing this area is more than welcome. And one more thing, I think it's important to the public. This is not a unique one, but it is also known by other European countries – Austria, the Czech Republic, the French Republic – but, with one essential, essential and different starting point. The Czech Republic adopted such an arrangement in 2011, the French Republic 2009. You know when we started dealing with cybersecurity? The law was adopted in 2018 and the matter began to take place under the EU Directive 2016 and somehow 2020 saw the light of the world. 2020. More than 10 years for other countries, on the fact that all systems and subsystems in the country are digitising, that digitisation will increase and that security in this area will still be important. And even in the fact that we were all aware and that various documents were talking about, I would say, the security problem of the future right in cyber threats and attacks. So, I think we could think first of all about being late in some areas and, of course, another problem, which is also important, and I hope that by transforming it into a self-employed professional service, that it will also have this way, I will say, greater strategic and operational power. We really need to give this service an emphasis and work together in this area. You know what attacks mean, and I think it's funny that we don't know today who were the ones who threatened Members and Members, that if they support something, they will receive personal discretion and threats and so on and so on. So it's just that we can be threatened and nothing happens. However, the attack on democracy and, last but not least, on the constitutional rule that we Members are sovereign and independent of our decisions. But someone pretty much sends out after the National Assembly, they call it "anonymus" and threatens individuals at even a personal level. Not that this is unworthy, but worryingly, no one in this national council is involved. You can imagine a more severe attack by hackers, but maybe some people really want it to happen in Slovenia and it makes it impossible to operate systems and subsystems. I don't think he's afraid of independent work. We're afraid of attacks, we're afraid of being unprepared for such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u50	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I always, when I'm somehow preparing a debate, then I listen both to each other and I try to find common ground. And in this darkness today, the common crossroads is certainly that everyone cares about cybersecurity. The problem, I hear, is that cyber attacks and cybercrime are becoming increasingly frequent and increasingly dangerous. And especially if it is estimated that after 2024 more than 22 billion devices will be online and, of course, attacks will increase. Where are we going? We're actually breaking up in some of the content of the law itself. As I have already said in my debate on the Committee that, as a key novelty, I understand the relocation or placement of a national authority directly under the government, in fact it is not, I will say, so controversial in itself. However, it seems to me that something else may be problematic, which I have already pointed out. I respect Dr. Council myself, of course, and I know he's an expert and he's a competent person and there's no doubt about it. And so much more then, on the board, I expected an adequate answer to my twice-proposed question of how it would be through inspection procedures, because, of course, the government, as such, cannot carry them out, how it would be with criminal matters and, not least, if you do not get an answer here, of course, then a shadow of doubt falls or some strange light that I will not be overstepping the law itself. Because I'm sure I'm the one who's most aware that safety is not something to play with. To upgrade some organ as such, to be more effective, to implement, I'll say, more centralised some things, even maybe not wrong. However, it is very wrong or very frightening to take away some key mechanisms, such as inspection or criminal matters, which, as I have already said, the government cannot carry out. And then put it in some weird light and then they're looking for maybe, as the colleague mentioned, some kind of online, intrigue or whatever. However, I think that if we get an answer to these doubts a concrete answer, I must say, that silence was really bizarre to my question and I simply do not find any reason why there was no answer to this question. Of course, I don't understand the material in the context that everything is wrong. I don't understand the novel itself in this context. However, we expected some response with arguments to these concerns and doubts. It is not simply a matter of prioritizing and always breaking some of the rules that the current government is putting into consideration or into reception. However, all options must be sought and this is also the task of the opposition not later. We're trying to find Bo said the opposition is always a little bit more schizophrene than a coalition, but no matter which one is and so is the case, because only then can arguments be raised for and against. [[…]] I still expect some response to these concerns also to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, and it is clear that we will then hear these objections to our concerns. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. Mr. Rudy Bear, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Vice President. However, there is something that we absolutely agree with our colleagues and colleagues from the SDS. Dr. Uroš Sveta is, of course, a great expert in cybersecurity. It is so great that, as Minister of Public Administration, I proposed it to the Government of Marjan Sarca to be confirmed first as Director of the Directorate for Information Society, when we prepared the legal basis for the establishment of the Information Security Authority and I proposed it to the Government as Director of the Directorate for Information Security, so we certainly agree that it is an expert and that no one has ever challenged it. It is not such a problem to present the administration itself, but what we have been warning all the time we have not received any answer or that this warning has always been mildly overheared, but that practice will show that we are right and that something is not feasible. In particular, the Information Security Authority now has inspectors or inspection roles in its ranks. As soon as it is postponed, reorganised as the independent government service of this inspection role will not be able to have any longer under the law, so it will no longer be able to carry out inspection controls and this is all the art of this peak, and of course this inspection role is extremely important, and, of course, it would now be imperative to strengthen it with additional inspectors, which of course is difficult to obtain, but it is clear that there has been no response either by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration, now I do not know whether the Ministry is aware of this or whether they have deliberately overlooked it or not, so that the opposition will hear what the opposition is going to hear because it will pass a quick vote, but see, the implementation of the inspection is one of the administrative tasks set out in Article 10 of the Law on State Administration and the administrative tasks are carried out by the administrative authorities of the ministries, the bodies of their composition and administrative units. The Government's legal system service may not be competent to carry out the inspection and other tasks defined in Article 27(2) of the Law, because it is not competent to carry out administrative tasks, and this is essentially all the art of it. So it's not just a challenge to the law because it's proposed by the Government or to someone by the Information Security Authority to grow up on the heart, because he's been involved, like me, in the design of this administration from the beginning, not at all, but we're warning that this job will be disabled, that it won't be able to perform all the tasks that it's already in charge of by law. Not to mention some other inconsistencies, but this one is crucial. And this is not solved, and government lawyers, parliamentary lawyers, have already pointed out this. I believe that Dr. Uroš of the Council supports the reorganisation or anything, but, you know, he's not dealing with these legal aspects, he's an expert in cybersecurity. The government or the Ministry of Public Administration should bring law into the National Assembly, which is in line with other legislation, so it is not in conflict with the Law on State Administration or amend the Law on State Administration, because it is so simple, but it does not matter, see, it will end up saying everything we adopt is constitutional until the Constitutional Court decides otherwise, but when we decide otherwise, we know how this coalition responds or, in particular, the ruling party. But that's another question. We have deliberately wanted to point this out all the time, and we warn once again that this will not work in practice, and that we will not then be in the situation as we have been so far, when we have told you about certain illegalities or the unconstitutionality of certain legal solutions, when we have decided something by the Constitutional Court that we will not come to that “we have told you”, of course we have told you so many times so far, but nothing will happen to you, and you will now be out of some good operational service that has escaped and knows what its tasks, what it is to do, we have done some disabled government service that will not be able to act in accordance with all the powers conferred on it by the law under which this Administration was established. And that's it, we're not dealing with Janez Jansha. Have I done anything with Janez Janša now? Nothing. But I'm telling you, the law is not in line with the law, and that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Second draft law on amendments and amendments to the Act on the Determination of Optional Units for the will of Members in the National Assembly, a non-disclosure procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. The reason why we are facing this bill today is a very unusual error, that is, when GURS, which is certainly the most technically and technically subdued body in Slovenia for these purposes, copied the existing constituencies and the settlements they make up, released 7 settlements, as it has now proved in a detailed multiple review, in those constituencies, which is even more unusual, which have not changed at all. Even those of us who participated in the proposal for a law were paying attention to areas that were changing, not to those that did not. So this mistake is very unusual. Whether it's a matter of some very strange negligence or something else someone else should decide, but certainly someone should be responsible for it, and I would just say it's very strange when many people have a lot of comments to say, but if you change one person or move one person to a state government, it's a cry to heaven. This is a typical case where it would require action, if possible earlier, but certainly later, so that such things would no longer happen. Personally, I think that it would have been sufficient to publish as a technical correction, but both the legal services, both governmental and national constituency, when they were asked about this matter, were of the uniform opinion that it was necessary to amend the law correctly, to carry out the procedure which is now proposed in the light of the rapid procedure. The reason for this is that, of course, we need this law, even at this moment, so that preparations can be made for the referendum, which is already being announced. I warn that the adoption of the law itself, even if it is finally adopted today, does not yet constitute its implementation. Then there are the deadlines laid down by the Slovenian Constitution relating to the referendum on all other options provided by the Constitution, including in relation to the Council of State. And only after all these deadlines have expired and when the President of the State sends this to the publication, after the expiry of the time limit, which is, in this case, the proposed shortest possible, shall the law be enforced the next day following the publication. Only then does the law really come into force. All of these are also the reasons for the reduced procedure and for this law to be adopted. Given that this is an obvious technical error, given that there is no material change, I am sure that the result will be the same as it was on the competent working body and that the law with which it is in a hurry will receive unanimous support. However, I hope that the debate in this regard will be as necessary. This is said to be the question of those who have been directly involved. How can such a technical error happen where nothing changes at all? “Copy-paste” is a magic word that exists in English, which has been extremely useful since the massive use of computers there in the 1990s. And if something goes wrong there, it's hard to say whether it's a serious negligence or something else I'd rather not talk about. And some of them have been in the past few days. In any event, I propose that the law be adopted, because it is essential that they be carried out in a legally sound manner so that no subsequent comments or even complaints can be made. Preparations for the referendum and later, of course, preparations for elections, which, as we all know, must not fall under any shadow of doubt. The law is legally infallible with an amendment adopted on the competent working body. This was also the only comment the legal service had. At the same time, there was also an answer to a question that was somewhat unusual, but [[sign for the end of the debate]] says a lot about how many people know our legislation and decide on it. One of the MPs asked how it could be that we were talking about the 9th constituency. Slovenia, of course, has eight constituencies, but for elections after a proportional electoral system. Then there are two special constituencies, the 9th and the 10th, to elect the representative of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, who are designated individually and as electoral units, because they are elected by someone, [[a character for turning off the microphone]] but also specifically specified in the law. And there was also a mistake, and it was properly corrected with the amendment. Since the law is now repeatedly reviewed, even after the assessment of our legal service is flawless, I propose that the law be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u56	Since I've got half of it, I could stay up there. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you all again for your attention. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly at its 48th emergency meeting, on 2 June 2021. The introduction showed that it was simply a correction; I say this in order that there will be no legal doubt. It is a mistake, however, that settlements have been abandoned, and that, as I pointed out earlier, in areas that do not even change. There were many comments in the debate that this was the responsibility of those who prepared such a law in the Government as technical staff. Interestingly, he had much to say about it to the one who was the previous minister and who was already preparing this law. And then there was quite a debate that those who signed this were also responsible. Well, in the end reason won over and the committee adopted the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, unanimously, and then also unanimously the whole text of the law. [[11 for, no one against]] . The text was supplemented by an amendment, which was made on the basis of the only comment made by the legal service of a technical nature, addressed the municipality of Ankara. And such an updated text is before us today. In view of the Committee's unanimous decision, I propose that we adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u57	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Urška Ban, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u58	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the establishment of electoral units for the election of Members to the National Assembly complements the provision of Article 4 of the Law, which provides for municipalities and settlements in electoral units and constituencies, where the applicable text of the law contains shortcomings arising from technical error in the drafting of the text of the law adopted by the National Assembly. 2. 2021. In accordance with the proposal for a law, all errors relating to the deployment of settlements and municipalities belonging to individual constituencies will be eliminated and the wording of Article 4 will fully reflect the actual situation of division of regional units, such as municipalities and settlements, within the constituencies and constituencies, as derived from the Register of Spatial Units, managed by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In its proposal for a law on the basis of new data from the Geodetic Authority of the Register of Spatial Units, the applicant supplemented the text of Article 4 with the names of municipalities and settlements which were missing in the text and, at the same time, corrected some minor spelling errors. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the bill adequately and on the basis of the data transmitted from the Register of Spatial Units fully corrects the identified shortcomings. What is particularly important is that the proposal of the law does not affect either passive or active electoral law, but it is the fulfilment of the consistent respect and implementation of the rule-of-law requirement contained in the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports and proposes to the National Assembly that the amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian form of representative democracy, the authority of the people is exercised. It may do so directly or indirectly through elected representatives. The equality of electoral rights is the fundamental postulate of our electoral system. Every voter has the right to give his vote. Election rights are one of the fundamental human rights. By its very nature, it is so important and difficult that the way it is implemented must be determined by law. Without an appropriate legal regime, electoral law could not be enforced at all. In the National Assembly, after long-term coordination, we adopted the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly, by which we eliminated the illegality and constitutionality found by the Constitutional Court at the end of 2018. The adopted novel has eliminated the inadequacy of electoral thefts with regard to their size by number of electors and electors per district. The situation between the largest and the smallest regions has thus decreased. The definition of each district shall list all the settlements which constitute it. There has been a mistake here, and there are no 7 settlements listed in the marriage text with a total of 811 elective beneficiaries. The error can also be considered unacceptable at all, taking into account the ability and usefulness of modern technology available to preparers. This mistake has happened and now we are here where we have made a mistake. The Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the only authority responsible for the design of the settlement, has fully acknowledged the error and has taken an active approach to the creation of a new basic law. Self-regulatory and control mechanisms have been shown to exist within the necessary state subsystems that allow detection, detection and correction of errors. In all the unpleasantness, this is also a positive consequence, which does not show simply to overlook. In such a situation, pointing to the culprit is also extremely wrong to seek out nonexistent political reasons for making a mistake. The fact is that on 1 January 2020, 6 thousand and 35 settlements in Slovenia were not inhabited. So many settlements must be included in an extremely important law that realizes the electoral right of all electoral beneficiaries. It is therefore a matter of remedying a technical error. Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the amendment and the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues all have a nice day! Today, the National Assembly is considering the Proposal for a Amendment to the Law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members to the National Assembly, which corrects the error which resulted in 7 settlements in 7 constituencies, leaving 818 voters and voters without the possibility of exercising electoral rights. At the time of establishing the new electoral borders, the competent Ministry of Geodetics received the wrong information entered into the text of the law. Although the bill was tabled by Members and Members instead of the Ministry or Government. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space on the occasion of the consideration of the Decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the Novela Water Act, the Member of LMŠ and the Director of the State Election Commission warned of the error in the law. The latter error must be corrected correctly, due to the referendum, as it would raise not only the question of legitimacy but even the legality and implementation of it. Corrected data on the designation of the area of individual constituencies are now fully correct and consistent with the database maintained by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. We will be supporting the amendment in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Unbound Members, we believe that there has been an unintended error on the part of the competent minister and that as soon as he has been informed of it, he has done all he has to do to get rid of it. The decommissioned areas of 7 electoral districts were handed over by the Ministry as soon as possible to the coalition Members, who re-invested the amendment in the legislative process. Finally, the Director of the National Election Commission acknowledged that all the electoral authorities, such as the District Electoral Commission, the electoral commission in the electoral units and the State Election Commission, had overlooked the error, so it was not surprising that this failure had also escaped the competent ministry as residents of the texts of the law to the Members as well as the drafters of the law and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Non-aligned Members agree that this is a question which should not be the subject of a political dispute, as cooperation is not a referendum the fundamental right of all. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the subsequent legislative referendum for the Novelo Law on Water will be required by the signatures of some 60,000 voters and electorates only on 11 July. The government coalition has proposed and, with the help of some other Members, voted on a one-week postponement of the referendum, which should be based on the original proposal on 4 July. The Director of the National Election Commission also agreed that the date of 4 July was the most optimal. The ruling coalition justified the end of the voting day by the fact that before the referendum a bill should be tabled and adopted or that it is a much more realistic possibility for the error to be corrected by 11 and not by 4 July. In the Group of Members, we opposed the conclusion of the referendum because we considered that the real purpose of the government coalition was different. Our assessment was correct, not only because it turned out today that the National Assembly could remove this error already on June 4th, but even in the form of a parliamentary law, which we are considering after a reduced procedure, but also because the activities for the implementation of the referendum on May 31st, started on May 31st, despite the fact that the error has not yet been corrected. In view of the fact that, on 28 May, three days after the State Assembly decided to postpone the voting day, the State Election Commission had adopted a referendum memo, it was clear that the first deadline for the correction of the error was 7 June, when the District Election Commissions appointed the electorate and the deadline of 25 June, when the Ministry of the Interior for Individual Voter Affairs had drawn up a general electoral directory. This proves that it was a simple deceiving and that the government coalition wants to change the voting day because, due to the delay of the referendum, it hopes for a poorer referendum participation during summer holidays. This is important because the law in the referendum will be rejected if it is voted against by the majority of voters who voted in force. At least one fifth of all voters must come to law in this regard, and given the difficult quorum, this means that about 340,000 voters must oppose the law. And the ruling coalition is aware that any voter who does not vote for the holidays is considered. We will, of course, support the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u64	Good day to all in the hall! Today's amendment to the law is necessary due to the removal of the technical error that has taken place in the last amendment of the law. In fact, some towns, congregations, have been released by the trainers, and the exact number is 7, where 811 people are involved. Certainly not a computer error, but a mistake is the product of human responsibility. We are concerned that in such a sensitive area as elections, there has certainly been an intentional error. It is certainly the anti-State action of certain persons at the Ministry. The data of 811 deleted persons are already old and, in view of the change in the address for permanent residence, may also be for more or less persons. From experience, I know that anyone who has not received an electoral ticket to his address may have taken a certificate from the administrative unit demonstrating the eligibility of the ballot on the day of the election. On Sundays on election day, all administrative units must be open. From this point of view, the error is not so critical, and on the other hand, the question arises whether the electorate knows this possibility at all. On the other hand, the correction of errors is necessary, as the error relates to the process of elections itself, which enables one of the fundamental postulates of democracy to be implemented. We are in the Slovenian National Party against the constituencies, it would be more appropriate if they were just electoral units. Some calculate where they will be elected, so I am not surprised that the proposal after the abolition of the electoral thefts was not adopted. It would make sense for candidates from all over Slovenia to be represented at one voting post, i.e. in the cabin. Any voter could elect a candidate who trusts him and knows him, because only in such a way could he ensure that Members are truly representatives of the whole people. We want this amendment to correct the error and not to be true rumors that there should be more mistakes. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u66	We will, of course, support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is a matter of correcting a non-contentual error, which is of a technical nature and could have an impact in the case of ex post procedures initiated on the determination of the outcome. In order to make the case legally infallible, the proposed amendment to the law, which we will unanimously support in the SDS, is now proposed. At the same time, we wonder why so many additional words are needed for those who have a very large number of supporters within Slovenian bureaucracy, and after they make a mistake, who would say sabotage, but this is used to spill manure on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and on the ruling coalition. This may also be a valuable experience to accept it on the government's side and to take a more rigorous and determined approach to replacements wherever they are clearly necessary. Responsibility must be exercised at all levels and everyone must do his/her/her/her/her/her work accordingly. People pay for it, so they are taxpayers, and all of us who are consumers of budget money are directly responsible for it. Everyone must do their work in the best way possible and such mistakes, as was the case in this case, are certainly totally unacceptable. There are computers here today. Let me tell you a comparison – what good 20 years ago I was alone, then without computers of this kind, but on the basis of the writings I was working on a bill for the constituencies for the majority electoral system, which must be infinitely more precise, but it did not happen that in a bill that is still in the archives of the National Assembly today. It was filed by Mr. Zagozhen then, there was no mistake. After all he had been examined, there was no settlement missing, but I worked alone and all on my own. So how can it happen when someone copys from a computer to a computer to fall out of seven settlements and watch out for areas that don't change at all? This means that only one substance was copied into another law. Things aren't right here. And once again, everyone who works in the government has to be responsible for his work. Only in this way, when this is consistently implemented and appropriate changes are made to this effect can the Government take responsibility up and then, of course, the Government can also take responsibility. Because of the great demagogies, when the opposition takes on every human resources change, it simply escorts each change of staff by screaming about clean-ups. But once there's been a mistake because of someone who's in red tape somewhere, it's the government's fault again. Make up your mind, either one or the other. But you can't enforce it for both of us. If human resources changes take place, then those who have enforced them should also be responsible for them where they have been enforced. However, if you do not allow for changes in your staff, then you cannot claim responsibility for them. But neither of us can. But what we are all responsible for is the citizens and citizens and voters, of course, it is necessary for things to be done well, to the best of our ability and, of course, without such mistakes as are before us today. Given that the law is now complemented by an amendment made by a technical nature on the basis of the legal service's comment, it is legally infallible that it is a matter of repeated verification. This time, as we say on foot or on hand, and not only with computers of the whole text, and I hope this time we can really rely on the work that has been done, as for the first time in fact a competent service that falls within the framework of the Ministry of Public Administration. Well, this time it's all the way it has to be and with this change we guarantee that [[sign for the end of the debate]] There will be a referendum coming, as the next elections will be flawless, without what we call any shadow of doubt. Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens certainly deserve this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, it is a minor technical error, but such a mistake, such a minor technical error, is a coalition led by the SDS with supporters of grave abuse and directed it against the citizens. What is the point of clarifying – deadlines have begun this week for the holding of referendums for the referendum on water. But what has happened; the State Election Commission, which has to appoint voters all over the country, cannot do that in seven settlements. Because it has no legal basis because 7 settlements have disappeared from the Election Units Act. And of course, here we hear the search for the culprit, the guilt of the GURS, there are threats to GURS employees. We didn't blame the government and neither did the government. The person responsible for this error is the one who introduced the law, and this is a group of members of the ruling coalition. The signatures are responsible for the law they have tabled and the end is the end of the debate. And these settlements that I'm talking about have already been put into law before you, the coalition, changed it and the irony is even bigger, it's about that law that the coalition is fast, superficial, non-professional, and it's now seen that it's also unprofessional, changing to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on the non-constitutionality of electoral thefts. According to the List of Marjan Sarc, you did not abolish the unconstitutional borders of the election thefts by this law. We are convinced that the law is unconstitutional in any way, but you have committed a new illegality and instead of hastening to abolish this “shampariya”, then the Minister walked on Parliament, the Minister of Public Administration and humbly acknowledged that a mistake had taken place and agreed that this mistake must, of course, be corrected immediately and without delay if we want to catch the date of the referendum. But, see, the next day, after he probably visited the SDS Group, he received a second opinion or a different opinion there and, of course, the SDS party abused this surface maneuver, which is directly directed at 10,000 people who have collected signatures for the referendum. Instead of immediately correcting the law, you have invented a whole bunch of excuses, with one goal, to postpone the original set date of the 4 July referendum, deeper in summer, of course deeper during vacations, and thus you promise to reduce the chances of success of the referendum. You suspended the date that you first confirmed, knowing that this error had taken place in the marriage. When you confirmed the original date, you knew about it, but, what an excuse, didn't you, then you found it, you had to take time. This difficult change takes time. Seven words had to be introduced into the marriage. 7 words, the names of the seven settlements, and you just lost them and it took so long, just so much that there was an appropriate excuse that the date of July 4 could not be captured. Transparently, since today's adoption of this law, even today's adoption of this law, would easily capture the date of July 4 with ease, easily captured. Well, it's gone. [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the first place for manoeuvre, for non-democratic manoeuvre, directed against referendum, against the people who have collected signatures for the referendum on the Water Act. And this law is, in our firm belief, in the LMSH Group, already based on [[sign for the end of the debate]] unconstitutional and, of course, even corrections, but if they are of such a logical and purely technical nature, even corrections can not be supported for principle reasons in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! In February 2021 and even today, the law has been proposed by Members and Members of the coalition, not by the geodetic administration, and so today, who is to blame for the biggest mistake that has ever taken place. As in February 2021, we will not oppose this new law by the Social Democrats today, but let me point out that we agree that it is necessary to correct and remedy the shortcomings of the law, but that we believe today that this proposal of law deviates from the decision of the Constitutional Court. All of the unconstitutionality of electoral law, the Social Democrats have not been able to resolve the non-constitutional situation further, nor have we opposed the possible change in electoral units and electoral thefts. However, since such changes in electoral legislation are important political and social issues, it is important to seek the widest possible consensus of political parties, which requires, in particular, good faith, mutual trust and equal involvement of political parties in the search for solutions. However, in preparing this proposal, the law did not go in this direction. The coalition led by the largest government party has taken over the leadership and drafting of electoral legislation and prepared it on its own standards, knowing that they do not need our support. However, we were invited to cooperate at the very end in the sense that you will not say that we have not invited you. May I remind you, Mr President, that, at the end of December 2020, you had the opportunity to bring about a new law with relatively small amendments to the electoral districts and to follow the Constitutional Court's decision. Unfortunately, they rushed you, made a mistake, erased some settlements, and now you're putting the blame on others. This has already been seen too often and the blame is on the proponents' side, and once again, not on the geodetic board. Today, the candidates for this novel can thank about 60,000 voters who requested a referendum on the novelty of the Water Act. A mistake was made prior to the preparation of the electoral process. Unfortunately, the voters can't be pleased with you again because you postponed the date of the referendum because a mistake was made to adopt the law in February 2021. And let me finish with a rhetorical question. What would happen to Twitter about two months before the state-run elections? I guess Twitter would burn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u72	Respected and respected, thank you. The amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the establishment of Election Units for Members to the National Assembly removes technical errors which have been identified following the publication and implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the establishment of Election Units for Members to the National Assembly. What should I say about the proposal for a law amending and supplementing a law that should not be adopted at all, of course, I am talking about that first law, the law that was passed in February this year and which should implement the Constitutional Court decision? The Court ruled that Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of electoral units for the election of members to the National Assembly is contrary to the Constitution. The coalition parties then referred to the 1992 Constitutional Court decision, which provided that the maximum possible imbalance in the number of inhabitants between the electoral districts was 1:3. However, it is wrong to refer to the 1992 Constitutional Court decision as the situation in the field of local self-government has changed completely. In the same decision from the beginning of the independent Republic of Slovenia, it was also stipulated that the delimitation of the constituencies would take account of the municipal boundaries. At that time, we had only 62 congregations. Then came new congregations, changed municipal boundaries, and thus increased disparities between the borders of the congregations and the electoral districts. The electoral boundaries no longer match the boundaries of the congregations, even many congregations are divided into several electoral districts. That is why the Constitutional Court has again decided to re-judge Article 4 of the Law, and the Constitutional Court has reiterated that the number of inhabitants is not the only criteria, but also the geographical and municipal boundaries. Which should also be taken into account when changing electoral thefts by those who have passed such a law, of course, the constitutionally contested law and who have not proposed it. Just before deciding on the call for a referendum on the New Water Act, the Government informed the Committee of course that negligence had taken place. In preparing the above-mentioned law, certain settlements fell out of the polling stations, which means that the honor of 800 electoral beneficiaries was left without its constitutional electoral active right and that was found when it was necessary to ensure everyone's vote in the referendum. As a result, the date was voted on. Of course it's called this 11. Seven and not four. Seven. One would think that a mistake was deliberately made so that it could be used in such a case. Another more likely explanation is the chronic incompetence of the current government. In both cases, this is very bad. The government is obviously completely incompetent. We could continue to discuss all the errors of this government, but this error is symptomatic of its correction for this government. Everything is done quickly and in half, and then such banal errors must be corrected. We do not support such a constitutionally disputed law in Levika, and therefore we will not correct its technical error. This is the task of the one who made the mistake and, above all, the political responsibility of all the coalition Members who have proposed and signed such a law is politically responsible. We will not support the proposed amendment of the law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u74	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Nice greetings to all present. Today's novelty makes technical errors that have been established since the entry into force of the previous novel, which has met the requirements of the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the excessive differences between the size of the electoral districts. Errors relate to the guidance of municipalities that belong to individual constituencies, or to a statement or to a part of a congregation or its whole. In the proposed amendment, the identified errors are fully remedied in no way prejudiced either the size of the electoral thefts or the constituency units or their intended composition as determined by the legislator in the law adopted by 16. 2. 2021. Let me point out once again here that we were not before the Members of New Slovenia signed the last amendment to the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly, which we adopted in this Chamber of Democracy in February this year, but we finally supported it. Our support at the time must be understood in the light of the two failed votes to end the electoral thefts and it was not expected that a majority of 60 votes would be needed to change the electoral system to end the electoral borders and that if the elections were to be carried out after the then applicable legislation, it would certainly be possible to determine the legitimacy of all subsequent elections by means of unchanged electoral boundaries. Maybe even some kind of trial would have been brought before the court. These doubts certainly needed to be resolved, and also because of the growing confidence of citizens and citizens of politics, which is reflected in the increasingly low electoral participation in all recent elections. The amendments adopted by SDS, SMC and Desus at the time were certainly minimalistic but followed by the Constitutional Court's decision and are probably the minimum compromise that such a proposal can obtain in this reference to the National Assembly. In New Slovenia we support today's technical amendments to the law, because we will allow everyone to participate in future referendums and elections. Once again, however, the spouse would point out that these errors occurred in areas where the boundaries did not change. Members of the NS will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u76	Your Honor! By adopting today's novelty, we will correct some of the technical errors that have been identified following the publication and implementation of the law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly. The mistakes that have occurred have been an accident that could have happened to anyone and have occurred in the light of human error. The fact that opposition parliamentary groups are flying the evidence of deliberate obstruction of the referendum of the water law grieves us. It is also inappropriate to suggest that this is a deliberate mistake of officials who are supposed to pursue this objective. Obviously, in this case, it is a perverted and disrespectful attempt to create political discord. We support the implementation of the legislative process in which the opinion of the people plays a key role in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. For this reason, we have also supported the request to convene a legislative referendum in the hope that each individual, on the basis of an objective knowledge of the relevant facts, will take as much informed decision as possible. On the part of the opposition, there were also quite a few indications as to the slowness of legislative processes in correcting errors. At this point, it is necessary to make it clear that the purpose of the amendment of the date of the referendum was to provide sufficient time to remedy that error until its implementation. They also looked at the Geodetic Board of the Republic of Slovenia, which has the most accurate data, as well as at the Ministry of Public Administration. Thus, the claim to delay the resolution of this problem and the implementation of the referendum is simply misleading. The fears of some individuals that due to a certain daily denial of the referendum, as a result of the poorer participation, are totally superfluous. We must not forget that our electoral legislation allows and provides for the right of every individual to vote by post from abroad. In this respect, each citizen with an active electoral right can express his or her decision. Once again, we would like to stress that citizens are aware that their right to participate and vote in the referendum is not at any risk. It is also important to point out in the adoption of the amendment to the law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members to the National Assembly that the proposed novelties do not affect in any way the size of the constituencies, the size of the constituencies or their intended composition. The new law pursues exactly the same goals as it pursued in February. The amendment of the law only eliminates certain technical errors that have occurred following the implementation of the law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly. To avoid all doubts about the legitimacy and constitutionality of the referendum on the law on water, we will support today's amendment of the law on the establishment of constituency units in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u78	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In February this year, a new law was adopted setting up electoral units for the election of Members to the National Assembly. The Act is intended to provide a response to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which in 2018 found that the current size of the electoral districts no longer meets any of the criteria set out in Article 20 of the Electoral Law in the National Assembly. In the relationship between the size of the electoral districts, there have been too many derogations, which means that the voter's voice in the smaller districts weighs more than the voter's vote from the larger district. We have not supported this novel in the SAB Group, because in our view it has not changed practically anything. Several cosmetic corrections in five constituencies and thus in fifteen constituencies do not eliminate the contemporaries found. We are convinced that without radical changes to electoral legislation, there is also no way to expect substantial changes in the composition of Parliament. Moreover, I hope to state that the law would not pass the constitutional judgment. In the SAB party, we wrote in the electoral programme for 2018 that we will strive to introduce a preferred vote. Only in this way can we be satisfied with the constitutional provision which in article 80 provides for the decisive impact of the electorate on the distribution of mandates, while the abolition of electoral thefts would also give effect to the Constitutional Court's decision. In doing so, we would convey to the voters and voters an important message that each vote counts and that electoral participation is still important. We believe that such a solution would increase electoral participation, which has unfortunately been almost devastating in Slovenia in recent years. We have stuck to our commitments and, in a good year, together with the members of the opposition, tabled a proposal to amend the electoral law to the National Assembly, which envisaged the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a relative preferential vote. Unfortunately, however, we have failed every time, as such a system is not particularly suitable for the biggest government party. It finally convinced the other coalition members and brought about a change in the election circuits. In doing so, the SDS ensured that they would be re-elected in the same way. And it's a comparable way to play poker with marked and recalculated cards. Today, however, we have the amendments to the novel because some settlements, namely Abbitanti, Andrejci, Arja Vas, Bitnje, Babni vrh, Bezovje nad Zreč and Bojtina, have fallen out of the text of the law. The errors were identified as part of the preparations for the upcoming referendum in the Water Act, which is foreseen on 11 July. Without corrections, there could be difficult remedial consequences, as the inhabitants of these settlements could not effectively exercise their electoral rights. Although the proposed amendments are only about technical corrections to the already adopted novels and the proposal does not bring about substantive changes, we will not support the proposal in the SAB Group. The whole concept of the law establishing constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly is contrary to our previous efforts to introduce a preferential vote and thus the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of mandates. We are aware of the need to remedy these errors, but the changes in the election thefts have been legalised by the coalition, so it is now their duty to correct their mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item — Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 39 Members and Members, first signed by Branet Golubović. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mag. Bojani Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, which was tabled in the legislative procedure on 25 February 2021 by a group of MEPs and Members of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB, with the first-signed Branet Golubović. But this initiative should not belong to any political party. I would like to point out that this is the law of many citizens and citizens, volunteers and volunteers, professional associations working for many years in the field of women's rights and the fight against violence, on the basis of gender and non-governmental organisations active as the guardian of these rights in many areas of social life. Over the past two years, our society has created the right movement to change the moral, political and professional consensus on the perception of sexual harassment and violence. As advocates of the open dialogue, with the relevant stakeholders, we have recognised that these changes must take place at a systemic level and therefore give them effect in this Parliament. Today we are witnessing an important milestone in the fight for women's rights and greater equality in Slovenian society in general. In the 1970s, rape in marriage was not defined as a crime. The current definitions of offences against sexual inviolability are also based on an outdated model of coercion. The necessity that the model of coercion in crimes of rape and sexual violence be replaced by the model Only yes, means yes, we have been alerted for a long time. The model of coercion for the existence of signs of crime requires victims to actively resist, although very often they cannot, often freeze, or resisting would pose even worse physical consequences and danger to them and to them. Thus, a number of relevant and real situations are overlooked where the victim does not agree with sexual relations and thus has very specific negative consequences in the prosecution of rape and sexual violence. Let's remind ourselves that two years ago, a petition of activists and activists was launched, in an infamous corruption case where an individual was acquitted of a crime of rape because the victim was asleep. He was forgiven for starting rape when the victim was asleep and using force only after the victim woke up. That's unacceptable. As a society, both at the legislative level and at the individual level, we need to put ourselves on the side of survivors of sexual violence and better protect the victims. The model just yes, means yes, victims are burdened with feelings of guilt which imposes upon them the current system when they have to prove that they resisted and doubted whether they resisted enough. They are deprived of the guilt of surviving violence. Many European countries have already changed their criminal laws to ensure that only these comply with international human rights standards and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Slovenia, as a signatory to the Istanbul Convention, is still one of the more progressive countries in the field of gender equality. This amendment to the Penal Code also transposes into the Slovenian legal order the provision of Article 36 of this Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, which requires States parties to grant consent to sexual activity as a voluntary expression of the free will of a person assessed under the circumstances. This recommits to the standards reached for the protection of women's human rights and rights. But we must not forget that the fight for equality in society is never over. Individuals and individuals, victims who, although anonymously, want to share their confession and personal experience with sexual violence and harassment, especially the desire that what happened to them never happen to anyone again. We need to listen to their stories because we want a different, more equal society, [[sign for the end of the debate]] a society in which the human body is dealt with before any action for which there is no consent. The society in which we develop this culture of harmony is taught to ask, hear, and respect. We know that changing legislation will not miraculously cure our society and eliminate such violence, but it is a reflection of our strong political will that can change the mental framework of how we think about sexual violence. [[sign for the end of the debate]] empower the victims and, above all, extend the penal field and enable more effective prosecution of the perpetrators. I sincerely believe that Members and Members of the National Assembly today are able to prove that the protection of women's non-split human rights and the fight for greater social equality in all areas does not know political colours and borders and we will implement the model only means yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code at its 26th meeting, on 5 May 2021. Representatives of the proposer, Ms Mag. Bojana Muršič and Maša Kociper, as well as Member of Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, stressed in their supplementary explanation that crimes against sexual inviolability were unjustifiable and required strict judgements and punishments. Their number of sexual violence in the family and children has grown sadly in recent years. It is unacceptable that the existence of these crimes is judged by an outdated model of coercion that requires the existence of signs of crime from the victim to resist the perpetrator, although in many cases it is not possible to either resist or expose itself to even more danger by resisting. Many European countries change the definition of a crime of rape according to a model of consent based on the absence of consent. It is a model of affirmative consent only I am and the model of veto does not mean no. The representative of the Law and Law Service Špela Macek Gustin said that they had raised, in a written legal opinion, the issue of proportionality or comparability of the proposed penalties. The amendments tabled and their comments shall take due account. Minister of Justice Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich said that the government agreed that the model of forced rape and sexual violence had become obsolete and that it should be replaced by an appropriate model of consent, which represented a remarkable shift for both victims of these crimes and for the wider awareness of society. State Councilwoman Bojana Potočan said that the Council of State supports the proposal for a law that substantiates crimes against sexual inviolability in modern models of consent and already at the principal level informs that the body of each person is also untouchable in a sexual sense. In doing so, the Council of State is pleased to see the content of the proposed law agreed both by its proponents and by the Government and also welcomes the efforts of civil society, which shows a broad social consensus on the proposed amendments. Supreme Judge Marjeta Švab Shirok said that the proposed law was the result of a single misjudgment of the court. While the Supreme Court agrees that the victims of these crimes must be protected and also increased in the sensitivity of society, it advocates responding to new forms of crime through judicial practice. Supreme Prosecutor Mirjam Kline said that the Supreme State Prosecutor agrees with the model of consent, but is more inclined to the veto model, which is easier to prove and advocated by the legal profession. The representative of the police, Dr Igor Lamberger, expressed support for the proposed amendments and the amendments tabled. A solicitor mag. Mitja Jelenič Novak said that the proposed amendment is not necessary in the opinion of the Slovenian Bar Association, as it is based on the individual expert decisions of the courts and will not help to improve criminal law. Representatives of NGOs working in the field of women's rights or the fight against gender-based violence thanked them for their support for their long-standing efforts to change legislation and social thinking in the field of sexual abuse, and in particular for supporting victims of these crimes, who are often lonely and silent because they fear environmental responses and long and painful procedures in which they are not sufficiently protected and further marked. The proposed amendments will give victims the feeling that they have been heard and burdened with guilt, while the whole society has made clear that they are unacceptable to any intervention in the sexual inviolability of an individual without his consent. In the debate, the Members unanimously welcomed the proposed amendments, which reflect the wider social consensus. The victims are informed that they are heard and burdened and encouraged to report crimes and their perpetrators. They were also touched by the testimony presented by the victims, which is essentially summed up by one of them: “I couldn’t say no and I never said yes.” The Committee then unanimously adopted the amendments to the Government and all the articles of the bill with regard to the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Matic Zupan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u84	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you for your word. The proposal for a new Penal Code was discussed on 5 May by the Committee on Justice and I do not think it is too much to say that it was one of the more substantive discussions on the labour force. I am pleased that together we have found that, as a society, we have also matured in the sense that we are prepared to deal with gender autonomy in the Penal Code more broadly. This was an important legal message. With the introduction of the draft amendment before you, we have pointed out in the government's position some of the shortcomings of the texts which, given that we are talking about the Penal Code, can be very dangerous. That is why the Government has tried to address these gaps by means of amendments, mainly in terms of legal certainty and proportionality of the criminal framework. For we want an effective definition that will offer the authorities of detection, prosecution and trial a fair trial so that these acts can also be dealt with appropriately. We also aligned the proposals with representatives of NGOs, and the result was unanimous support on the Committee. What do we change with today’s proposal? We are essentially changing the philosophy of criminal policy in the field of protection of sexual inviolability. We are moving from a model of coercion where it is only an issue of permissive force or a threat to a model of consensus. We change the basic definitions of the most repulsive interventions into an individual and we base them on different grounds, on the question of free will, outside a recognizable landing. From now on, the criminal justice apparatus will no longer wonder if anyone resisted enough to force enough force to break this resistance. The model of coercion remains in the Penal Code, but as a qualified form of basic crime, which means that the punishment will be stricter. And at the Ministry we will monitor the development of both prosecutorial and judicial practice in this area after the implementation of these important changes and therefore we have already submitted a specific project to the call for a public research agency. Finally, on this occasion, allow me to thank the representatives of NGOs again for their truly constructive cooperation, which has led to fully coordinated solutions, and I ask Members and Members for the widest possible support of the bill under consideration. I think we're working or making tectonic changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the non-aligned Group of Members will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The first-signed group of Members and Members of Parliament, Branet Golubović, tabled in the legislative procedure this February a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code proposing an amendment to the definitions of offences against sexual inviolability, which are now based on the model of coercion. This model recognises the existence of signs of a crime only if the victim physically resists the rapist. The proposed model, however, introduces a new definition on the basis of which sexual activity, in which the victim has not freely consented, is a criminal offence as it interferes with the victim's sexual self-determination. It is a model of affirmative consent known by the lay public under the name only means yes. This also brings the provisions of Article 36 of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which requires the signatory countries to give consent voluntarily as an expression of the free will of the person assessed under the circumstances. The new paragraphs 170 and 171 which provide for crimes of rape and sexual violence are proposed. On the basis of this model, all sexual acts in which the victim did not freely consent or agree with them were punishable. Conciliation may be given by words or actions as long as these words and actions clearly demonstrate the permission and desire to cooperate. The existence of consent shall not be considered either in the case of silence or in the case of opposition to sexual acts. The consent shall be granted only in the event of a person expressing a yes or an act of manifesting a desire to cooperate. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we agree that the current model of coercion is obsolete. It is unacceptable that the victim must actively resist the offender because this exposes the victim to even greater dangers. The unsub can respond to resisting violence, which can eventually tragically end the death of the victim. In addition, this model may cause rapists to remain unpunished. Remember the notorious rape case seven years ago when a man raped an alcohol-smokered family friend when the court ruled that he wasn't guilty of rape. The Court held that it was not possible to talk about the crime of rape, since it did not use force against the victims until it woke up. So, according to the court, the victim should have started to resist in his sleep when the rapist went after her. It's not like the wood-breeding didn't see the forest. The proposed model of such contested judgments will not allow and rapists will no longer take it for their disgusting acts without a deserved prison sentence. In addition, with the proposed solution to the victims, we tell them that politics hears and respects them, so we hope that we will encourage them to report crimes, as they no longer fear that their perpetrators will remain unpunished and that their victims will be stigmatized, that they are imagining that the perpetrators are being avenged, that they have offered themselves or dared themselves not to defend themselves enjoying the grave sex. If you are monitoring social networks, you may have been able to track the mocking redefinitions of rape at a time when the 8 March Institute began collecting signatures for the implementation of the “I am!” model. Such a public response to the crime of rape is catastrophic and pushes the victims into even greater apathy in reporting. This even gives an incentive to rapists, since free sexual decision-making should be conditional on the adoption of the possibility of rape. In our opinion, it is the power to compare these heinous crimes to the murder of the soul. That is why the Non-Aligned Members will support the proposal for a law that eliminates the model of coercion. But there's something else we'd like to draw your attention to. For the model of consent, there is both a model of affirmative consent, which we decide today as well as a model of veto, which is more known than “Not necessarily no”. After this model, an offence is committed if the perpetrator ignores a recognizable rejection. The latter model was also supported by legal experts, authors of an empirical study, a representative model of judicial practice in relation to the crime of rape, sexual violence and sexual abuse of a weak person by reviewing possible models of new legal solutions. The extended model of veto by incriminating unacceptable interference in circumstances in which victims are unable to express either the rejection prepared by the Ministry of Justice as a possible alternative has also been supported by some unrelated Members. Later, a social and political consensus was formed in the National Assembly to follow the above-mentioned proposal of the Institute on 8 March. Therefore, the proposed model, which, with amendments from the Government and the Ministry of Justice, will address some of the shortcomings. Above all, we want to see that this model, which we will now legislate from the point of view of the victims as well as from the perspective of the possibility of proof in concrete procedures, will cover all situations and, last but not least, ensure legal certainty, since in the main case, the difficulty of proving the existence of consent will be more difficult than in the “No” model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u88	President-in-Office, fellow Members, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished Slovenian public! Today we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, the KZ1, submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This is actually a proposal they have drawn up at the Institute on 8 March. The Institute has collected more than 300 witnesses of sexual violence and abuse through the campaign #Iztu so far, which is very important for raising awareness among the general public about this pressing issue. The redefinition of sexual violence by model Just me means yes, so it is more than necessary, is a civil standard that should have been adopted long ago at the legal level. Slovenian legislation on sexual violence and rape is based on an outdated model.It is not, therefore, that sexual violence is considered only when the victim has clearly expressed her opposition to sexual relations. The empirical study commissioned by the Ministry of Justice showed that the model legislation had a very specific negative impact on the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes of rape and sexual violence. The new KZ-1I, which addresses the area of sexual violence through a new model of consent, means yes, can be considered a major social step in the context of changing people's thinking and the urgent need to improve criminal law itself in this area. With regard to the proposal in question, there was some skepticism or opposition to the feeling of judicial, prosecutorial and legal types, but we listened mainly to warnings from organisations working with victims of sexual abuse and sexual violence. The proposal of the law in question is followed by a broad social consensus. The Ministry of Justice has complemented the proposal submitted by the applicants even more appropriately. Certain professional concerns about the individual proposed solutions contained in the KZ-1I proposal had to be amended with government amendments, which we unanimously confirmed on the Committee on Justice in the second reading. Among other things, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been led by the assessment that, with the proposed amendments and additions to KZ-1I, it is already necessary to report at the principal level that the body of every person, including in terms of sex, is completely untouchable, without its prior, to any apparent express of free consent or consent and not to the case only when it expresses dissension. This bill will no longer require the perpetrator to use force or threat or physical resistance of the victim, but the crime will be committed if the victim does not give out-recognizable consent, so it will not conclude or express its consent. The legal proposal thus represents an important step to protect victims in judicial proceedings and also to make it easier for victims to opt for the declaration of sexual violence itself. In the SDS Group, we will unanimously support the draft law on amendments and additions to the KZ-1I Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Perhaps we all remember how, some time ago, we were shaken by the decision of the Supreme Court of Cyprus. The court acquitted a man who sexually assaulted a woman who was not aware of the crime of rape during sexual assault. Why? Because one of the elements of the crime of rape has not been identified, this is forcible. So in our country we have a crime of rape currently regulated, and thank God, that's changing today. In the LMŠ Group, 100 percent support that such an outdated perception of sexual abuse and the definition of the crime of rape, which is based today on the model of coercion, is brought out of the world and replaced by the model Only i means yes. The model only means yes, is a relatively young concept, which, as it is said, is based on a modern model of consent, which means that we assume that a person is not prepared to have sexual relations, if or until he expresses his will with free consent. It represents a standard that should be pursued as a society. In view of the fact that physical inviolability or physical autonomy of each individual is one of the highest rights that should be raised to value today, it is entirely appropriate that, by redefineing the crime of rape, we also accept the duty of everyone to verify in doubt whether the other person consents to sexual relations. Today it is not a political question, but it is a social question where the answer should be very clear. We want to be a society where the individual body will be respected and secured sexual inviolability will be effectively protected in criminal law. Unfortunately, however, when the proposed amendment was introduced into the legislative procedure, we witnessed an incorrect manoeuvre of the government coalition, which wanted to prevent today's amendment from being discussed. At that time, the Government submitted its proposal for a law and its proposal for redefining the crime of rape, which defined the so-called model, does not mean no. This is a concept that does not reflect the highest standard that modern society should pursue when it comes to physical inviolability. The deadline for cooperation was thus offered to NGOs by the opposition, where we put in the legislative process a bill drawn up by NGOs. We can only say luckily, however, we have found a broad political consensus that the redefinition of rape and with it the model alone means yes today. In the LMŠ Group, we will certainly welcome today's amendment of the law unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u92	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Respected and respected! At the proposal of NGOs and numerous calls by societies and women of victims of sexual crime, the opposition has put into the procedure a proposal to amend the Penal Code to change the definition of crimes of rape and sexual violence and amend the range of penalties. Offences against sexual inviolability are among the most repulsive acts that have lasting consequences on victims, and such acts are therefore worthy of the most severe condemnation and punishment, and our task as legislator is to create criminal law in the field of sexual inviolability in the first place by listening to the victims of these horrendous crimes for their just satisfaction and appropriate punishment for the perpetrator. The model that we now know about sexual criminal law therefore requires the victim's physical resistance to rebellion, force. This, in fact, requires the victim to put himself in even greater danger. It is an outdated model, which in the 21st century is in fact no longer a city, so a few European countries have changed their legislation in recent years and introduced either a veto model or a model of affirmative consent model yes. Today's amendment of the Penal Code thus introduces a model of affirmative agreement between Sweden and Iceland. [[Incomprehensible]] Sexual violence and rape therefore no longer require force for the existence of a crime and the physical resistance of the victim is no longer crucial. Those who give an initiative for sexual intercourse or other sexual activity must be given the consent of another person. Unlike a model, it does not mean that a person wants to have sex at any time and with anyone until he opposes it but vice versa. A person doesn't want to have sex until he expresses his will for him. The silence or absence of resistance alone does not create consensus. The model means yes, and therefore the only one who, by prohibiting anyone from interfering with the physical or sexual integrity of another person without its consent, consistently protects its right to sexual autonomy. The sexual interest must be reciprocal and, by consensus, create space for mutual communication and for taking into account the sexual desires of the other partner. Such a model means that a person is completely free to decide when, how and how often he will engage in sexual activity. For we must not allow knowledge that due to narrow, severe and outdated definitions, any crime would remain outside the legal framework of punishment or that the perpetrator would receive a more lenient punishment because the victim, for example, slept during rape or because she was drugged, or because the victim had frozen, remained constant, and could not say no, and could not resist after having been surrounded and raped by more perpetrators. Social Democrats are confident that the model “I am.” will allow for greater protection of victims of sexual crimes and return the voice and relieve them of feelings of guilt. Passive victims often remain silent because of internal feelings of guilt and fear of judgment on the part of society. However, a mere and mere change of legislation will not be enough. More efforts and resources must be invested in the assistance of victims of crime in order to provide them with adequate support and support from appropriate psychological support to the proper conduct and understanding of the relevant institutions, police, doctors and all involved. Unfortunately, many crimes still remain undeclared, as they are also pointed out from the non-violent communication society. Statistics show that in 2020 only 12 people were convicted of a crime of rape, of which 8 were sentenced on probation. In 2020, 13 people were convicted of sexual violence, 10 of whom received probationary sentences. The numbers speak for themselves. Special attention should be paid to sexual violence in the home environment between four walls and sexual violence against children. Data show that in 2018 there were as many as a thousand 700 children victims of sexual violence, which is, of course, terrible. The introduction of the “I’s” model means a major step forward. Many sad stories of victims of crime tell us that change is needed. The Social Democrats will support the bill and we also ask the other Members to support the law unanimously today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. In view of the way it has been dealt with in the home working body and also in the views of the parliamentary groups heard so far, I think we can talk about almost unanimous support for this law, which, of course, I am pleased. This is a sign that today's consideration of the amendment of the Penal Code is also an important victory for civil society, NGOs, individuals, individuals who have been fighting the battle against intolerance for a long time and against other prejudices in this society. We live in a time where there is some frightening trend of so-called traditionalisation era. It is said that some notions of roles between sex or between sexes in society, in the family and wider, returning to some traditional patterns, in some old patterns of patriarchy, and this is also why today's law is some minor victory. Because it's a law that actually speaks of equality, which speaks of the openness of society, which speaks of there being no place for any violence, not even sexual violence. This is also important because we are also bound by the so-called Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention, which has been tried by many or some European countries to withdraw or withdraw from it, so that today's support for this law, even if, of course, the strong affirmation of the importance of the Istanbul Convention will also be unanimous. From this point of view, this is, of course, an important and powerful symbolic crust, a symbolic step that is reflected also in other stories related to this law or to this movement in one way or another, such as me and similar stories. Thus, there is a clear voice of Parliament as a whole, if we support it in such a majority, that there is no room for such violence, that there is no room for the use of the power that happens in many places, in many institutions, where, unfortunately, or where, in most victims, the woman is not alone. So this is a question that will now be written in our penal legislation, and it remains open. This issue will need to be upgraded, case law will need to be upgraded, there will be a lot of work to do in education, there will be a lot of work on prevention programmes, there will be a lot of work to do in support and assistance to victims, only in this way will we be able to continue on this path. Of course, this marriage is a small step, but it is not the only one, and it is not a sufficient step. So that if we want to remain an open society as a society, if we want to remain an inclusive society and so on, we still have a lot of work to do. This means not only to worry about the appropriate legal basis, but at any time in everyday life, to pay attention to similar practices, so that I and similar movements, too, today, which has led to this law written by civil society, will no longer need to come, is said to be in a society where it will be self-evident that such forms of violence are unacceptable and then there will be no need for such legal intervention. Until then, however, it is up to us to work to ensure that these things do not occur or to create sufficient conditions for society to be such a society that offers zero tolerance for such practices. We have supported this initiative in Levica from the outset, so that we will support the law today, but we will always be on the side of the weaker and those who are in a worse position for such or other reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the views of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije-Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We must inform all victims of sexual abuse as a society you are not alone with. We will fight with you against those who want to exploit you or even abuse you. The company needs to take your side and we'll do everything we can to get her to step up and protect you. Today's proposed amendment to the Penal Code has pointed out the urgency of changing models of forced rape and sexual violence by means of a model alone means yes, reached the unanimous agreement of all political parties to register this amendment in the law itself. The fact is that a number of cases of reported rapes end up without an epilogue. The reason for this is that there are traumatic experiences that victims do not want to be reminded of again, and the fear that they would not believe them. An important step in this direction was taken last year at the initiative of New Slovenia. We have extended the statutes of limitations for crimes against sexual inviolability for up to three years, which can mean up to 90 years. With this we have made it clear to the perpetrators that the time limit of justice will find you sooner rather than later. In recent times, we have also raised the issue of defining the crime of rape in the National Assembly. Many victims are completely numb in sexual abuse, unable to defend themselves, and unable to say a word. We agreed that it was necessary to amend our criminal legislation so that each sexual relationship must be clearly agreed, so that the victim of sexual abuse of rape in procedures would be better protected. Today's amendment of the Penal Code is following this very goal. And if I talk to a statistically proven maximum number of victims, these are women. The weakness of a woman is not that she is weaker than a man, but that her abuse can make her feel that way. The proposal to amend the Penal Code is a step towards feeling strong and I wish to inform you you are not alone. The New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u98	Your Honor! Today, in the National Assembly, we are adopting a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. In the section of the Penal Code on Offences against Sexual Inviolability, the current regulation is that most crimes are based on the so-called model of coercion, and the main disadvantage of the model is that the existence of signs of crime requires the victim to resist and expose the perpetrator even more to threats, while such an approach may lead to certain forms of rape or unauthorised sexual inviolability. The bill that we are considering today follows the efforts of various NGOs and individuals who have for a long time been pointing out the need to transform the model of coercion No, it is not, into a model of affirmative consent I am, because this is the only way to the greatest possible protection of victims of sexual violence. In practice, this means that the existence of a crime of rape and sexual violence will no longer require the perpetrator's use of force or threat or physical resistance of the victim, but will result in a crime if the victim does not agree with this sexual act and will therefore not express his consent in a final or verbal manner. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we strongly support the movement of incrimination of rape and sexual violence from the model of coercion to the model of consent, as we know that this kind of legislative shift has already been announced in the previous mandate. At that time, the empirical study confirmed that the current criminal arrangements were flawed in cases where the victim refused to commit sexual acts, but for various reasons he did not physically resist or resist enough that the perpetrator should use force, and in cases where the perpetrator used the victim’s surprise with speed. The extensive coordination led by the Ministry of Justice with professional and non-governmental organisations has led the Ministry to contribute to the proposal of the 8 March Act of the Institute, which we are considering today, by drawing up government proposals, amendments. The draft amendment does not specify the definition of consent in the text of the law. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the inclusion of the definition of consent or when consent to sexual activity is deemed necessary, as set out in the proposal of the amendment to the Government, for certainty and legal certainty. We also support the proposal of the amendment of the Government on the proposed penalties in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. We agree with the Ministry of Justice that an expert analysis is needed before changing the level of the penalty and we welcome the Ministry's activities so that this first study on the adequacy of the prescribed penalties for crimes, against sexual inviolability, is carried out as soon as possible. For reasons of legal certainty and predictability, we also support the amendment, which removes the possibility of rape or sexual assault from negligence. The fundamental form of guilt in criminal law is slander. In changing the basic concept of rape and sexual assault, the simultaneous incrimination of negligence could lead to ambiguities which should not be allowed in criminal law. We are pleased that more than clearly the objective and sincere desire, both the coalitions and the opposition, is to change the concept of crimes against sexual inviolability, the ability to agree on at least such an important topic in politics, irrespective of the proposer or the initiator of changes. This gives us hope for the future. We support any proposal for a law that will allow greater protection of victims and lead us to proactively [[sign for the end of the debate]] let us approach awareness of where it begins and ends the sexual integrity of each of us. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will, of course, support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u100	Your Honor! Offences against sexual inviolability represent one of the worst interventions in the personal integrity of the victims. Rape is a severe traumatic experience that always marks victims and their lives. Each victim faces the consequences in his own way. In most cases, however, the long - term consequences make it long and difficult to recover. Research has shown that a large part of the crimes of rape remain unreported precisely because of the fact that the perpetrators have repeatedly remained unpunished. Remember, too, the resounding judgment that was already repeatedly exposed today, the judgment of the court of Cyprus before a time that decided that in a particular case it was not rape because the victim was asleep during the act and the perpetrator did not have to use force. He used force only when the victim woke up and violently finished the act. Prolonged court proceedings have prevented victims from applying because they have to face excruciating hearings, feelings of humiliation or shame and even negative responses to the environment in court. Such decisions by the courts further affect the decision of the individual victim or will even report the act. Especially in the case of the victim's personal knowledge. In the SAB, we are pleased that such a great consensus has been reached on the redefining of the crime of rape. According to the model of affirmative consent, therefore, the existence of a criminal offence will no longer require that the perpetrator use force or that the victim will have to resist physically. The new regime will require express agreement, otherwise the act will be illegal. Such a model is more appropriate because it places in the center the sexual autonomy of an individual or an individual who is based on consent. Consent or free consent is defined in the draft law clearly and definitively, that is, in a way that will undoubtedly be understood as to the nature of the offence. While noting some of the shortcomings of the proposed arrangements, the profession pointed out, in particular, at the expense of proof. In the SAB, however, we believe that the main purpose of the law prevails over such concerns. The evidence has been extremely difficult so far. For these are crimes that usually take place between two participants, i.e. between the perpetrator and the victim, in which there are usually no witnesses. The amendment of the Penal Code represents the first step towards greater protection of rape victims and more effective prosecution of perpetrators. Furthermore, the development of judicial practice in this area will be important in particular. The solution that we will adopt today brings an important message. That is, zero tolerance for such crimes. In this way, in our social consciousness, we will change the perception of rape and other crimes against sexual inviolability. In the SAB party, we absolutely support amendments to the penal code and thank NGOs for their efforts to amend this criminal code.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u102	Vice President, thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to colleagues, colleagues and everyone present in the hall. Slovenian legislation covers an act of rape as a criminal only if violence, threat or coercion is present. The model of coercion for the existence of a criminal offence therefore requires that the victim resists, even though sometimes he simply cannot or cannot do it. In accordance with the so-called Istanbul Convention, the definition of rape should cover the essence of sexual activity without the consent of another person. The European Court of Human Rights has already decided more than 15 years ago that the decisive factor in determining whether or not the offence of rape is the absence of consent rather than proof of the use of force and resistance. Those definitions based on consent take more account of the principle of human rights on the right to protection of physical inviolability. The European Court of Human Rights said that consent must be given voluntarily as a result of free will in the context of circumstances. Development in international criminal law is slow, but it has consistently led to the recognition that consent can only be given freely and present, that the free will of a person is not subject to forced circumstances and that a person is capable of consent. Today, by approving the amendment of the Penal Code, we will also take a step forward in the Republic of Slovenia in defining the crime of rape. With the amendment of the Penal Code, Slovenian legislation finally comes from the so-called model of coercion into the model of consent only means yes. Since then, explicit consent to sexual acts will be required verbally or with other actions. It is also important to adequately protect weaker and weaker people. The first in the Slovenian legal order will also introduce the possibility of a criminal offence against sexual inviolability out of negligence. In the Desus Group we will unanimously support the proposed redefinition of the crime of rape. Given that there is a broad social political consensus for it, we estimate that a major positive step will be taken in the direction of addressing this extremely sensitive segment of the sexual inviolability penal policy. Members of our Group believe that an important step will be taken to further understand the victims as to how necessary it is for such discards to be reported to the law enforcement body. Unfortunately, police and judicial statistics show that extremely few people who have experienced and survived sexual violence also report this act. That the crime of rape is improperly regulated is also evidenced by the statistics of convictions in the courts. Members of the Desus Group understand that this is an extremely sensitive and painful experience. To date, the incrimination of rape and judicial practice has not facilitated the victims'case law. [[Incomprehensible]] As such, society or the environment in many ways simply fades away or worse, yet today’s gesture of broad or possibly even unanimous political support for the proposed amendments to the Penal Code also calls on victims to overcome this ordeal in our society. As our parliamentary group has said, the proposal for the amendment of the Penal Code supports.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As amendments have not been tabled in the supplementary proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the bill will be made within half an hour within the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 76th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.29.) (The sitting resumed at 15. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-06-04-SDZ8-Izredna-76.ana.u104	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: items 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Proceed with break 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Information Security Act within the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 6. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, SD and Levica groups to Article 6. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 11. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. As the amendment of the SAB, SD and Left groups to Article 6 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 11 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 32. I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Election Units for the Election of Members to the National Assembly in the framework of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the penal code in the context of the shorter procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 3. I take it the law has been passed. [[noise in the hall]] Just a little more, just a little more, we're not done yet. The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are still moving on to the hearing on the government's notice of the Magi withdrawal. Lilliana Kozlovich of the post of Minister of Justice. By letter of 4 June 2021, Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša informed me that he was a magician. Lilliana Kozlovich resigned from her post as Justice Minister. In this regard, the National Assembly finds, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is a mag. Lilliani Kozlovich resigned as Minister of Justice. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich is currently in business until the appointment of a new minister. Mag. Lilliani Kozlovich, thank you for your cooperation. I also conclude the 76th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. I inform the members and members of the Committee on European Union Affairs that the first follow-up of the 108th regular meeting of the Committee will begin in a small hall in Šubičeva in 15 minutes.
