ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 78th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Member Bevk alone. Representatives of the Government are invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 78th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 12 July, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose that today's meeting be scheduled as referred to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the agenda of the 78th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary conclusion on the inadmissibility of a legal referendum on the law on emergency measures in the field of health. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Secretary of State Alenka Forte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u2	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the proposal of the Government on 7 July 2021, the National Assembly adopted the Health Emergency Act. With regard to the Law on emergency measures in the field of health, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed, in accordance with Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 21a of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents of the National Assembly, a decision to determine the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum, as the law provides for measures to mitigate and remedy the effects of covida-19 in the field of health, social security and lays down measures for patient safety, the burden on employers and at least part of the plan, the beginning of a difficult path which Slovenian health must continue to take. In accordance with Article 8 of the Law on the Protection against Natural Disasters and Other Disasters, a mass outbreak of communicable disease is also considered a natural disaster. The infectious disease of covida-19 has created and continues to have consequences in the field of economy, the labour market, health care, social protection and weaker social groups or, in fact, at all social levels. In the light of the uncertainty about the consequences of covida-19, which appear worldwide, the legislator does not only have the right but also the duty to adapt the legislation to the social situation and to amend it if this is dictated by the changed social relations. The urgent measures addressed to the population and the economy by the State to mitigate and eliminate the negative effects of covida-19 must be as effective as possible and their implementation must be swift. The Health Emergency Action Act lays down such urgent measures. In this way, the measures of the national call to improve access to health services, temporary transfer of unrealised health programmes, change of conditions from the responsible health care provider, database, administrative burdens on the procurement of projects, incentives for specialisation in family medicine, new financing of clinical psychology specialisations and scholarships for health professions, will make it possible to work more effectively in health care and increase accessibility to health services. Measures concerning personal protective equipment, microbiological investigations, capacity-building of the epidemiological service, extended treatment of patients and self-testing are intended to increase the safety of healthcare professionals, patients and users of medical devices. Measures relating to the right to allowances for direct work with covid-19 patients, the period for meeting the conditions for education in health care and reimbursement of compensation, are intended to increase social security and burden employers. In addition to that law, it also lays down additives for work in different situations for directors and administrators in educational institutions, as well as additives for risk and special burdens for mayors, mayors and directors of municipal administrations during the covida-19 epidemic. The measures are, by their nature, mostly temporary, as they regulate the content associated with the covida-19 epidemic and follow the principle of health and life protection, human social security and the provision of liquidity to economic operators. The Law on emergency measures in the field of health therefore refers to the content of which, in accordance with the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the invitation to a legislative referendum is not admissible because the law in question refers to the content to address the consequences of natural disasters within the meaning of the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u4	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State! Hello, everyone! The government wants to re-abuse the possibility that the referendum is not admissible. He wants to abuse, although the legislation and the constitution are otherwise stated, so Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote against this government proposal. While we abstained from the emergency measures in health law ourselves, it brings some good solutions, and it also brings some bad solutions. We are pleased that we have managed to convince the majority of Members and Members of Parliament about the current excess, which is that the Coroners make a great difference between people, that if the patient is accompanied by a server or a doctor of science, the difference in payment can be a hundredfold. There is no such thing elsewhere in Europe. At least that's how we opened up and started to solve this subject through this law. We are also pleased that we have managed to partially secure public health through the cascade system in removing too many waiting types to help patients. The law is not what we wanted, but it is particularly inappropriate to abuse the possibility that people will not be allowed a referendum and therefore we will vote against the government proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. The government of Janez Janša takes the right to a referendum back to the citizens and citizens of this country. This time, she does this for a law in which she wrote down the silent privatisation of the health system and cynically called it the Health Emergency Act. Public health was the one that saved us in the past year and a half in the epidemic. Not only us in Slovenia, but also globally. Health systems in countries where these systems are privatised have collapsed as card houses, some countries have even resorted to nationalisation instruments. So we also had public hospitals that were carrying the greatest burden of the epidemic, while privates were more or less on the side and were monitoring it as observers. People in this country strongly support the right to health as a human right and not as a business, not as something a private person should make a profit for his own benefit. That is why the government does not go straight in its efforts to privatise health care. This privatisation takes place around the bend, so that public health is exhausted and private health is further rewarded. The first such measure is the adoption of programmes to public hospitals which were not implemented during the epidemic and the transfer of these programmes to private persons. Of course, the public health institutions of their regular interventions have not done as much as they would have if they had been employed with the epidemic, but are now rewarded for their efforts by taking these programmes and finances away from them, all of which are put into the hands of those who have had little or nothing to do with solving the epidemic. Another such measure, which violates the principle of public health, is a special invitation to tender to shorten waiting periods. No one denies that we have a waiting period problem in this country, but at the same time the government, when preparing this national call to shorten waiting periods, does not know what these waiting periods actually are. The urgency of the invitation to tender is very clear. In addition to the medical checkout, past all the security guards that this public health department knows, the government would like to bring in an additional million, additional financial resources to help you fill your pockets. This action is even more perverse if we know that commercial health insurance companies will contribute to this call for €60 million from the fund, which has literally been seized by the insurers who pay for supplementary health insurance bills at EUR 152 million. But that's not all. At the same time, the insurance companies Sava Re and Triglav quickly bought medical infrastructure: Cardial Center in Ljubljana, Bled Diagnostic Center, Fontano in Maribor. The entire small private hospital grew under the tactics of these two hospitals. So who's going to sign up for a waiting period? Private operators, including those of the same insurance companies, which have even financed the reduction of waiting periods with our money, with the payment of all the insurers who have also paid €35 and more for supplementary health insurance bills in the epidemic, although no interventions and care have been received. If I say otherwise, it's the money laundering of all insurance companies by commercial health insurance companies. Through the national call for the reduction of waiting periods, this money will turn around and come back to the accounts of insurance capitalists, who, already every year, on the basis of supplementary health insurance, will confiscate 50 million euros that we pay people to receive adequate health care. However, in order to allow the reception of these public funds on the private health side as wide as possible, the government in a ward known as the Responsible Health Operators shall abolish the working experience condition. Private health care providers who are required to hire new licensed trained doctors with appropriate work experience will not have to do so under as rigorous conditions as would be right. Why? In order for any private person to be able to participate in public funds, even though these public funds should be earmarked primarily for public hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u8	Dear Vice President! Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Health is one of the greatest human values, which means that citizens and citizens want fast, professional and quality health services. The extension of waiting species and the failure to deal with them in recent years - we have witnessed a number of marriages, and now it has led to the moment when action is urgently needed. The coronation completely revealed the multi-annual human resources support of our health system. In addition to the drastic lack of nurses, there was a great need for family doctors and clinical psychologists. Among other things, the bill increases the number of clinical psychology specialisations by an additional 30 clinical psychologists. Their specializations will be funded by the Ministry of Health. In view of the data that only 21 specialists have applied for specialisation in family medicine in spring, the Ministry decided to include an additional 20 % increase in the hourly rate of the basic salary of the specialist for all those who will start specialising in family medicine in 2021 and 2022. Prognosis regarding access to family doctors for the next five years is alarming. The conditions for retirement will meet more than 300 doctors of family medicine. We can know what's coming out of this. The data that there are approximately 130 000 citizens and citizens without a physician selected in Slovenia is indeed worrying. If we subtract from these 130 thousand citizens some of those who may not want to have a selected doctor, there are currently at least 80 000 without a selected doctor. This is information that requires a serious, responsible approach to the rescue of Slovenian health. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters, to which we may also consider urgent measures in the field of health. When we weigh between the right to a referendum, on the one hand, and the fate and accessibility of people to health care and the limitation of the covida-19 epidemic, on the other hand, we need to consider this time for the benefit of citizens and citizens, as well as faster and better access to health services, especially during this crisis, the time of covida-19. The proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum will be supported by Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Vice President. What a lovely greeting to all present! Over the past year, we have adopted several anti-Korona laws that have also set out health solutions. We have taken measures to prevent or mitigate the adverse effects of covida-19 infectious disease. Due to the continuing epidemic and the need to control communicable diseases, a new law has to be adopted which addresses urgent measures to mitigate the consequences of the disease and focuses mainly on the health field. We provide additional conditions for effective healthcare work and increased accessibility to health services and safety in the use of medical devices. The measures contained in the health intervention law regulate the content associated with covid-19 and follow the principle of health, life and social security. The proposal for a law gives priority to the lack of family doctors. Among the more important solutions to the law are the financing of 30 additional specialisations in clinical psychology. The latter proved necessary to treat the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, putting the most vulnerable members of our society at the forefront, and these are children. With a view to improving accessibility to health services and reducing waiting periods, the proposal for a law extends the national alert to improve accessibility to health services in 2022 as well. The bill also contains some such measures that are already being implemented and can be extended as well. This is, for example, a measure to compensate workers for a certain quarantine at home or for the inability to carry out work because of force majeure, due to the obligation to protect, halt public transport or close borders, measures to implement and finance PCR and HAG testing from the State budget as an extension of the period for the fulfilment of the education requirement for health care technicians and some other necessary measures. The legal material received last week is, in our opinion, referred to in the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, according to which the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum is not admissible. The outbreak of covida-19 disease more than a year and a half ago spread to the European Union area last February. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to limit and combat the spread of the epidemic constituted a restriction on public life and public gathering of people, resulting in certain consequences for the economy, the labour market, health and social protection. Since then, measures to reduce the impact of these consequences have been a constant on the agenda of the meetings of the National Assembly. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Urgent Measures in the field of health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In view of the speedy implementation of the Emergency Action Act in the field of health, we are once again faced with a decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum. The proposal for a new law with urgent health and labour measures should allow for more effective work in health care and increase accessibility to health services and safety in the use of medical devices. The government thus changes and complements some of the measures already taken and complements the proposals with new ones. We certainly welcome some of the measures in the SAB Group because they make sense of the situation. The law thus refers to recent years of declining interest in the specialisation of family medicine, provides for the financing of additional 10 specialisations in clinical psychology, including these experts and experts, proposes to extend the financing of the implementation of PCR tests and rapid testing from the state budget and to co-finance the mandatory strategic stock of personal protective equipment, as well as to extend the remuneration measures to workers due to certain quarantines at home or the inability to perform labour due to increased force. But as always, content is not enough and everything does not look as beautiful as it appears at first sight. If we have warned everyone about the urgency of the extension and adoption of certain measures, we cannot confirm this for a measure to extend the national call to improve accessibility to health services in 2022. Since the outbreak of last spring in the SAB, we have strongly stressed the need to set a clear order in which, according to the capacity of our health, we would first resolve the waiting period. First, public health establishments, then concessionaires and lastly private individuals must take the lead. In doing so, the latter may only participate in a limited period of time and with limited financial resources in order to avoid the breakdown of the public health system. I am therefore pleased to reiterate that in the opposition with the amendment, we have finally been able to improve the implementation of the national call for the reduction of waiting periods, which is a government extension for the gradual privatisation of health care. What if I go back to the conclusion that's before us? The fact is that this law also belongs to the purchase of so-called PKP intervention laws related to the outbreak of covida. At least 14 of these were adopted last year. I join the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that such fragmented regulation of difficult legal matter has an extremely negative impact on the clarity and determination of the legal regime which is the basis of the constitutional order of our country. This law is also flawed. It provides for retroactive application of certain provisions. The Government is empowered to extend certain measures by decision and without legal criteria and could also list them. As always, the SPS recalls that in the process of adopting a proposal for a law to which the decision prohibiting a referendum relates, it is necessary to carefully consider whether all the content of this proposal constitutes the necessary measures referred to in the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the facts demonstrating the urgency of the measures must also be very convincing. The inclusion of other content could lead to the constitutional non-conformity and excessive application of the constitutional prohibition of the referendum and to interference with the right to a referendum, and could therefore prove to be constitutionally unacceptable in the process of a possible constitutional review of the law. Not only our SPS, says the Legislative and Legal Service, but also the Anti-Corruption Commission points out the dispute over the adoption of laws by emergency procedure. Let me remind you, in early July, the Commission addressed a recommendation to the Government on the adoption of laws by emergency procedure and specifically urged the Government not to include provisions in the proposals for regulations to be dealt with by emergency procedure which are not justified by an emergency procedure. In the SAB, we believe that, despite some meaningful measures, there would be a need for a thorough reflection on whether all the contents of the bill truly represent such urgent measures as provided for in Article 90 of the Constitution. We have been around such and similar content for almost a year. Many of the measures that you have taken have had no effect or have not passed the Constitutional Court's judgement, even if they may have seemed useful to you at the time. I therefore believe that we could now learn to draw up a nominally appropriate law that respects the principle of the division of power and for which there will be no risk of excessive application of the constitutional prohibition of the referendum. As this is not the case, we will not support the proposed decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum in our parliamentary group. The coalition itself should take responsibility if it later turns out that restricting the referendum was unconstitutional and unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The Health Emergency Action Act, which was adopted by 47 votes and 25 votes against in the National Assembly last week, aims to mitigate the consequences and impact of the infectious disease of covida-19 in the field of health and partly in the field of labour law. The aim of this urgent and extremely important law is to improve the effectiveness of health care and to increase access to health services. Regrettably, the fact that health care is undernourished, the healthcare staff are overburdened many times, the patients are waiting too long, even unreasonablely long. All of this calls for urgent and immediate resolution of the burning problem. With this intervention law, we kind of put out the fire, introduce some emergency measures. Among other things, the law provides a basis for the extension of the remuneration measure to workers for a certain quarantine at home or for the failure to perform labour due to force majeure from 1 July to 31 December. It also includes incentives for family medicine specialists. Due to better access to health services and the desire to reduce waiting periods, the law also brings extended measures of the national call for improved accessibility to health services in 2022. Funds are allocated for medical fellowships and for increasing the number of additional specialisations in clinical psychology. The law brings some other urgent and urgent solutions. Among other things, it tackles the question of eligibility for crisis allowances for some previously overlooked groups, which have also been actively involved in the fight against the epidemic. Yesterday's law was also discussed by the State Council, which did not vote on the veto, so today we are voting again on this place, this time on whether or not a referendum should be allowed. In the Desus Group, we assess that this law is an emergency measure and we will support the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum. The immediate adoption of the law on emergency measures in the field of health is indeed necessary in our view. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u16	We did not oppose the Law on Emergency Measures in the field of health in the Group of Non-Related Members of the Parliament. We understood the intention of the proposaler, the Ministry of Health, to try to strengthen the health system and prepare it for the coming epidemiological period, which, it all seems, will still be difficult for the system to withstand the pressures imposed by the virus. At the time of the adoption of the law, we have warned that the year-and-a-half-life epidemic has shown a number of cracks in the health system or highlighted even more those problems and shortcomings that have been in place for a number of years, but so far there has been no real will after their quicker and more effective resolution. The law we adopted and the main objective of which was to mitigate the consequences arising from the proliferation of covida-19 was probably adopted somewhat too late, at the threshold of the fourth wave, which is expected. Although some of the measures that the law refers to would have been needed already in the second or third wave, it is encouraging that health care for new versions of the virus is somehow better prepared than it has been in recent months. Because the health system will be difficult to re-breathe on gills in any subsequent wave of virus or anything else, it is right to face the consequences of the health crisis as soon as possible, to make the system flexible and resistant to any further shaking associated with the virus. In view of the need for preparedness on the fourth, or I do not know which wave, not only at the level of the health system, but also on the other social sub-systems affected by the epidemic, we have called on the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Prime Minister of the Government to refer to the extended composition of the National Security Council. Why? Because we are convinced that it is a catastrophic communication of measures that can bring added value below, and that it is the information of people as well as of the entire Parliament that can help people to internalise what we probably want them to internalise. We are at a turning point when some balanced measures can stop the spread of the new version of the virus and thus prevent us from paying a high price for it, as we paid it last fall and winter. According to our assessment, such a political agreement with the National Security Council's reference to national security - or at least in its context - is more necessary than the adoption of a decision on the inadmissibility of a referendum on the law we have on the table this time. Some measures in the law are of a lasting nature and are not directly related to the current epidemiological picture. It is also difficult to get rid of the feeling that the conclusions are proposed under the current lane without any sober reflection, or that the content of the individual law really meets all the criteria under which the Referendum Act and the People's Initiative make the referendum inadmissible. We don't think so. We believe that this law is not one of those who would fall into this category, so of course we will vote against the conclusion that the referendum is not admissible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u18	President, thank you for your word. Now I've kind of followed almost all the positions and the fact is, it looks like we're not at the same point in the agenda. In all my views, I have felt that we are re-voting or deciding on a law that has already been passed. This law was adopted and was adopted by 47 votes to 25 with some kind of closure. Today, however, we are talking about whether or not a legislative referendum can be declared on this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not think so. The referendum is unacceptable because it is an area of disaster, those constitutional categories that talk about the consequences of a natural disaster, which is an infectious disease covid-19. This law brings a great deal of additional bliss and eliminates the consequences that are still severe and are also the result of covida-19. We need to know that for some people, it's not enough to tell them that a decision is coming in two, three months, but it's too late for them yesterday. Those who wait in line before the attack are important to them that they be you as soon as possible. And that's what this marriage brings. After all, it is not true what some read all the time to move away from public health. Let me also say that doctors have responded to Health.si, who have said this: "the law brings universal access to treatment to patients and establishes a real public health care where the patient will be entitled to treatment costs". In short, doctors too see a step forward to finally reach effective and good public health. It is not important that we call the system public health, that this is actually public health and that it is accessible to all. Of course, the law brings a lot of measures, some are being extended, others are new, and everyone certainly helps us to cope with covid-19, which unfortunately has not yet shown clearly all teeth, regretting that we will still get some health measures where the matter can take place even more effectively. Let me just say this in the end. We in the National Assembly can adopt legislation, we can help to please a co-vide as such, but we cannot replace what citizens and citizens can do, which is to vaccinate. Dearly beloved, my call to this – let us vaccinate, vaccinate and congratulate the Zasavski region, which is the most effective in this. We follow others, and it is likely that this conflict with the covidus will be much easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u20	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! As we have done several times in the last year, we are again engaged in whether a law by its content falls under those laws on which the constitutional provision of the 90th Article prohibits a referendum. The Health Emergency Action Act. If the law were to be judged by its title, it might be possible, however, to be included in a group of laws on which the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the referendum is not admissible. According to the title, it is an urgent matter because we are talking about urgent measures. However, since we have been dealing with the epidemic in the last year, we might already think that any measures, and even emergency measures in the field of health, are such as to justify the fact that the constitutional right of our citizens to a referendum initiative is prohibited. But just as books are never judged by her linens, the law cannot be judged by his title. What does the allowance for mayors, mayors, directors of municipal administrations and chiefs of administrative units have to do with the elimination of the consequences of a natural disaster, even if we know that, say, firefighters did not receive a single supplement at the time of the epidemic? What does the deletion of the working experience of the responsible health care provider have to do with eliminating the consequences of a natural accident, even if we know that it is a permanent deletion of the working experience, so it is a systemic change, and even if we know that the prescribed experience has been an essential guarantee for the safe and quality implementation of healthcare activities? What does the transfer of a specific health programme from a non-executive provider to another provider, including a private operator, have to do with eliminating the consequences of a natural disaster, even if we know that this is another step further towards the privatisation of public health care, and if we know that this is a step away from the basic public health system that leads to the breakdown of public health care and the spillage of public resources to ensure the right of compulsory health insurance to private persons? On the other hand, for example, a 100 % salary refund due to absence of work due to covid infection is a measure that would help a large number of citizens to cope with the consequences that they or they will suffer from natural disasters such as the covida epidemic. But it's not in the marriage. This is not the case in law, since the ruling coalition did not feel appropriate that all of you, respected citizens and citizens remaining on the hospital stock due to covid would receive 100 % of the remuneration. Or let's say a 100 percent wage compensation for a certain quarantine due to covid, regardless of the source of the infection. This is also a measure that would enable many citizens or citizens to cope more easily with the consequences of the epidemic. And that's not in the marriage either. Respected citizens and citizens, this is not in law because the ruling coalition did not feel worthy to adopt this measure. So what are you denying our people the right to a referendum today? What really should not a citizen and a citizen decide? On the monetary additional to certain officials, on the violation of the working experience of the responsible health care provider and on the spillage of public funds for public health to private persons. This is the content that is hidden in the articles of the law and does not reflect the title of the law. There is no doubt that this is an abuse of the Institute for the Prohibition of Referendum, which represents only a new mosaic in the suppression of democracy in our country. In order for this government coalition to be afraid of its own people, we have been able to see exactly all the referendum bans we have seen so far. But so that the Slovenian people are not afraid of their own government, we could see last Sunday. The referendum was, is and will always be the main tool of democracy, including Slovenian democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Three others were reported, namely Jani Möderndorfer, Miha Kordiš and Anja Bah Žibert. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman. In one of the debates today, we have heard that, in fact, the colleague does not understand why the debates are so different or why we are even discussing the law itself, if it is more than clear that we are now discussing only the permissibility of the referendum or not. It's kind of like if I wanted to talk about, I don't know, buying a car, but I don't care anymore because I'm only interested in something else right now, which will lead to my decision whether I'm going to buy this car or not. Sorry, that's not how it's gonna work. It will have to be made clear that this law is first and foremost illegal. And I'm going to repeat that several times – illegal. First, the illegal is from the title. We're talking about intervention measures, and we've been taking them in, and you've been taking them, and I'm sorry, because I didn't exactly take anything of this, things that would basically fall if things were to go through the regular process. I'm talking about systemic changes. I'm talking about a provision where we're actually cutting something off because there is no interventional nature and there is no temporary nature. Intervention measures are generally always taken for a duration of time, as a measure of an event, in this case of an epidemic. And what's even worse, we don't even have an epidemic anymore. On June 15th, the government lifted the epidemic and said there was no epidemic. The state of emergency after the constitution is clear and it is known when they will be declared. And we don't have them either. But if we have a special period or some dynamics in the country, please tell me. However, the fact is that the covid is present, but not in such a number anymore, which would mean that we have declared an epidemic. So what does that mean? Under Article 90 - those who have adopted a constitutional change and are still sitting in this national assembly today - it is more than clear that the Constitution says very clearly: “The referendum is not allowed to be declared on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the country, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters.” Did we have a natural disaster? Did we have anything to do with this? No, no, no. Further: “On the laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes and on the law to be adopted for the implementation of the State budget.” So there's no talking about it. “On the laws on the ratification of international treaties.” Of course, there's no talking about it either. “On laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitution.” Well, here's where we could discuss it. But the fact is, we're not the ones who can judge what's on it or not, but just the Constitutional Court. After all, it's their parental jurisdiction. What exactly is the problem? The problem is that today we will accept something, if you imagine very plastic, let's give one example. Abolishment of the provisions of the Health Act, where it is written that we have a responsible health care provider. Not a health care provider, I'm talking about a responsible health care provider, which means something completely different, which some of you have been trying to sell all the time. If this provision, which you have proposed and even deleted from the law, were deleted, appeared in a regular procedure and the removal of the responsible health care provider would also be adopted, since it is a systemic measure, then a referendum would be allowed. You got it or you don't? Of course he does. In this case, as this provision is compressed into the intervention law, the referendum is no longer permissible. Let me explain where the logic is. There's only one logic. The one who knew that such a thing could not be accepted on a regular basis simply pushed into an intervention law with one purpose. On the one hand, we have provisions that are of course necessary and we agree. In principle, we agree with the national call for proposals and have been able, together with the amendment, to correct and make even the cascade tendering system, which means that we will also reduce waiting types. And we agree with that. On the other hand, you draw away the removal of the responsible carrier and force us into this and say that there are urgent things inside, that you have to accept everything or nothing. We're just not going to do this. If we could see on Sunday what referendum means and what human initiative means in the sense that people say whether they agree or not, it is more than clear that you are afraid of it today and are hiding under some sort of covid-19 with one goal, because you know that otherwise you would never get it over, but really never. If you were shy in the Beijing once just trying to extend the period so that this provision of the responsible health care provider does not yet come into force, you have found that you will not achieve anything by doing so, as soon as once again this responsibility of the health care provider will come into effect. That's why you simply decided in the medical lobby, in the medical lobby, I repeat, in the medical lobby, the secretary of state, that you would simply disappear. And that's what we're talking about. And there's something about such provisions in this law. It's called cheating on people. This is called the beginning of the privatisation of the public health system. What does that really mean? Some of you have even mentioned today that Doctors.si have said that this is right and that they have informed how good this is, that accessibility must come to everyone. Yeah, that's what we agree on, absolutely. But you know what they really say: access to public money for health services is available to all, but not patients, all who carry health care. Well, that's the difference. That's what they want. The one who gets here early, he's gonna crush it. You know, you're not gonna get me into any of this, except in two cases, when we're talking about clinical psychologists and a few other activities. You won't convince me. We won't have any more doctors in one year. There are as many doctors as there are. What does that mean? That as many as there are, they will work, which on the other hand means that someone who worked in the morning will now work in the afternoon, but in a discretionary way that someone can distribute. What some have explained is that there will now be more doctors in circulation and that more can be done is wrong. They're gone, I'm sorry. I wish there were more, too, but there aren't. The fantastic stories that some tell and have been painted in their head are very present and welcome for the current political pamphlet, but unfortunately we simply don't fall for these things. That's why your courage for intervention measures and this law you're talking about to solve the whole problem, I'm sorry, there won't be, there simply won't be. He will cause and cause more confusion, and it will become a habit in many ways. If we for the first time allowed the referendum to be banned under the intervention law, remember last year when we had the PKP-1, it seemed logical to us all because of fear, ignorance and ignorance that it was necessary to do so and that there was no debate here and that it was necessary to allow the matter to go into life and circulation as soon as possible. Today, when there is no more epidemic, it is more than clear that this government really wants to have this one present at all times by the end of its term of office, I will say, a co-infection, and that is to end the human initiative. So it is absolutely necessary to fight this, because what happens a few times is becoming a habit as soon as possible. You know what people say? I'm asking you nicely, just not temporary measures! Certainly not temporary measures, since what becomes temporary usually becomes permanent. And this sustainability of yours is devastating.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. The referendum on the law, such as on emergency measures in the field of health, must certainly be abandoned. I do not know whether there is an organised group of citizens and citizens who will initiate or not a referendum initiative. Surely, however, there is no wise reason for the National Assembly to take that right away. We know why Janez Janša's government wants to do this with its coalition. Because the content of the law does not correspond on the one hand to government propaganda and on the other hand to the legal form of the law itself. Indeed, the Health Emergency Action Act has several urgent health interventions. At the same time, the main objective of the law is something completely different. But it is that the public health system is privatized. The law itself, interventional by nature, with temporary measures to be taken inside, is complete with measures which interfere with the system regime, how Slovenian health works and interferes thoroughly. We can say quite brutally because the government of Janez Janša intended to privatize the Slovenian public health system, which it does not hope to do directly. This is done in the provinces, so that public health will further penalise and private health will further reward. He does this in three points and in three steps. The first of these points is a national call for the reduction of waiting lines where all insurers are to be heavily financed by private operators in order to carry out ongoing interventions and operations awaiting citizens and citizens. And we all know that people in this country are waiting for medical interventions. We all know that action must be taken. But how to act — first to answer that question, we need to look at how the problem ever occurred. Slovenian public health, as long as we are all constantly begging over it and have much to say about the length of space, has in fact been the target for 30 years of the privatisation siege of various private practices, which can also be summed up as legalized corruption, not just classical corruption that can be pursued. We're talking about supplementary health insurance, we're talking about the doctors of amphibians and the overpayments of purchases and so on. Even damn well, our public health care has been holding fast, given that for 30 years the political forces have been trying to dismember it and turn it into a normal business. Especially if we know how much Slovenia is racing for the developed countries of the European Union after the share of public funds allocated to health care. 5.9 percent of GDP is our investment. Developed countries, their average, and 7.2% of GDP. Translated into absolute figures, this means that the priority of Slovenian public health and its public funding is very low, we are short for somewhere between €500 million and €600 million each year, which should be found in the national budget, and these funds should be directed towards ensuring the health of citizens and citizens. Instead of addressing and eliminating these practices of private decommissioning of basic solidarity in health care, ladies and gentlemen in the coalition will further legalise them. With the national call for the reduction of waiting periods, we will not strengthen the public health system, but you will feed the private and private interests that have created the problem with the money of all insurers. In an intervention law that is supposed to respond to the biggest health crisis in the last hundred years that it has saved – watch out for that! – public health throughout the world – what are you doing? You're privatizing this public health care. Although we have seen endless examples of private health care coming down like card houses across different countries. Moreover, this national call is intended to be financed from funds that commercial health insurance companies have literally seized in the insurance epidemic. 152 million Euros are these funds, 60 million of which are to be transferred to this national call to reduce waiting times, but in fact a large part of these millions will be washed because the insurance companies Sava Re and Triglav have been speeding up their purchase of medical infrastructure over the last year: Bled Diagnostic Centre, Fontano in Maribor, Cardial in Ljubljana and more. There is a growing right-wing private hospital owned by insurance companies, which will run on the same national call to shorten the waiting period financed by these insurance companies with the funds we have all paid into supplementary health insurance. This is a textbook example of money laundering. Why? Only so that insurance capitalists can earn extra, but collateral damage is public health, which you would privatize. Another step in the privatisation of public health is to take unimplemented programmes from the hands of public hospitals and to transfer these interventions together with funding to private operators. Of course, public hospitals in the epidemic did not implement their regular programs because they were dealing with covida-19. Normal, expected. But do you know who stood by and monitored the resolution of this epidemic as an observer? Private health care, mostly. Except for those few individuals who activated and engaged in self-initiative. Public hospitals will now be rewarded for their self-sacrifice and work in the epidemic by taking away their programs and money and transferring it to the private sector. And this is practically for all privates, all sorts of espouses, including those who don't even have employed doctors and are really just shells, just shells that are made by doctors of amphibians. You know, these are the doctors who work in a public hospital this morning, from where they turn patients into their own practice this afternoon. These various espouses, on which such physicians work on a variety of contracts, are something which should necessarily be restrained and entered into legislation so that only those who have an employee of the so-called responsible health care provider who has a licence with the necessary experience may not be punished and so on. But what happened when these responsible health - care providers were to enter into force? The government, with its coalition, first moved the implementation of this provision to the future. Now, by this law, which today denies him the possibility of a referendum initiative, it has removed the working experience from the responsible institutions. It is said that every espa will be able to contribute to this massive transfer of public funds from public health, from the needs of citizens and citizens to private pockets and private health. This is the core of this Health Emergency Act. As you may have seen from my debate, these measures are not necessarily necessary. Moreover, they are deeply harmful and are contrary to what we should do. The rupture is low. The government has ruined both trust and vaccination, and there seems to be no hurry to correct the situation. It is likely that Janez Janša is responding to the fourth wave to be able to close the country once again, that he is not interested in death victims, and that he is now ruling instead of giving priority to this by some emergency intervention law, denouncing public health, which is the only way to end the epidemic not only in us but globally. That's too bad. This is crazy, just as it is harmful, insane and deeply undemocratic, that for some kind of law, which alone is a privatisation shell and is shot with arsonists, people are entitled to a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, the Constitution provides in Article 90 that a referendum is inadmissible when it comes to preventing or eliminating the consequences of natural disasters. And that's what covido-19 is all about. It's a terrible accident, not just in Slovenia, but in the whole world. Today we are talking about whether a referendum on the Health Emergency Action Act, which is more than necessary and necessary to address these consequences, is acceptable. I'll tell you why. In some ways, in this national assembly, we forget that the highest in the hierarchy of constitutional values is the right or inviolability of life. And that's what this is all about. The battle against the co-infection is that we must do everything we can to protect the inviolability of life and to help people, and in some way also the economy, so that all of us together can survive this terrible disaster as easily as possible. A number of questions have been said that require some answers. My colleague Kordish spoke of cruelty, death, death, and so on. In doing so, he forgot that a number of people waiting for public health interventions today are paying taxes for this health care, insurance and so on, in fact, he does not know if he will spend tomorrow. This is where we're talking about life. The fact is that the measures in this law should not really be. Not because they don't judge, but because things should ever be resolved and our health system improved. But no government in the past has, unfortunately, done so and the waiting types are as they are, and people are waiting for interventions and fighting for their lives because we have a system like we have. We are more concerned with who will intervene than with people getting this service and reaching out. It's more important to you who's gonna do this without people getting involved. That's cruel. It is said that there are minor sacrifices for you, because it is important who will carry out certain activities. There are things in this marriage that we should have saved before. It was only at this July meeting of the National Assembly that this government proposed several health laws, such as the Sharčev government in a year and a half. It is said that at only one session we deal with a number of laws on this subject and also solve things that should be resolved. Next, which seems very important to me, is this so-called article 3.a. I mean, when you like to talk about the underdogs, that article 3a was planted at the time. The doctor's room, everyone warned that it wasn't a good solution, but that's when you went with it. And what happened? We have also been reopening the subject on the Health Committee, missing psychiatrists, missing pediatricians and other specialties. Let me tell you what has been going on in these specific cases as a result of this Article 3a of the “Responsible Carrier”. A psychiatrist who was four years of working age could not go to a health care home or a center where he would be the only psychiatrist because he did not have five years of work experience. So someone who's already had enough experience, had a license, did a specialization, and so on, he was a field specialist, he couldn't do a job in a health care home because he was the only one there. This nursing home has been deprived of specialization activities from an area. I could say the same thing about pediatricians and so on. And that's what this removal of the "responsible carrier" gives us an opportunity to those who are doctors, respected, who also have experience that they can work in an area where they are the only employees of that specialty. Secondly, it was said that we would take public hospitals and give, I don't know, to some private people. What a lie and deception. Nobody's taking anything. But those public institutions that will simply find out that they can't and that they won't do their activities by the end of the year, that means that people won't get services, we've talked about the sick before, the sick, and so on, that someone else can do it. Nothing will be taken from anyone, just what will not be done will be passed on. And that's the essential difference. Thus, all the capacities we have in the country will be brought together to make public health more accessible. Today, we have people in the public health system who pay for services because they have to go to private people because they don't come. This is not a public health sector supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm afraid not. Public health must be effective and accessible to all. It's not like that today. And that's exactly what will help. Since covid has brought about a particular situation that is unfortunately also known in the field of health, these measures are necessary. We also have measures that will mean more staff in the field of clinical psychology, which is also very important because of our children and data, because we know that from year to year there are more people in need of such assistance, and what appears to be crucial is that we will promote the specialization of family medicine, which is the first step for people, because it is a primary level and most often people have contact with a family doctor. As we know, there are many people today who do not have their own family doctor. Not because we want to, but because there are no people. By taking quite a few steps or a lot of solutions in this law, I am pleased that this is welcomed both by the people and by the profession, by the profession of public institutions, and that this is a very important step for people to come to the right services. So please don't say on the one hand that this government wants to shut down, that it doesn't care about the dead and so on. We're sick of each other's deaths, both because of the co-vide and because it didn't come our way. With these measures, we are allowing the people to come first. We still have a lot to do in the area of health. There is also an investment law before us, which is also very important. In part, some things, at least administratively, are also dealt with in this specific law when it comes to public procurement, so this is also a step forward. We are also talking about the measures that have already been taken, but they are only extending, so that we will all be winners together. And one more thing, don't say that it's the government that does nothing to get people vaccinated. This is rude and, above all, irresponsible. In this place, it would be far more appropriate for all to invite people to be vaccinated and not to want what is in each individual’s decision to be imposed on the government. So it's up to each individual to decide whether or not he's going to be vaccinated. But it's up to us to help them make that decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u27	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see that there is no interest, so I am concluding the debate. We will decide on the proposal today, immediately after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a preliminary conclusion on the inadmissibility of a legal referendum on the law of intervention measures to assist the economy and tourism in facilitating the aftermath of the epidemic. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dear Members, good afternoon! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the adoption of a decision on the inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Intervention Measures to Assist the Economy and Tourism in Endorsing the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic, since the law referred to in the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the law. In accordance with those provisions of the referendum, it is not permissible to tender for laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The Act on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to End the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic is further mitigating and addressing the consequences of natural disasters, communicable covida-19 diseases in the field of the economy, in particular in the area of hospitality, tourism, sport and culture. On a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted eight anti-Korona packages of legislation. Due to the continuing consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a new intervention law extending certain existing measures for the economy and on additional measures, particularly in the area of hospitality, tourism, sport and culture. The measures provided for in the new intervention law are provisional in nature as they regulate the content associated with covid-19 and follow the principle of health and life protection and social security of people and of ensuring liquidity for economic operators. In the light of the uncertainty about the consequences of covida-19, which appear around the world, the legislator does not only have the right but also the duty to adapt the legislation to the social situation and to amend it if this is dictated by the changed social relations. The urgent measures taken by the State to mitigate and eliminate the negative effects of covida-19 on the population and the economy must be as effective as possible and their implementation must be swift. I ask you to support the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum which will allow the law to enter into force as soon as possible, as companies are looking forward to the assistance provided for in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u29	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u30	Good evening! Thank you for your word, Madam President. All the government anti-Korona packages that come to help people so far are linked by some simple facts. They come too late, they are ineffective, they are pressured by the government to accept them past the public – general and interested, they involve plenipotentiaries, that is, measures with the help of people who have no connection, and instead of directly helping people in distress, they rush to help capital. The ninth anti-Korona package is a school example of this government practice. That the measures are ineffective and that they come too late, the best organisers of the event know about this package. At least approximately the government's attention was expected for a year and a half or two seasons. And when they thought the government had listened to them, it wiped out most of the arrangements overnight. PKP-9 would not be the PKP if the government of Janez Janša did not find an opportunity to rewind content that is neither urgent nor interventional nor has nothing to do with the resolution of the epidemic. However, they are a convenient political vehicle for the private interests of friends. The Water Act. Public opposition to the law has been proven outstanding. The government was aware of this and has also returned to PKP-9 two regulations that change the way public economic services are financed from the Water Fund. Nearly a billion for weapons, okay, the necessary means to protect against real flood threats, which the government is not moving. In order to help people, we have already proposed two key measures to help people in the Committee's consideration in Levica. The country provides financial assistance to various companies, but without ensuring that they retain their workers. Aid to the economy must first be submerged into the existence of jobs. No backup. We have also proposed a change in the destination of tourist, cultural and sports vouchers to financial assistance to the weakest who urgently need funds, i.e. for bare survival, school supplies, rent payments, affordable food from trade, clothing and other necessities of life. Even without backup. There was therefore no reason to support another ineffective government measure in Levica. There is now yet another proposal to ban the referendum before us. Of course, the proponents are shaking their pants now. Do you remember Sunday? The only way for the current regime to retain its harmful power is to exclude people from the decision-making process. It's the only way to prevent us from doing what we can with the constitution. Only by eliminating democracy from the democratic process. But as a plebiscite result on Sunday's people's distrust of the government, the only real intervention that will serve people and the economy in these times of social trials is the irrevocable resignation of the government. The re-elections and the composition of a new, legitimate government with human support that will actually manage the epidemic in the epidemic. The pervasive ban on the referendum is essentially a cry of impotence. The area and its satellites know what time it is. They're screaming in political exhales. The Left Group is not a psychotherapist practice to deal with the trauma of unsustainable government fantasies against the constitution of a guaranteed human protector. We will not support the ban on the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u32	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Last week we adopted the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to Endure the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic. The law contains a number of measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to assist and strengthen industries that have suffered the most negative consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. Therefore, for today's decision on the proposal for a decision, the content of the adopted law, the so-called PKP-9 Act or the anti-Korona package, is important. The Slovenian economy is far from in a situation that could be forgotten by the danger of covida-19 disease. The situation throughout Europe is still quite volatile. Let me mention just a few key measures of the intervention law. Reimbursement of full-time salary is an urgent measure to ensure that employers are able to adapt their work processes to still difficult situations. As a result, this measure will also prevent new forgiveness. The government with Minister John Brickler the King has demonstrated that its measures to prevent unemployment have been extremely effective. The comparison numbers between the European Union countries are clear. It is essential that we continue our efforts in this area. The bill also refers to assistance for the economy, specifically in the field of tourism. It's a sector that's particularly affected by the epidemic. Of course, help is necessary here. The bill provides assistance for the financing of the annual holiday regression, assistance to the industry of meetings and events as part of the cost of organising meetings and events, vouchers to improve the economic situation in the area of hospitality, tourism, sport and culture, and lastly, assistance to cable operators. The bill provides for a good 240 million Euros of emergency assistance to our economy specifically for businesses and entrepreneurs in the field of tourism. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the Emergency Measures Act in order to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedying the consequences of natural disasters, to which we may also consider the covida-19 virus epidemic. When we weigh between the right to a referendum on the one hand and the fate of the people on the other, this time we must weigh in favour of the rescue of our businesses and citizens in these times of crisis. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we support the decision that the National Assembly will find that the referendum is not allowed to be declared. Not because we don't want a referendum, but because we want help from individuals and businesses, which I briefly described, to come as soon as possible. Every day would be too long in those days. The proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum will be supported by Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the presentation of the views of the Group, I am merely informing you that the panellists are no longer present. I now give the floor to Mateja Udovč, who will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u34	Your Honor! We have before us a decision on the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to Endure the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic. Initially, we would like to point out to the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that, given the quantity and method of allocation of funds, the aid to the economy is also an extremely important factor in putting these measures in place. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that certain segments of the economy are exhausted to the extreme limits of their existence and that aid for a certain part of our companies would have been recognised if it had come a few weeks ago. Many companies whose operations have been paralyzed in one way or another are now being kept in a life of transfer credits or have changed their structure in a way that allows them to live in a drought situation. When designing an optimal plan to help the economy, we are limited in resources and time. In spite of the fact that, by means of the said means and within a short period of time, it is virtually impossible to fully satisfy the wishes of all weakened players on the market, we are convinced that the proposed intervention law is a good approximation of the optimal compromise in the current situation. The central purpose of the intervention law is nothing more than to help those parts of the economy that have been prevented by restrictions on the prevention of the spread of disease and have been most affected by it. These measures include, inter alia, the extension of the subsidisation of the shorter worker, the payment of the annual holiday regress in certain sectors, and financial assistance to certain segments of the economy, such as the meeting industry and the film and audiovisual industry. This proposal for an intervention law also provides for the introduction of vouchers in order to distribute the necessary financial resources to the consumer in a user-friendly manner. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we firmly believe that the assistance provided by the law is fair and that the economy will expect it in a positive spirit. We also believe that a possible delay in assistance due to the postponement of referendum procedures would be a disaster for our economy. The affected parts of the economy are counting on our assistance, so we want to put their interests ahead of any political interests this time. In particular, we understand the concerns concerning the way and intensity of the distribution of aid funds. We are also of the opinion that it is virtually impossible in such a limited time period to satisfy the wishes of all market players. However, we are strongly convinced that the law, as it is, will allude financial resources to the right places and in a way that will best help relaunch the Slovenian economy. Finally, we would point to the fact that even in the event of a referendum confirmation of the intervention law, damage would have been done at the time of its invitation to tender. The provision of the aid resulting from the possible call for a referendum would be a severe blow to the Slovenian economy, which would have the greatest impact on the most exhausted sectors of the economy. We must all be aware together that the economy needs us more than ever. But difficult situations call for wise, difficult, and prudent decisions. In accordance with the above facts, we will support the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u36	Your Honor! The Council of State has not voted the procrastination veto on the new intervention law, which provides assistance to the sectors of hospitality and tourism, and we are today deciding, on a proposal from the Government, on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum. The law entails the extension of measures to help farmers, the co-financing of annual leave for the most affected activities, assistance to the meeting industry and events, film and audiovisual activities and cableway operators. In addition to this law, it introduces new vouchers that can be used to pay for hospitality, tourism, sport and culture. Bone will be received by all inhabitants of Slovenia, the entire economy will continue to receive subsidies for shorter working hours. The fact is that the ninth intervention law partially brings the most urgently needed assistance to affected industries, but unfortunately the government has not been disappointed this time, since the new intervention law does not differ from its predecessors. It is covered by provisions which have no link with the economy due to the consequences of the coronary crisis and, as such, are not necessary to ensure the defence of the country, security and to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster that the epidemic is currently causing. The Government of the Member of the National Assembly is putting them in an impossible position because it is actually forcing them to knowingly violate the Constitution. On the one hand, we weigh the assistance offered to the affected industries by the intervention law and, on the other hand, we are aware that there are provisions in the law that do not belong to it. By doing so, it is the sole and exclusive government as the proposer of the one who risks announcing the law and that the necessary sectors will actually receive assistance as soon as possible. Let me remind you that the Commission addressed recommendations to the government to prevent corruption earlier this month regarding the adoption of laws by emergency procedure. In this regard, the Government has explicitly called on the proposal for rules to be dealt with under the urgency procedure not to include provisions which are not justified under the urgency procedure. Unfortunately, this initiative also came across deaf government ears. In the SAB Group, we are confident that the vouchers will be subject to the assistance of the same hotelists as they were in the first phase. We are convinced that if we take into account our Group's proposal for preliminary action, the use would be much higher than 40%. In addition, occasional bus carriers were again forgotten. Guests were promised the so-called start-up aid or cost-covering of damaged and discarded stocks due to the forced cessation of activities. None of this was taken into account in the long - awaited marriage. As a result, we will not support the conclusion in the SAB Group of Members of the Social Liberals.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! On 4 March 2020, in the Republic of Slovenia, we had officially registered the first infection with a new coronary virus. The first outbreak was declared on 12 March. On 18 March, in the National Assembly, we had already adopted the first intervention measures in various areas and only two weeks later, the first so-called anti-Korona package of measures to combat the covida-19 epidemic and mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy. No one then imagined that such a virus would have such a dimension in every area of our lives. They followed up on the adoption of anti-Korona packages to help people, the economy to alleviate and contain this epidemic. Today, we do not know what the anti-Korona law will be to end the country's intervention. We also do not know if such a law will be necessary. It is universally clear, however, that each of the anti-Korona laws reflects an exceptional situation, reflects the crisis situation and the long-term reduction of harmful consequences. Both branches of government, executive and legislative, have been forced to use policies that are hard to imagine. This flexibility, however, is a sign of the power of democratic order, not a sign of its weaknesses. On 21 June this year, the government tabled in the legislative procedure the draft law on intervention measures to help the economy and tourism to ease the COVID-19 epidemic, worth just over €240 million. On 1 July, the competent working body of the National Assembly met, after almost seven hours of discussion with nine votes in favour and no votes against, the amended draft law. At the meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed the proposal a week ago, and after more than three hours of discussion, we voted by 47 votes in favour and only 8 votes against. The Council of State didn't vote veto on this bill yesterday. Today we are called on to vote on whether or not the possible referendum on the ninth anti-Korona law would be admissible. The content of the legal provisions has been subject to a broad debate, which does not suggest a recapitulation. Again, it needs to be stressed what the quantification of all the measures taken so far by the Slovenian State to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic looks like. The independent and independent State Institute of the Fiscal Council has estimated them to be EUR 4 000 995 million, slightly less than five billion. This is more than half of the total revenue of the state budget in 2020. In fact, a very solid dose of mental pathology would be needed for the referendum problem-stricken law, which brings such a large number of people tangible benefits. But we live here and now in Slovenia. The sharp criticisms and outbreaks of hatred not only stem from conflicting ideological and political views, but also from the general human tendency to conceal some unpleasant and sad truths about Slovenian reality. The beauty of democracy in Slovenian is an irresistible source of inspiration for distortions of all kinds, which creates an overpowering aesthetic experience in the audience. In fact, it is some sort of anti-civilisation mockery, which profoundly disrupts the Slovenian political system and the Slovenian society as a whole. In all anti-Korona laws, the content is important, and its rapid implementation and implementation are also important. These are also the three basic guidelines for which Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the law on intervention measures in the field of economy and tourism. We will support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The fact is that we have come to the realization that a co-worker is not only a threat to health but is also a threat to the economy and jobs. The aim of this government has been to maintain a functioning economy and maintain jobs from the start. The measures that have now been taken with regard to co-vid for the economy, job conservation, have been more than effective. The numbers also clearly testify to this. Slovenia is among the first countries of the European Union to grow gross domestic product. Slovenia is among the countries of the European Union that have the least unemployment. Credit rating agencies in Slovenia maintain or increase ratings. This means that Slovenia is on the right track. We are convinced that in the case of referendums, Slovenia would lose the necessary time in all these eight laws and the results would be significantly worse. The situation in the economy would be worse and there would be more unemployment. Covid calls for swift and effective action, so today we will also support the proposal of this Decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Edward Paulich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! As with almost all so-called anti-korona laws, we are also witnessing today that the government is proposing a decision prohibiting referendum decisions on the law. Of course, the Constitution allows for such a prohibition of a referendum initiative, but only for those laws that fulfil any of the substantive conditions laid down in Article 90 of the Constitution. Addressing the consequences of natural disasters, which the covida epidemic is, is one of such reasons if it were really just an intervention law and if it really only contained content concerning the elimination of the consequences of the epidemic. It's not like that. The law can, for example, find a provision governing Sunday's working hours of trade of particular importance, regardless of the size of the store, lasting until the end of 2022. The law also provides for a provision which, if the motor vehicle is cancelled, permanently amends the time limit for the payment of the duty on motor vehicles. This is not at first sight anything that would in any way eliminate the consequences of a natural disaster. It is the same with provisions that provide for VAT exemption for the supply and acquisition of protective and medical equipment, or for the extension of the validity of expired identity cards. None of this is part of the intervention law. In the LMŠ Group, we are once again wondering why the government coalition through intervention legislation is reshaping certain system laws. We have already warned several times, including with the Legislative and Legal Service, that such a way of amending legislation threatens legal certainty and undermines the transparency of the entire legal system. It is an intervention law and should be designed to temporarily regulate a particular area, even if constitutional right to a referendum initiative is to be prohibited in relation to the intervention law. The decision to prohibit the referendum is therefore not justified today, but it is clear that if the coalition majority votes, it will be a legitimate basis for prohibiting the referendum. We will not support this decision in the LMŠ Group because we believe that today it is even more widespread use of this institution, which is being misused too often during the epidemic. No authority that works solely and solely for good purposes and believes in the quality of its decisions should be afraid of the opinion of the people. We wonder why and why this government is afraid of one of the most democratic tools, why it is afraid of its own people. The answer might be last week.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Meira Hot will present the last position, the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have repeatedly pointed out the possibility of challenging the law at the referendum, as well as the fact that laws do not enter into force immediately after adoption, are key features of democratic constitutional regulation. If we break this rule, we are no longer a true democracy. Our Constitution allows for rare exceptional circumstances when these principles can be derogated from. In addition, a regulation was adopted seven years ago to limit referendum decision-making in cases of urgent, urgent measures for the security and defence of the State, in the case of budgetary rules, the adoption of international treaties and in the event of an end to human rights violations. We also supported this arrangement seven years ago because it allows the country to act quickly in exceptional cases. The intervention law can only be proposed by the government, so it also has a great responsibility to reach out to them only in areas where action is truly necessary. Members and Members must be reminded in such cases of the points where the borders are exceeded if we want the law to be informed. Your Honor! When constitutional changes were adopted in this regard, no one could have imagined that in a democratic republic someone could have abused this great trust as thoroughly as that government and its parliamentary supporters did. Since the first day of the epidemic, laws have been accompanied by such proposals for conclusions. From day one, we warn the Government that the ban on the referendum is an extremely sensitive tool, which must be used with extreme caution that there must be nothing in such laws, which is not absolutely necessary and necessary. The government doesn't hear these warnings. In every intervention law, there's an emergency set-up. From the past packages, we recall the overwhelming repressive powers, the permanent reduction of labour rights, standards of environmental protection and safe construction. The government assigns to each of them, of importance to the law, the purpose of which is to justify the ban on the referendum. Since the first so-called antikoronic, this practice has not changed. According to government thinking, everything that is necessary for them is also prohibited from exposing people’s opinions. This practice is being adapted and is being stepped up. If in the first packages we have pointed out the perpetrators in the form of repression and later unconstitutional friendly assistance, somewhere in the middle of this wave the referendum bans were based on the reasons to be taken into account for the swift implementation of the aid. What can I do, please, just for a little peace in the hall?Oh, my God! Days ago, the government extended this harmful practice to the law on communicable diseases, for which it would also ban the referendum. In the face of such eccentric abuse of power and authority, government sins may seem somewhat minor in this law. But in fact, this law does not catch any deadlines for the urgent application or extension of aid. This time, existing aid does not necessarily need to be extended. This law does not restrict human rights. This is what the government wants to continue to do with the decrees, and this law does not address human rights violations, nor does it have anything to do with the security or defence of the country, and this law also contains framed, unrelated, non-necessary content that is not necessarily enforced immediately. Your Honor! This government has lost its ability to distinguish between what is within the constitutional framework and what is not. Its judgement cannot be trusted any more, as its proposals show, inter alia, the prohibition of referendum decisions on the Illustible Diseases Act and on the ninth package of epidemic aid. The government is obviously afraid of people and is therefore avoiding their will. Your Honor! In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not want to hinder the implementation of those aid measures for the people we support. However, we cannot assume responsibility for the content that does not fall within the intervention laws and goes beyond the framework of urgent temporary measures, which could result in the law being subject to a constitutional or referendum judgment. We cannot support the government's position that people in democracy should not decide, so we will vote against the decision banning the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-13-SDZ8-Izredna-78.ana.u45	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted, but you had the chance to sign out. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone want to discuss it under Article 71? I guess not. I conclude the debate and interrupt this item on the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: agenda items 1 and 2. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned first item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on emergency measures in the field of health. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 41. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Intervention Measures to Help the Economy and Tourism to Endure the Consequences of the Epidemic. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 40. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 40.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 78th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
