ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 82nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Igor Peček, Felice Žiža by 2 p.m., Ferenc Horváth by 12 p.m., Maša Kociper from 10. to 12.30 p.m., mag. Marko Koprivc and Matjaž Han. Representatives of the Government were invited to attend the meeting on all agenda items. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 82nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 17 September 2021, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 82nd Extraordinary Session has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investment in Slovenian health in the years 2021 to 2031 under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Minister of Health Janez Poklukar. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u2	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! Since I took over the management of the station, we have been dealing with the back-up virus, so we have focused most of our efforts on the short-term goal I set at the time of my term of office, this is a successful fight against covidu-19. However, I cannot allow a difficult but short-term task of fighting the virus to cloud my long-term goal. Over the years, a number of health challenges have emerged. I would like myself to be able to solve all the problems very quickly, but we must be realistic and realize that we need to introduce the right solutions with strategic thinking, long-term and step by step. I have accepted the invitation to become Minister of Health as an expert to empower our health system, which has been spatial, logistical and humanely fed for years. It is very important that we plan long-term. In the past, strategic planning has been put on the sidelines of health care, and health ministers have changed too quickly. This law, which is before you today, will allow all my successors strategic and long-term planning and development of Slovenian health care. This is an extremely important strategic health law that will enable us to plan the necessary capacities, infrastructure, equipment, information technology and what the epidemic has unleashed, and most importantly: a properly trained sufficient number of personnel. This is the first stone in the mosaic of health care from 2021 to 2031 and gives us the assurance that our health care will also be public, universal and accessible in 2031. To all health - care workers, this law gives us hope, hope, that we will move from words to actions. The law foresees that in the next ten years we will invest €2.093 billion in the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, according to all three levels of healthcare. We will invest 763 million in both university clinical centres, EUR 557 million for the development and modernisation of general hospitals as well as nursing hospitals and homes throughout Slovenia. A total of EUR 250 million is allocated to education, improvement and capacity-building of the faculty. A total of EUR 200 million is earmarked for co-financing to improve infrastructure at the primary level. This on average means EUR 3 million per healthcare home in Slovenia. Your Honor! As with the pandemic, the whole of society needs to be involved in ensuring improvements in the health system. Our common goal is to allow each individual timely, effective and high-quality treatment with a good outcome of treatment. The covid-19 virus has caught up with Slovenian health care in an unenviable state. As a society and a country, we must never allow this to happen again. We need to update the premises and equipment of our health facilities. We need to take care of the quality of healthcare education that is lacking. We need to take care of logistics and digitisation of health care. And what is most important, we must take care of good conditions in Slovenian health care. One of the main reasons for leaving health care is poor working conditions. Health workers don't want luxury facilities. However, they want to create conditions that will enable them to work with dignity and equipment that will enable them to follow modern diagnostic and operational procedures. They simply want to keep pace with the time set by the guidelines for the development of the health system. I thank you for your support in the adoption of the law. Slovenian health care needs your "for" today. Together we need to help the Slovenian healthcare system, so that the health system can help us when we need it most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u3	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mag. Carmen Furman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today's law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in 2021 to 2031 is the first law in 30 years of our independent country, which foresees the urgently needed investment in the health system. The fact is, under the rule of the left-wing governments, the Slovenian health system has become, unfortunately, recognized mainly by outdated facilities, worn-out equipment, lack of personnel and consequently longer waiting types. How urgent the investments in Slovenian health care are, they clearly show the indications of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, which described in June this year the situation in this area: "If we had 67% of equipment write-off in Slovenian hospitals in 2012, this share is already over 80% in 2020. The consequences are felt by employees who work with obsolete equipment in inappropriate situations, especially people who need treatment. Without additional resources, it will not be possible to remedy the development gap and to ensure the increased capacity of the health system.” End of quote. For many years we all know that Slovenian hospitals are old and long. This, of course, results in more expensive maintenance costs, more hospital infections, less productivity and more importantly, this burden is borne mainly by patients at the expense of poorer and more expensive care. In all these years, we have been particularly listening to ourselves about so-called public health care, which has never existed. In the heart of public health care, he must be a patient, and he has never really been a patient in all these years. However, there have been many corruptions, despite different promises, waiting times have been increasing, and a number of actions have been taken to collect plastic stoppers, which, unfortunately, have become the only hope of the sick many times. What priority has been given to investments in health care in all these years to the left governments, last but not least the most eloquent evidence is that in the last 12 years RTV Slovenia has devoted 2.5 times as much money from the state budget as for the new construction and renovation of Slovenian hospitals. However, we have been alerting for more than ten years to the length of hospital equipment and human resources malnutrition in Slovenian health care in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Our parliamentary group also warned the Ministry of Health as an opposition party in this mandate about the lack of staff in Slovenian hospitals. This was the subject of our request for urgent meetings of the committee, but unfortunately, the then - day Charles ’ government did not want to pay special attention. Today, the SDS, as a coalition party, saves human, financial and investment-based health care with the support of a government proposal for a law that provides a good €2 billion for investments in this area over the next decade. The law provides for investments at all levels, namely primary health care and specialised hospitals, the establishment of nursing hospitals and nursing homes as part of the establishment of a long-term care system, the specialisation of smaller general hospitals and the establishment of strong regional hospitals. Investments are also provided for in scientific and educational institutions with a view to rehabilitating the human resources manna in this area. We also followed the proposal of the Association of Slovenian municipalities after providing higher funding for primary health care. At an appropriate level, we have 62 health institutions in Slovenia, which are one of the key pillars of our health system, but have not been invested in them in recent years. It is true that they are the founders of these congregations’ homes, but it is right that the state also provides its assistance here. That is why 200 million euros were provided for by the amendment to the law. Your Honor! The fact is that this law has met the first necessary steps to improve our health system so that our citizens can receive rapid and effective health care when they need it. It is based on its long-term sustainability and functioning, so we will also support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u6	Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! First of all, what are the strategic priorities in Slovenia. Is this the kind of school we're going to be able to build a knowledge society with? Is this a security that will make progress possible? Is that infrastructure? Is this the promotion of green policies or the construction of new and new additional lanes on motorways? Is this health care? Is this health? I'm sure everything's important. But it is urgent to set strategic goals. If we invested as much in health and health in Slovenia in the 1990s, it almost stopped in the new millennium. Seeking the reasons why, not the question of finding responsibility, but finding ways to move forward, how to ensure such a public health system, which will be sustainable, quality and, most importantly, accessible to all under equal conditions. The waiting years, the lack of modern infrastructure, equipment, the lack of doctors, specialists, the lack of caregivers, which is heavily underpaid, all resulted in a general poor state of the health system, which is intertwined by a variety of corruption-related exploits of individuals, unfortunately most often with political support. The real question is therefore not whether we need fresh investment in all segments of health care. The real question is whether we have a system development strategy and whether we need this law in this light at all. There is certainly no dilemma about investment. Of course we need them, absolutely. So today, after a very broad discussion, which we have both made at the first and second readings of this law, there has been a decisive action, a third reading of the Health Investment Act. Today, the law in the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, is confirmed. The government is proposing two billion euros in health investments over the next ten years. It's small, small or enough, it'll show time. What is obvious, however, is certainly a lack of vision and consideration of the reality. In the initial draft law, only EUR 50 million was available for primary health care in ten years. In the opinion of the Association of Municipalities, which are carriers of primary health care, there is a significant lack of capacity, so in the LMŠ, together with opposition parties, we proposed a supplement, an increase of 200 million. The amendment was adopted in the second reading. Thus, it is likely that the municipalities will now have some additional funds available to invest in the first public health bill: the primary level, only to be carried out in a fair and professional manner, especially without political involvement. However, when investing in health care, we must not only look at investing in infrastructure, but also at investing in the personnel that we urgently need. If we look only from the perspective of UKC Ljubljana, we would need 801 nurses and 143 doctors. In the LMŠ Group we therefore support investment in health, but investments must be meaningful, complementary and long-term. However, we cannot help but say that the adoption of the law is probably just a pre-election campaign, as there is currently no fiscal rule. Slovenia is already in charge of 86% of GDP today, with an increase of €7 billion since March 2020 and €3 billion this year. In addition, the coalition adopted the Investment Insurance Act in the Slovenian Army between 2021 and 2026, which will burden the state budget between 2021 and 2026 for 780 million euros, and a long-term supply law is being prepared, which will also have financial implications. The question here is what happens when a fiscal rule is restored. Will we be able to realise the estimated two billion euros for investments in Slovenian health care? These are urgent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u8	Have a nice hello to you all. Follow the line, Your Honor. Today we have a third reading of the law to provide financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the next ten years. Marriage material, especially the goals and solutions of marriage, is indeed at first sight extremely perplexing. According to the representatives of the government and the department ministry or the Minister himself, this is a law that will save Slovenian health care from collapse and raise it to a higher level. Well, problems and questions arise when we read the law carefully and look at it. The law is not as brilliant as it seems, for it has a type of flaws and also so - called gray zones. In our first reading, the Social Democrats gave the opinion of our professional world. Part of this opinion will be quoted again: “A fundamental flaw is the absence of a renewed network of public health institutions. Currently, we have an outdated network of these in particular on the secondary level.” Of course, I'm talking about general and special hospitals. “This network has now been maintained for more than three decades, although the situation at that time has changed significantly. The population has grown old, a type of chronic disease, the development of medicine, and the care has moved on.” End of quote. All public health institutions at secondary and tertiary levels are involved in the drafting of the bill, but all proposals received are taken into account without any serious critical consideration of the real needs, the state of the network and the development of the law. A key objective is the UKC Ljubljana proposal, which would also receive the bulk of these funds. Of course, investments in health care are very urgent and necessary. We already know what the situation is. We've repeated it many times. Equipment consumption of more than 84 %, in buildings more than 80 %. There is no way we can go into this without serious consideration and a renewal of the network. As we have already said, it is important to know first what we are going to do, where we are going to do it, whether we have enough personnel, equipment there, or have enough interventions to do it safely and prudently, or whether we are doing some of the interventions in larger or almost all locations or just one, more of them, a wider team, more thoroughly than it is in the world. It is necessary to improve working conditions and change payment policies in Slovenian public health. In particular, the bill is, if not almost exclusively directed at the walls, and at least where the backlogs are the largest, technological development, the information upgrade of the health system, human development, including the primary network, which we have updated in the democratic opposition. The source of funding is not well-planned, unevenly distributed, or at all unaware of how it will be relatively soon. Social Democrats believe that we need to find a way to actually change the state of Slovenian public health, to think about the network, to think about the other broader needs of our public health system. We are pleased that the item targeted at the primary level has increased according to the original plan, but as has already been said, this law has by no means ensured that the state of our healthcare system will improve dramatically in the short, medium term. Social Democrats support the policy of opinion, support the public use of the mind and certainly not the horrors of populism. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the last year and a half, I do not miss the opportunity not to point out how the Slovenian public health system is in crisis and that the crisis of the Slovenian public health system is not only related to the covida-19 epidemic, but it is something that has been rolling and escalating for the last three decades. Investment in public health has never really been the top priority of the political class. We can also see that in numbers. The developed countries to which they like to compare are allocated 7.2% of GDP on average for investments in the health system, and in Slovenia this figure is only 5.9%. Translated into euro, we are talking between 500 million and 600 million backlogs, as much as Slovenia capitalises on annual investments to strengthen the health system from its budgetary resources. This figure, given through a percentage of GDP, is not linked to the economic power of each country, it is linked to a political priority. The condition of hospitals is therefore well known. We have windows that do not tighten, we have corridors in which beds cannot be turned at all, and health activities carried out in premises since the 19th century. Of course, in Levica we rejoiced in the law, the initiatives to invest more than €2 billion in equipment and in the premises of Slovenian hospitals over the next decade. We cheered him up despite the fact that he does not take his own law seriously. In Levica as socialists, we take priority investments in public health infrastructure seriously. Why can I say that the government of Janez Janša is going to the elections more effectively than is actually correcting the public health system? To begin with, as soon as these ladies and gentlemen took up their mandate, we have been given a law on the table that allows the purchase of weapons, even though we have been in the biggest health crisis in the last 100 years. Only now, a year and a half after the outbreak of covida-19 just before the elections, the government says it will invest in public health systems. Second of all, this law is written lame and impetuous. Among other things, analyses and needs reviews have not been completed, and the law has already been introduced into the national assembly procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how important legislation is written. After all, the law does not even provide dedicated resources to finance the health infrastructure that is to take place through this law. We think as socialists that it is the task of the next government to take the law into its hands, but not to throw it away, but to fix it where the government of Janez Janša failed to make it in a way that it would drink water. Nevertheless, we will also support it in the third reading to commit the next government's priority for the next four years to the fate of the public health system. Yesterday, four opposition parties signed an agreement on allowable cooperation, where we can also find the following: investing in the quality and accessibility of public health, education and long-term care systems, and moving away from leaving the implementation of a private initiative and a free market. This commitment is, to some extent, underlining the support of our Health Investment Act of €2 billion over the next decade. But as it is said, this law is not something that the next government throws out of the window, despite all its mistakes, it must take it out of the drawer and correct it where the government of Janez Janša wrote things sloppily, wrote them down, and left a privatisation hole in it. I think we are in the face of a drastic health crisis far beyond the point where we could refer to legal fiction as a political priority, such as various fiscal rules. As a society we are rich enough, only this created wealth needs to be distributed for the benefit of the public good and for the benefit of the working class we can export despite the plundering of the state budget implemented by the government of Janez Janša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenije Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! Human dignity is the highest value from which human rights have evolved. Human dignity is also the first pillar of our basic programme, the basic programme of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Slovenians value their health immensely. So much so that we place it the highest on the scale of values. Nevertheless, we do not pay enough attention to health. For example, every fifth Slovenian declares that he has not been on any preventive inspection in the last three years. In New Slovenia, at least at the time when our way of life, our health and our lives are threatened by the deadly sars-cov-2 virus, the laws that improve the Slovenian health system link Slovenian political space. Health is one thing. Health isn't left, not right. Only together can we create tectonic movements in the areas of health, education, education and other social subsystems. I expect today's vote on the law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in 2021-2031 to show that care for the health of our people cannot be a political dispute. Parliamentary Group New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will contribute votes to support the law. Support for this law is also a guarantee that we will still have public health in 2031. We are doing nothing but implementing a coalition treaty. In the coalition agreement, we committed ourselves to strengthening the Slovenian public health system. Public health is our concept. It is our first priority in addition to the recovery of the economy. The law comes from our electoral programme, from our commitment to provide substantial financial resources in the long term for investments in Slovenian health care in the next decade. I will not account for the inefficiencies of previous governments, our view is focused on the future. We are aware that only acts count. I would like to say here that New Slovenia is grateful to be able to implement its political agenda within this coalition. In fact, we started it already with the budget rebalancing for this year, where we increased our funds in 2019 by a good EUR 345 million or an index of 288. The numbers show that we are serious that our commitments are not just empty promises. We are not the only ones in New Slovenia. I can also list a number of professional associations. For years we have been reminding of the lack of investment in health care, which has led to the inevitable development backlog of Slovenian health institutions. In New Slovenia and the coalition, we welcome the system's provision of additional financial resources for investments into the health system, since the latter have been heavily financed and overlooked by the regulator in the past. The bill refers to all levels of health care. We have heard interim comments from the professional public that the primary level of the bill is insufficiently addressed. In the general debate, we have already advocated legal solutions that would provide significantly more resources for the primary level. I am pleased that we have raised all the funds for the primary level practically by factor 4, i.e. EUR 200 million. We want the law to really improve the Slovenian public health system with more than €2 billion of resources, and in this way we express our concern for the health of everyone living on our soil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In the current debates on the proposal for a law regulating urgent investment in Slovenian health for the next ten years, we have had the opportunity to learn about the data on public investment in our health care. If, according to our expertise, we can be satisfied to follow the developed countries, we certainly do not care about the fact that we are stuck with investments in the 1980s. Therefore, the proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care between 2021 and 2031 must touch all levels of health care, from spent equipment to infrastructure. This depends to what extent we will be able to introduce new treatment procedures and provide safe treatment. For the latter, not only adequate infrastructure and equipment is sufficient, but a sufficient number of adequately trained health personnel. The bill we are considering is two billion euros heavy and responds to the many needs of our health system. By means of funds intended for both university clinical centres carrying out secondary and tertiary activities, the bill will provide a realistic opportunity for the development of staff with the most advanced knowledge and skills and transfer of practices, new methods of diagnosis and treatment from abroad. Both university clinical centres are currently operating in an unappreciative situation and conditions that get a sense of their dimension when compared with university clinical centres of more developed European countries. As far as general hospitals are concerned, we know that they perform surgical, paediatric, specialist and gynaecological activities in addition to general inter-agency activities. At work, they face spatial distress, and many departments operate in obsolete and completely inappropriate spaces and use spent equipment at work. Special hospitals have been no more in an envious position than other hospitals in terms of investment in recent years. Special hospitals cover specialities such as rehabilitation, oncology, pulmology, orthopaedics and specific treatment of children, and is a straight-up incomprehensible multi-year stagnation from the investment point of view of such an important segment of Slovenian health. In the future, the need to treat patients will be increased in areas covered by special hospitals in Slovenia, especially oncology, rehabilitation and pulmonology. We discussed mental health a lot during the epidemic. The topic is not directly related to the matter that we are dealing with, since mental health is an integral part of the overall health of an individual. However, in the health system that the state must provide to every citizen within the framework of comprehensive healthcare, mental health is certainly one of the segments that we must not neglect anymore. We therefore welcome the planned construction of a psychiatric clinic with an ER and the construction of a research development centre for mental health. A few more words about numbers. For both university clinical centres, the bill provides EUR 763 million. General and nursing hospitals and nursing homes will receive financial support of €557 million. Psychiatric hospitals will receive investments of EUR 50 million. Primary health activities will be allocated EUR 200 million. For investments in equipment and infrastructure of the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, the National Institute for Public Health and the Institute for Transfusion Medicine, funds of EUR 33 million are planned. For higher education institutions for a single master's programme of medicine at the University of Maribor and Ljubljana and for secondary schools in the field of health, funds amounting to EUR 250 million are allocated. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u16	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! If the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in Slovenian health care today is supported enough, almost two billion euros should be provided to Slovenian health care by 2031. Most of the resources are intended to be dedicated to the construction of new infrastructure. At first glance, it is a necessary law, because there is no doubt about the malnutrition of Slovenian health care. Investments are an emergency. But things aren't that simple. Writing down what will be financed in the coming years is not difficult. Paper takes everything, and the government knows it. But everything planned to actually be implemented and financed is completely different. The current government likes to commend it for addressing issues that have not been addressed by previous governments and for resolving the problems that have plagued Slovenia since its independence. However, we fear that this is all because of the continuous deepening of public debt, which is the highest in history, and the accumulation of budgetary deficits only for empty promises that cannot be fulfilled in red numbers. In the coming years, something will be significantly different from the current situation. It will be necessary to pay and return the questions of this government and the constraints on spending budgetary money will be great. On the wings of the possibility of deviation from the fiscal rule, the government is spreading money, completely ignoring the fact that only a temporary derogation from the medium-term balance of public finances is permissible. If this goes on, it will be impossible to achieve medium-term balance in this century for Slovenia of the mission. No one disputes the fact that an effective and accessible health system is necessary for the welfare of all citizens, but during the second reading of the law, we in the SAB Group have been alerted both at the meeting of the parent working body and at the meeting of the National Assembly to the inadequate resolution of the problems which the primary level has. The original bill provided that only EUR 50 million would be allocated for it. Now 150 million euros are available at the primary level. But this is with all the financial consequences that this law brings, just spitting into the sea, because if the law cannot be implemented because of large financial obligations, even this 150 million euro does not mean anything. I have already mentioned the possibility of derogating from the fiscal rule that the government uses and unfortunately takes advantage of too many times. If the government really took and financed only measures that were actually linked to the smoothing of the consequences of the epidemic, then neither public debt nor budget deficits would reach record numbers. However, as money has spread far beyond that, for example, by overpayment of crown allowances to certain groups, we are where we are, with the already mentioned historical highest public debt of more than EUR 40 billion, and the budget deficit of over 4 billion this year. In the last two years, debt has risen from 65% to over 80% of gross domestic product. Any serious leader should know what such indebtedness means for the economic sovereignty of the State. In view of the current situation, there are two options for us: whether the current government knows significantly little about public finances or knows enough, but it simply cares about what debts it will leave to future generations. But the consequences of these reckless and record-breaking debts will not only be faced by the next generation, but by us. The times ahead will be hard. Investments will have to be considered, and the leaders will have to bear in mind the need to pay and pay back the farm debt, so they will have to think about everything that the current governments obviously don't care about. How will all these ambitious projects be financed? Where will the state, in addition to European funds, provide its own resources? Once again, I would like to point out that the projects discussed by law are supported precisely because they are necessary, but they need a serious approach and solutions that will be sustainable and certainly feasible. We are so concerned that these projects will have so many experiences of fate. After the openings of the projects, the construction will begin, and then the money will run out and the semi-finished buildings will spend decades alone in the eyes of our craftsmen, the same craftsmen they will have to pay off. For all the reasons mentioned in the SAB Group, we remain detained until such a proposal is made and cannot support it. We will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Today we have the last time on the table, this time within the framework of the third reading a law which aims at the long-term sustainability of the Slovenian healthcare infrastructure and a sufficient amount of adequately trained staff to meet all needs, including the needs of an ageing population in Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we keep reminding ourselves of the urgency of meeting the challenges of an ageing society, and we are aware that time is not our ally in this type of planning. Immediate proactive action is needed to ensure conditions for effective public health and to regulate the long-term care sector. Health is an area where needs are increasing and therefore we cannot afford stagnation in the field of modernisation, equipment and infrastructure. The proposal for a law in the next ten years for the realisation of investments amounts to more than €2 billion and foresees a pre-distribution of funding across sub-systems, as there are different needs and priorities. As part of the second reading of the bill, we supported an amendment that provides more money to primary health. Family medicine is the basis for stable health care and an important point where a patient enters the system. On this occasion, I must also mention the importance of the entire medical team. While this is not directly the subject of today's law, it is not too important to stress once again that all of the members of the healthcare team play an extremely important role. Their validity should be reflected in the relationship as well as in the payment. This is a pitiful area where much effort will have to be made. The law identifies both clinical centres in Ljubljana and Maribor as a key pillar of development, with the largest resources: €595 million for real estate investments and € 168 million for investment in equipment, telemedicine and information technology. It is right that Slovenian medicine, which has always achieved the highest results and internationally recognised achievements, should be able to provide an enabling environment for further achievement of the development breakthrough. For the long-term sustainability and effectiveness of the healthcare system, it is also essential to increase the number of admission places and the law addresses this issue. Enrollment in a single master's degree in medicine, dental medicine and pharmacies and other health education programmes is increasing with the aim of strengthening the healthcare system for a long time and bringing it closer to the European average. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the key roles of effective public health in our country. To make the system the way we want it, we need vision and resources. The law we are considering today will be a framework and a basis for further work. In the DeSUS Group, the proposal of the Law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021 to 2031 will be supported by a majority. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u20	In the next ten years, we have supported the proposal for a law on the provision of funding for investments in Slovenian health care in the first reading. We also supported the amendment, which added an additional EUR 50 million for investments at the primary level of healthcare. Unlike most coalition MPs, who will emphasise in the next election campaign in election candy-style that they have provided two billion euros for health care, our group understands that the aim and purpose and thus the weight of this law are more important than the electoral posters with the inscription of two billion. The content should be weighed in terms of better quality health care for our patients and patients, their treatment by competent and well paid personnel and excellent health infrastructure or modern medical equipment. That's what really matters. The bill also does not provide for the automatic flow of funds for investments or for the walls of hospitals and health homes, but will have to be provided in each budget document, i.e. depending on the efforts of the Minister and every government. In each budget planning, it will have to balance expenditure for this purpose and thus assess the budgetary situation and anticipate the level of resources for each year, which the proposal for a law provides only in a framework. However, we well know what the current government is like or what kind of expansional dot it leaves behind. The Fiscal Council rightly reminds us that the existence of exceptional circumstances must not be used to take measures that reflect the pre-election wishes of the rulings. If we fail to respond properly to these warnings, there will be only a good 200 000 euros left for health care. And then it will have to be pointed out to those whose legacy of this mandate will not reflect concern for the long-term sustainability of public finances. Medical personnel. It is also an important point of this law, but not only of this law, but of the entire health system. We are faced with a critical lack of care in our hospitals. It is true that the bill also addresses this issue, but the ten-year implementation period of this law is too slow to solve this acute problem. Without an immediate solution to the critical lack of care and healthcare personnel planned investment in new hospitals and apparatus in the coming years, the accessibility and quality of our health care for patients will not improve. The new buildings will be lonely and the patients will be waiting for empty but modern walls. No one really wants this, so call on the minister to really try to stop the exodus of nursing and health personnel through complementary measures. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will also support the draft law in the third reading. In our opinion, however, the inflows to Slovenian health care over the next ten years are likely to be higher than if this law were not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u22	Have a good day to all present! By adopting the law, we will devote more than two billion euros to Slovenian health care. It sounds a lot, but if we count it, it's a period of ten years and it's committed to the infrastructure of the Slovenian health system at the annual level. There is no doubt that funds are urgently needed in this area. If we have invested a great deal of money in the Slovenian Army, it is only right that additional and urgently needed funds also get the health system. However, we are concerned about the control over the use of these funds. As I said in the debate on the second reading of the law, it would make sense to set up a committee composed of the opposition and coalition MPs in order to inform Members of the use of these funds. In any case, these two Members would report to the Health Committee. We still don't know where they went today when we were reducing waiting lines. But waiting species are still the same or even larger. No matter who is in power, a certain part of the funds simply disappears in such large-scale financial deposits. So far, no government has effectively tackled the draining of public funds from the Slovenian health system. We believe that there is still a great deal to be done for good spending control, which means that we already have a lot of financial reserves today. We are concerned about the existing health infrastructure, which is not fully exploited. Many facilities are standing and are not used and patients are sent across Slovenia, perhaps even abroad. A good economist makes sure that the machines in production work all the time. In particular, health-care directors should first ensure that existing infrastructure is used at all times. But with the new infrastructure, we will not solve the human resources issue. Although we're going to gain a lot of new space, we're wondering who's going to be working in this room. It is true that new vacancies are being introduced in medicine, dental medicine and pharmaceuticals, but it will take a decade for the staff to start doing their own work. We are at least ten years behind the call for additional study posts. On the other hand, existing human resources, which are good, work extra during the afternoon. Healthcare professionals should be stimulated to do every job in the public health system. Such stimulation would prevent medical personnel from going abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is 15 minutes after the end of Agenda 2. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal for a law on the supplementation of the law on pension and invalidity insurance within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by groups of eight Members with the first signed Miho Kordiš. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Micha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. Slovenian pension legislation is very complicated. It has been amended several times to reach nearly 400 articles. Of course, there are injustices in this legislation. It is probably the largest that some pensions continue to last less than 300 euros a month. In Levi, we have tried to correct this injustice in the past. Unfortunately, we haven't collected enough votes, but our pressure has paid off. The lowest full-time pensions went on our initiative over 600 euros a month. Unfortunately, this is not the only injustice that is comparable to the current and future pensioners in pension law. Today, on our initiative, we are considering the proposal to recognise this payment to self-payers who have paid out of their pocket in their pension allowance. What am I talking about? The Slovenian pension law allowed the insured to pay their pension bills for their pension, although they may have been unemployed, even though they were waiting for their retirement, the workers were reprimands and so on, because of this status they did not separate their contributions to the pension register as otherwise. Although these people were in severe psychosocial distress, they wanted to protect at least their own safe age with denial in the present. Then came the so-called Visionary Act, which, as of 1 January 2013, the Institute of Self-Payment for Pensions, as it was known to him, abolished it, and at the same time the state of these self-payers, future pensioners, did not notify them of anything, the pension rights for which they paid them did not give them up, nor did it pay them back their money. Can you imagine being robbed by your own social state? In 2017, the correction followed, which eased this injustice for a certain part of the pensioners of self-payers, but only to those who paid up until 1 January 2013. For those who kept paying, he didn't do it. That's what we're doing in Levica today. We're talking about nine thousand insurers, two thousand of them are already retired, seven thousand are still waiting, they need to be taken care of. These people have paid, paid in spite of their social distress, and it is right for the state to recognise these rights and allow them the safe age they hoped for with each payment to the pension fund. Especially because this is a mistake and this injustice is from the beginning to the end not on the shoulders of an individual, but on the shoulders of our system. As the legislation changed, such self-payers were not notified in any way to the pension register, nor were they paid to the TRR pension fund in any way rejected. And people continued to pay for rights that they could no longer use. And the only thing that's right is for this country to fix its ferret, this stepmother's attitude towards the pensioners of self-payers, and to give people the rights they paid for. It is not the first time that we have tried to rescue these self-payers with a parliamentary initiative in Levica. A good year ago, we tabled an amendment to the amendments to pension legislation that would do just as well as our novel today, even though we agreed with the right-wing tribunal, that this is indeed the injustice that needs to be corrected and that we will win votes, then this did not happen. That is why we are trying again today, this time just with the novelty of pension legislation. I hope at least this time we find the political will to help people. These people are in trouble, the country literally stole them. And this is not the place where we account for political prestige, this is the place where we step together and correct injustice. Even the coalition part of the Parliamentary Chamber should not have any substantive reservations, because our solution is one, the same, identical as the coalition type offers itself in its amendments to the legislation already in the parliamentary procedure. There's just no reason to keep waiting for these changes. That's enough. Let's help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 58th emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the draft law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Miho Kordiš to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. The Committee was provided with material which was published on the websites of the National Assembly, namely the draft law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, the request for an extraordinary meeting and the amendments tabled. The Committee was co-chaired by a representative of the proposers, a representative of the Government, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, a representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. Amendments were also tabled within the time limit, namely the amendments of the Levica Group of Members to Articles 1, 2 and 3. The representative of the motions presented the bill and the representative of the government explained in the introduction that the government does not support the bill. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee and said that they supported the proposed text or amendment. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their opinion and said that the Legislative and Legal Service already assesses in principle that the amendment of legislation which introduces provisions into its substantive provisions which also affect the status behind violates the principle of legal predictability and legal certainty, as set out in the principle of the rule of law under Article 2 of the Constitution. Such solutions are also questionable from the point of view of Article 14 of the Constitution, which provides for legal equality in its second paragraph. The applicant wishes to regulate the proposed situation back from 2013 onwards and it is therefore necessary to state the reasons which, under Article 155 of the Constitution, justify the retroactive application of a law to which the legislative material is not adequately defined. The legislative and legal service has also made nomotechnical comments on the proposal for a law. These comments have been taken into account by the amendments tabled, and the latter are subject to the same comments as the proposed law. In a short discussion, the representative of the proponents stressed that with regard to the information provided by the insured, the expectation that all individuals would know and understand the changes made to the legislation is illusory. Many continued to pay in the very hope that they would meet the conditions for retirement immediately. The legislator of insured persons voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance has not properly informed what rights they may expect on the basis of inclusion in the insurance. Following the discussion, the Committee voted on and adopted the amendments tabled by the Levica Group of Members to Articles 1, 2 and 3. In view of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which is also an integral part of this report, is now being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory explanation of my opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia received a proposal for a law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the first-signed Miho Kordis. Applicants shall propose a different arrangement for the non-compensation of pension periods for certain insured persons who have been voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance. The applicants point out that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act has greatly exacerbated the conditions for retirement, and they consider that the concept of retirement without a pension has not been adequately designed. While the concept of non-retirement pension periods has changed several times since the entry into force of the law, in their view it is still not appropriate for individuals who are or have been included in compulsory insurance voluntarily, since it does not sufficiently address this problem. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia delivered its opinion on the text of the proposal submitted in May 2021 in its opinion of 10 June 2021. For reasons such as lack of knowledge of the rules, the applicants merely state that there is a lack of sufficient reason to change the regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Andrea Zabret will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! There is only one constant in the Republic of Slovenia regarding the condition of retirement, namely changes. The conditions for retirement are changing, demographics are changing, labour market movements are changing, and consequently the amount of funds available in the pension register. That is also why the pension system and all its specificities are sometimes difficult to understand. But with the changes, we have to admit that in retrospection, we have done some kind of wrong. The bill that we are considering today seeks to remedy the injustice that has occurred to insured persons who are after 1. 1. Therefore, after the entry into force of the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2, remained voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance and continued to pay contributions from pension and disability insurance, they do not know that the period for which they paid contributions under the PPIZ-2 will not be considered as a retirement period without redemption. Those persons would have a period of payment of contributions from 1. 1. Until the first termination of that insurance after a new calculation in the pension period without being paid under the provisions of the ZPIZ-2, of course, provided that contributions were paid for that period. The problem concerns some 10,000 people, some 3,000 of whom are already retired and 7,000 are still awaiting retirement. The financial implications of the correction are expected to amount to €1.4 million per year. In the LMŠ we are aware that several novels of the ZPIZ-2 have been adopted in the last period, which significantly change the pension and disability insurance system, which will not have an impact on it. However, we have also heard the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia, which often faces complaints from insured persons who have remained involved in voluntary insurance even after 1. 1. In 2013 and only on the basis of the calculation of the conditions for retirement, they found that that period of voluntary inclusion in the insurance did not allow them the right to obtain an old person’s pension, but only an early retirement pension. The problem, however, usually affects people with low financial capacity, including unemployed people, who paid contributions with the help of a larger or larger family, expecting them to receive a retirement pension after 40 years of age and 60 years of age. In addition, in the LMŠ, we call for greater vigilance of the public authorities to inform individuals of the consequences of certain legal changes, rather than leave them with the obligation to determine for themselves what has changed, especially when the authorities themselves have all the necessary data on beneficiaries, and in particular when it comes to older ones. In conclusion, given that we are clearly going to increase the expenditure limit of this year's budget by as much as €670 million in a short period of time, without any explanation as to where half of these funds will go, it seems that €1.4 million is worth of change, especially because it is primarily the most vulnerable segment of the population. We will vote in favour of the bill in the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members, distinguished Members of Parliament! The Social Democrats support today's amendment to the law, which provides that the period of payment of contributions from 1 January 2014 to the first retirement break is also considered to be the period of payment of contributions following the amendment of pension legislation in 2012. This proposal will address the injustice caused to all insured persons who paid their own contributions to pension and disability insurance after the expiry of unemployment benefits, without knowing that this period of voluntary payment of contributions due to the adoption of PPIZ-2 after 1 January 2013 will not be considered a retirement period without a purchase. Most of these insurers are only informed of the change in legislation when calculating the conditions for retirement, where they find that voluntary payment of contributions does not allow them the right to an old retirement, but only early retirement. This means that, in the event of retirement, they must accept a lower pension or extend their employment until they meet the conditions for retirement. According to the pensioners' associations, this is mainly for low-income people, including many unemployed people who paid contributions with the help of a larger and larger family, and expected to receive a retirement pension when they meet the conditions of 40 years of retirement and 60 years of age. The proposed amendment will thus significantly strengthen the social situation of this group of insurers and pensioners, as the deduction for each missing month of retirement without the sum of the pension substantially reduces the amount of the pension in the event of early retirement. Even though we will support today's proposal, we reiterate the consequences of the partial changes in pension insurance that we have been accepting recently almost every month. Another proposal to amend pension legislation is tabled in the legislative procedure, this time by the ruling coalition, which also brings social corrections to individual groups of insurers, and thus higher expenditure on pension funds. In order to ensure the long-term stability of the pension system, we will need to take a more comprehensive look at our pension system, which should include possible elimination of injustices and measures for the financial sustainability of the system. Only then will we be able to maintain within the pension system a fragile intergenerational solidarity and pensions that will enable people to live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Change. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. What is the purpose of the marriage, we have heard many times today. The applicant explained the situation very clearly in the introduction. The law simply eliminates the injustice, the injustice that has occurred to a group of people in this country who, under some legislation, have paid contributions to pension and disability insurance, thinking that this will eventually be paid to them or counted during the retirement period. In the meantime, there was a crisis, a change in PIZ occurred, and in the meantime, the law changed in the way that these contributions or this inclusion in compulsory insurance were no longer counted in the retirement period without the sum total, and in the end these people, who, without knowing that this amendment of the law had happened, still paid these contributions on average for about 6 months, ended up without what they thought would belong to them. They remained either in a situation in which they had to retire later than expected, or they retired with persistent young people, meaning long - term lower pensions and consequently higher poverty in their old age. This is mainly about people coming from socially weaker environments. We must bear in mind that these contributions have been paid with effort, denial, and in the end they have been duped. The main problem is that the State did not inform these insurers of their failure to take this into account in their pensions at the time of the Janšev government when Vizjak changed the law. This is one of the major mistakes made by the state and it is difficult to expect people to face the challenge of surviving from day to day, monitoring current changes and what this means for them. This could be the responsibility of each individual, but it is also the initial responsibility of the State to communicate adequately with its inhabitants and residents and to make them aware of the changes that are taking place. These changes and this complication have, as it were, caused one great injustice. Today, we have heard that we have about 8,000 people who have literally been tricked. With this law, if adopted, this injustice is being corrected immediately today. In fact, we are purely procedural in a very interesting situation. Yesterday, on the Labour Committee, this law received the support of all parliamentary groups represented in the Labour Committee, with the exception of coalition parties. It should be noted that the parties to the coalition have tabled a similar proposal two months after us, which regulates the same matter and is practically identical. To move forward in order to get rid of this matter faster, we have proposed amendments in Levica that literally prescribe the dictions proposed by the coalition MPs in their marriage into our law, and today it is a very simple decision on the table. We can decide today on a law that is identical to the law of the coalition and the situation for these 8,000 people to be resolved today - the deadline is very short and will enter into force after the publication of the Official Journal - or because of political prestige we are waiting for a month or more to pass the coalition law. Once again, the dictates of both laws are exactly the same. Today's decision is simply whether we want to correct this injustice immediately, or whether because of political prestige and the proponents we will wait for it to happen in a month or two. I don't think there should be a dilemma here. We must put political prestige aside, and I very much want and hope that today this law will receive absolute unanimous support, and that we will allow those people, at least for them, a slightly easier age in terms of low pensions or in fear or waiting for them to retire on social support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. The amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of the Group of Deputies of Levica provides that insured persons who are after 1. 1. 2013 remained voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance and continued to pay contributions after that date, the period of payment of contributions from 1. 1. Until the first interruption, 2013 shall be considered as a retirement period without totalling. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance shall, within six months of the entry into force of the law, provide all such insured persons with an official duty to receive a new pension or to give them an old-age pension instead of an early retirement pension. Retirement must be fair and adequate. Those who have worked their whole lives must live a decent and independent life in the fall. Whoever has paid more in the pension fund has a higher pension, as we have different amounts of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Whoever raised the kids has to have a higher pension for that. We must actively fight against poverty at the age of the most affected women. Benefits from disability insurance must ensure a decent life. Justice between generations is governed by an intergenerational contract and a pension. Due to the increasing life expectancy, we need to strike a long-term balance between pension benefits from pension insurance, retirement age and pensions. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we will support the proposal, although we are not on the committee, because we do not support plagiarism. The Left has made copies of our proposal to amend the ZPIZ as our proposals have been more appropriate, which she has also acknowledged in her own explanation of the amendment. Although this proposal is partial, does not regulate the area in its entirety and covers only one group of pensioners, we will support the proposal, as we are aware that we can also change Slovenia for the better by taking small steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u38	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In the autumn of last year, we adopted a new law on pension and disability insurance, which arranged exemptions from the buying-in period after the ZPIZ-2, to treat the accumulated period before 31 December 2012 as the same as the non-compensation pension period and as the period of voluntary insurance under the condition of payment of contributions. Unfortunately, however, we did not address those insured who remained involved in voluntary insurance after 31 December 2012, this is after the adoption of the new pension law ZPIZ-2, which he no longer knew. Thus, they remained voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance and continued to pay contributions under this heading without knowing that the period for which the contributions were paid in accordance with the ZPIZ-2 would not be taken into account during the retirement period without totality, one of the solutions which was already proposed in the form of an amendment at the time of the adoption of the aforementioned amendment, so that the period of insurance after 1 January 2013 will also be considered as a non-compensated retirement period until the first termination of that insurance. Since the amendment was not adopted at the time, today we have before us the amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which again addresses this issue, which, according to the proposaler, faces some ten thousand individuals. Following the adoption of the amendment, a new pension would be awarded within six months of the entry into force of the Act, or a retirement pension would be awarded to them instead of an early retirement pension, taking into account the earlier period from 1 January 2013 to the first termination of the insurance. In the SAB Group, we will support the proposal of the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Before us is the novel ZPIZ-2 marked K. The latter means the 11th intervention in reformed legislation governing pension and disability insurance, which took place on 1 January 2013. The aim of the reform was to stabilise the sustainability of the pension fund and to halt the fall in pension levels. The effects of the reform are seen and maintained, but they will not be as far-reaching as was originally predicted, as a number of solutions have been adopted in the last period that interfere with the reform in a way that mitigates the measures aimed at tightening the pension conditions. The next reform is at the door, how restrictive it will be, we don't know. However, we must not close our eyes to the fact that people rightly expect their contributions paid and their pensions to be fully enjoyed. In the Desus Group, we are fully aware of what partial interventions in the entire pension system mean, especially how the distance of a new solution to the back can financially affect the pension fund. Partial interventions are certainly additional risk moments for some systemic arrangement, as any social group in any case remains always disadvantaged. In the DeSUS Group, we understand everything, and we do not want to exclude anyone who thinks that they have been wronged in any way because of their expected confidence in their future social security, to which they have contributed at their own best and in accordance with every legal arrangement offered. The fact is, the pension system is a pretty complicated system, almost completely incomprehensible for a layman. That is why it is so much more expected of the competent institutions to show users in a simple and comprehensible way that they are specifically and in a timely manner aware of the consequences of the innovations brought about by legislative changes. In the White Paper on pensions in 2016, the thesis was put on the necessity of simplifying the system of designation of different periods of insurance and unification within the term of the insurance period. Therefore, this adopted document in the three years following the reform also officially acknowledged that the system is too complicated and too fragmented. The preservation of the expected rights of various ages is therefore even more on the ground, as the 2012 reform, by renaming and re-valuing the age, has somehow led a number of insurers who are thirsty over water in their good faith into the possibility of full old age retirement. Thus, many pensioners have remained empty despite the payment of contributions, and the legal title of the contribution is not important at this time. Retirement recipients are supposed to somehow reflect the amount of funds paid for the duration of the insurance. From the point of view of voluntary entry into this insurance, this certainly justifies it. We will unanimously support the significant legislative change in the Desus Group. With it, all pensioners and all voluntary insurance insurers will receive full old-age pensions, provided that they have been included in such insurance for the period of the reform, until the moment of the first termination of the insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u42	Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! This novelty of the pension law removes the current situation in pension law, under which insured persons who continued to pay voluntary contributions to pension and disability insurance after first January 2013 were not counted in the pension period without the sum that the pension reform in 2012 re-arranged and thus abolished until then the applicable term of employment. The purpose of the marriage novelty is, therefore, to allow a little less than 10 thousand insured persons who have been voluntarily involved in pension and disability insurance after 2013 and until the first interruption, this is considered to be a non-comprehensible pension period. This in practice means that the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance will give them a new pension, which will be higher than the one they are currently receiving. We supported the amendment in the Group of Non-Aligned Members yesterday at the meeting of the parent working body and will also be in the final vote today. Indeed, the solution is not systematic and comprehensive and raises some systemic questions. Such partial interventions in pension and disability insurance also violate the coherence and basic principles of pension insurance. However, today's proposal is in fact a response to the amendment of the pension legislation of 2017 when practically the same solution became legal for the category of beneficiaries who were included in voluntary insurance up to 31. 12. 2012. If so, we should complement these changes today for the other categories of beneficiaries, because they do not differ significantly. It is also interesting that the government does not support the bill. Members of the Coalition have recently tabled in the parliamentary procedure a bill proposing an identical solution. The law on yesterday's committee was also not supported by the coalition. This indicates that they are waiting for their marriage, and today’s political context is not good enough for them, even though it is substantively the same. Then find out who can! Notwithstanding today's support for the law, it is also appropriate to point out, in the end, the assessment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office or the Director of the Papal Institute, who warns that a pension register was cleaned years ago with the aim of making all payments based on the contributions paid. More and more social corrections have been introduced recently. With all partial solutions in recent years and those still forecasting, there is a devaluation of the pension system without a real assessment of whether it interferes with the system or whether the contributions paid are maintained. Social security policy should be primarily addressed outside the pension system. Nevertheless, we will support the amendment of the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u44	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, nice greetings to all present and others! By 2013, many had paid for their retirement. Among the people was the belief that if they bought up their retirement, they would be able to leave early for a well - deserved retirement. This has changed with the introduction of an uncompensated retirement age. Unfortunately, to the detriment of those who paid for it. Of course, this change raised a lot of dust and was written in all the media. The law was also sought in the Constitutional Court. This decided that the change of law was not inconsistent with the Constitution. As I'm already used to at Levica, this time he's fixing something that's not exactly in line with the law, but it's very popular for people. The fact is that in Slovenia we have had problems with poverty in all areas for years. Since 2008, when we have been in the economic crisis, we have been hunting and hunting. Most often, it is the purchase of this transfer and the search for solutions to the detriment of citizens. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that several laws need to be amended. It's also a law that we're talking about today. But we must not forget that this kind of intervention must be done wisely. The left will slowly have to realize that a small, popular change affects significantly more areas. I am aware that in this area, social life has changed a lot over the past 15 years, most often in the short term for the benefit of citizens, but in the long run to great harm. I am aware that we are biting into a very sour apple with the correction of this area, but we cannot agree to any of the proposals that we like and are surface-prepared in the Slovenian National Party. It is not enough just to eliminate alleged injustice, but it must be corrected so that we will never have to make corrections again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 82nd extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the 11th and 50th minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.35 p.m. and resumed at 11.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u46	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of financial resources for investments in Slovenian health care in the years 2021 to 2031 under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the draft law have not been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 68 votes against 2. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act under the ordinary procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Miha Kordiš has an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Slovenian pension system is very complex and extensive, and the legislation itself has almost 400 articles. It is not surprising that these and those injustices hinder her from this and those groups of pensioners. Fortunately, in Levica, we were able to undo some of these injustices in the past. Above all, I would like to point out the rise in the lowest full-time pensions to EUR 620. The second injustice, which we have been addressing since 2017, is injustice, committed to self-payers. According to those unemployed workers, people who waited for retirement and paid out of their own pocket in spite of social hardship for a safe age in a public pension. On 1 January 2013, Vision’s law came into force, which eliminated the possibility of self-remuneration, while at the same time preventing people who paid out of their pockets for a safe age from exercising their pension rights for which they paid, nor did they pay money back to the people. It was a robbery of citizens and citizens on a white day. Fortunately, the problem was diagnosed and resolved to some extent in 2017, but only for those self-payers who paid up until 1 January 2013, but not for all others who continued to pay up. The State did not notify them of any changes to pension legislation, nor did it prevent their further payment to the pension register with the thought and expectation of a safe age. These people are about nine thousand. Two thousand of them are already in retirement, and seven thousand are still waiting for retirement. In Levi, we went to the amendment of pension legislation, desiring that these people, the self-sufficient people who had been wronged by the state, that the money had been taken away from them and that it had not been admitted to them by what they had paid, that we should correct that in order to eliminate the injustice and finally make the people's safe age possible. Of course, I will vote in favour of this law in the hope and expectation that it will be adopted and that it will be adopted by all the votes we have in this national assembly. It would be right, and it would be fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-09-29-SDZ8-Izredna-82.ana.u48	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 82nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
