ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 84th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Andrej Chernigoj, Sam Bevk, Mag. Marko Koprivc, Nik Prebil, Victory Jelinčič Nobility, Franc Jurša, Ivan Hršak, Monika Gregorčič, Iva Dimic from 13 till 14:00, Mihael Prevc from 13:00 to 15:00, Aleksander Reberšek from 15:00 on, Aljaž Kovacič, Jerca Korče, Jani Möderndorfer, Anja Bah Žibert, Mateja Udovč and Bojana Muršič. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 84th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The draft agenda was received on Tuesday, 5 October 2021 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 84th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY’S READ — ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RECOMMENDATION RELATING TO THE PLANT FINANCIAL EXPRESSION OF THE SLOVENIA NEWS BACKWIDES ARE FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by the Group of 43 Members and Members with the first supported mag. Alenko Bratusek. With regard to this proposal, the Group of the 43rd Members and Members, with the first signed mag. Alenko Bratušek requested that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, mag. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word and a nice greeting to all present. Today you have already left the Government and the STA coalition without legal pay for the work done. I asked the gentlemen of Uko yesterday if he would be willing to work for 280 days, go to work for free. I didn't get an answer, and he ran away from the meeting. Today I'm asking the same question to the secretary of state. Secretary of State, are you ready to go to work 281 days without the employer paying you for this? Are you prepared to return about 50,000 euros as you received to pay for your work in these 280 days? This is what you require of STA employees, and this is what you demand of them in contravention of the law. AS OUR country celebrates 30 years of its existence and good work this year. It is a company or institution that first reported events related to the independence of our country 30 years ago. The President of the Republic, Borut Pahor, recently awarded the Slovenian Press Agency a state medal, an order of credit. The STA received the award for 30 years of the irreplaceable agency mission in the media area and for an important role during the period of Slovenia's independence, they justified the award in the Office of the President of the Republic. The Slovenian Press Agency and the Republic of Slovenia are inseparable lines. They were born at a turning point, they went through self-absorbing shocks and grew up together. Both of them were born out of urgency and ascension, and now they are both entering a new maturity period, and today the credibility of the information is as important as it was 30 years ago, so the role and responsibility of the Slovenian Press Agency continue to be irreplaceable, and the President's distinction has been justified. And you, a respected coalition, are now ready to destroy both of you. STA is just before bankruptcy and unfortunately our country is just before bankruptcy, not financially, although it is not far away, but before the collapse of the values for which our ancestors fought for decades. If we were to talk today in the National Assembly about the Government having to respect the laws, it is shocking and there would be no such government in a normal democratic state. And all the honourable Members who hold this stand are guilty and responsible. Full mouths praised you for your economic growth and low unemployment rates. Which one of you will take responsibility for 100 unemployed people, especially journalists and others working in the U.S.A.? Which one of you will have the courage to stand before their families, their children, and tell them that Mom or Dad is out of a job because of you? And this is not because you would not do your job well enough, but simply because you do not pay your job and are responsible twice as a government that is obliged to pay for the public service performed, which is what does it in accordance with the law and as the owner of the company, STA in 100% of the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia and the government in the name of the owner, that is, the state governs all relations with the State. That means twice you've let this company and the employees down. The STA Act in Article 3 provides as follows. The only founder and social STA is the Republic of Slovenia. The company is established for an indefinite period, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, the rights of the partner shall be exercised by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia unless otherwise provided for in this law and otherwise provided for. The third paragraph of this Article states that it is the responsibility of the founder to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of the STA and to provide adequate funding for the full and smooth implementation of the public service on the basis of the annual business plan of the STA. 20. Article 20 of the same law defines that the STA derives funds from the State budget under the annual contract between the founder and the STA, market activities, sponsorship and donor and other resources in accordance with the law and act establishing it. On 29 December 2020, you adopted the respected coalition, approved the Law on Intervention Measures to Help Endear the Consequences of the Second Wave of the Covid-19 Epidemic. Article 66, which was added to the law by an amendment first signed by members of the SMC - Party of the Modern Centre, states: “In spite of article 20 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act”, this is an article which says that a contract must be concluded, I will start again: “in spite of this article 20 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, this law regulates the financing of the public service carried out by the Slovenian Press Agency in accordance with the law.” Notwithstanding this article, regardless of the requirement of the STA Act under the contract, you, a respected coalition, voted in favour of this treaty not being necessary. So if you don't do this, you're breaking the law, and the fact is you have a legal obligation that you don't respect. And funny or perhaps even more ridiculous, it was sad to see the Prime Minister of the Western Balkans stinging and leaning on the heart that they could only be part of a European family if they respected the rule of law and the rule of law. The chronology of the developments related to the Slovenian Press Agency is even more sad. Eleven pages here are the points of what's been going on. I'll just take the lead. On 27 March 2020, according to a few days after the government's performance, Prime Minister Janez Janša announced the concern of international organisations about attacks on journalist Blaž Zgago published a tweet stating that the STA is a fan for fake news. And that's the beginning of the whole story. On 9 July 2020, we observe that at the Ministry of Culture you are preparing a new Act on STA, which, of course, provides for the transfer of the designation of the Supervisory Board of STA from the National Assembly directly to the government. Of course, that would make everything that's going on so much easier for you. On 15 October 2020, after an interview by the Prime Minister with rapper Zlatko, on the day of the meeting, among other things, his meeting with his Hungarian counterpart, the Prime Minister announced a tweet stating that STA is a national disgrace. On 27 November 2020, the first suspension of the financing of the public service by Ukoma takes place. On 14 December 2020, the Committee on Culture shall adopt a decision calling on the Government to establish the financing of the STA within 3 days. Of course you do, because you do not respect the laws, why should you respect the conclusions of the National Assembly? On 24 February 2021, a second establishment of public service funding takes place. The hearing is rejected by the STA’s application for public service payments in January. On 9 March 2021, the Prime Minister calls for the resignation of the Director of the STA and, of course, on Twitter, as we are used to. On 18 March 2021, even the government adopted a decision proposing the discharge of the Director of STA Bojan Veselinović. So much for not involving the government in the economy, because the U.S.A. is d.O. if I know anything. On 8 April 2021, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Matthew Tonin, also announced an entry on the website stating, inter alia, that the Director of STA Bojan Veselinovic must offer his resignation. First, he takes a decision calling on the Supervisory Board to replace it and then invites him, just in case, to offer his resignation. And this is the vice-president of the government. On 12 April 2021, Mr Veselinovic publicly informed the government that it had access to all the STA management books and records. On April 15, 2021, police visit. Why? Because the government had adopted a decision a bad month earlier and proposed to the internal minister a check on the STA. The government, the government, insists that police are investigating certain things. We're on the right track. On 29 April 2021, even the European Commission invites us or tells us that the state can pay state funds for the STA, which includes payment for 2021, at around EUR 2 million. However, the government still does not pay for these funds, even though the law of the CAP 7 makes this clear to it. It must be said that you were probably counting on the European Commission to say that you should not order money, but that public service and what people are doing should be paid. And I can read these readings for about 15 minutes. Unfortunately, we are here today because the Slovenian Press Agency is just before bankruptcy. And dear colleagues, you will be responsible for the bankruptcy of an institution that has been working successfully for 30 years, walking hand in hand with our young beautiful country. You've got all the leverage, and more, you've adopted a law you don't respect. How can people respect their laws if they are not respected by the first class? We're asking people to respect the laws. For you, marriages are something you don't have to respect. I already said yesterday that if everyone in this room agrees that a contract is necessary, the law says no, and no one in this room is above the law. No one in this room is above the law. The Act, which you have adopted in the coalition, clearly provides that the funds of the Slovenian Press Agency shall be transferred irrespective of whether the contract is signed. These are facts, and unfortunately our decision was not adopted on the committee yesterday. Even if it were, I doubt that the result of your work would be any different, but, because of such a work, because of such a way, because of such a rule, people have you enough, they're on the road, they're on the streets and yes, it's a very wrong message that the law only applies to second-class people. You can do whatever you want, according to yours, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a recommendation is at the 42nd emergency session of 7. Ten. 2021 was treated as a parent working body by the Committee on Culture. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to President Violeta Tomić to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. At its 42nd urgent meeting yesterday, the Committee on Culture discussed the proposal for a recommendation on the planned financial exhaustion of the backbone of Slovenian journalism STA by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed mags. Alenko Bratusek. In addition to the representatives of the motion for a recommendation from the Ministry of Culture, the Legal and Legislative Service, UKOM, the president of the Union of Journalists of Slovenia, the Director of the STA resigned, Prof. Marko Milosavljevic and the representative of the legal network for the protection of democracy, Katarina Bervar Sternad. An additional explanation on behalf of the applicant was submitted by the Member of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. In its opening remarks, the 280th day is running, today 281, since the Government of the Slovenian Press Agency left the Slovenian Press Agency with no legal pay for the work done, indicating the sad fact that the Government is ready to destroy an institution that has been working and exists for 30 years. She recalled that the Slovenian Press Agency reported first on developments related to the independence of the Republic of Slovenia 30 years ago. Recently, the President of the Republic awarded even a state award, a credit order that she received for the 30th year of the irreplaceable agency in the Slovenian media area. The government, as the 100 % owner of the company and as the Government, is obliged to pay the public service responsible for the position in which the agency is located. The STA's agony chronology is long and began on 27 March 2020, with the statement by the Prime Minister of the Government that the STA is a fan for false news. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said, inter alia, that if any content is regulated by law, this means that there is an obligation in this regard to the full respect and referral of additional recommendations to the Government, neither necessary nor meaningful. The representative of the Ministry of Culture presented the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the Government calls on the State to launch a public service immediately in accordance with the ZSTAgen, to send an appropriate report to UKOM on the implementation of the public service and to ensure consistent, transparent and appropriate separation of public service activities and market activities, including the clear separation of financial statements. In a long and controversial debate, the opposition stressed that the Government is systematically exhausting the STA and is deliberately weakening it through a deliberate manoeuvre. It's an attempt at discipline and political pressure, and an attempt to take control of the media. We are witnessing a politically motivated attempt to intimidate journalists, pressure on media freedom and open public awareness. The government’s hate for the media reflects hatred of people who do not favor it. The government is in violation of the STA Act, the PKP 7 does not comply with the Supreme Court's judgment, thereby creating a new reality, which is unacceptable. It informs this citizen that there is no need to comply with the laws, as the Government does not comply with them either. Pursuant to the lex specialis lex specialis Act, the Government is obliged to finance the Agency 66. Article PKP 7 provides that the signature of the contract for 2021 is not necessary. All the other excuses for non-funding are misappropriation. As a result, the Agency’s employees are not paid despite the performance of their work, thereby violating labour law and endangering the social security of the staff of the State. They also pointed out the controversial transfer of control from the STA supervisory board to UKOM. On the contrary, SDS Members have warned that public and market activity on the STA has not been adequately separated, indicating the agency's controversial business. The Treaty, which has not yet been signed, brings a number of innovations that will allow for the control of financial transactions. The Director's resignation will ease the other tensions between the Director of STA and UKOM and decide to establish normal communication between the two institutions. Among other things, the Director was asked to sign the contract and thereby resolve the situation of employees. They expressed their support for the actions of the Director of UKOM, as it is his duty to verify which services are paid from the budget in the context of public service payments and to remedy the irregularity of double payment. THE STA must have a price list for their services which cannot be assessed flat-rately. Among other things, it was said that there is no objective reporting in the country, as certain information does not reach people, that family values are under-emphasized and that STA was abducted by a deep country. The Committee then voted on this point of the proposal and, by 9 votes to none, adopted it. Thus, the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation concerning the planned financial exhaustion of the backbone of Slovenian journalism STA by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the home working body has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u5	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Ignacija Friedl Jarc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u6	Dear President, hello! Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia states that the financing of the public service of the STA is governed by Article 20 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act and Article 66 of the Law on Intervention Measures to Help Endure the Consequences of the Second Wave of the Covid-19 Epidemic, and in more detail by the Regulation on the Management of the Public Service of the Slovenian Press Agency, which regulated certain issues that have proved inconsistent in the course of the execution of the public service of the STA in the past or have been the subject of different interpretations of the parties. The Government has, inter alia, issued a regulation with a view to providing an explicit legal basis or mandate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to communicate for the payment of the public service funds of the State. This legal basis, although in recent years it has been the annual annual contract between UK and STA, has not expressed interest in the conclusion of the contract for 2021, despite numerous calls by UKOM. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Regulation, the STA and the Government conclude an annual contract on the basis of the data shown in the annual business plan of the STA. The Director of UKOM shall be authorised to prepare the signature and implementation of the contract. The STA shall report to the UK on the implementation of the business plan every three months. In the annual contract, a fixed annual amount of public service compensation shall be paid monthly in the light of the level of public service rendered in the previous year. is the basis for the monthly payment to be accompanied by a report on the volume of the public service performed within a month in accordance with the particular content of the public service referred to in Article 4 of the STA Act. [[Incomprehensible]] In view of the above, the Government calls on the State to send an adequate report on the implementation of the public service to Ukom, for the first time, without delay, in accordance with Article 6 of the Act on the STA and Article 7 of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022, and for the third time, in accordance with Article 6 of the Act on the STA and Article 7 of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022, to ensure that the activities of the public service and market activities are consistently transparent and properly separated, including the clear separation of accounts, or to ensure separate accounting monitoring of activities based on objectively defined courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Today, the Nobel Peace Prize winners are Filipino journalists and Russian journalists. In short, both recipients are journalists. Of course, it's the effort to free the media and democracy. This is just proof of more how important they are to society's independence, respect, democraticism and the obvious threat to media independence and freedom around the world as well as in Slovenia. Today it is also 281 days since the STA did not receive payment for the public service. Janez Janša started the planned demolition of the STA on 27 March last year when he named the Slovenian Press Agency as a fan for false news. His attack with the ultimate goal of total grading has not yet ended. It is not easy to start, respected, by explaining that the National Assembly, as a legislative body, as the highest authority of the executive branch, nevertheless calls on the Government to respect the laws. In other words, honourable speakers of today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly are like opposition Members and Members, who play our constitutional and specific role, forced government and coalition majority, respected, to warn that it respects two specific articles of the law. One of the two adopted, with respect, on the proposal of the SMC Group, which is part of the government coalition. This call includes respect for the Supreme Court's judgment and taking into account the warnings of the European Commission, the EU's highest executive body, which, even more bizarrely, is presided over by the Republic of Slovenia. As if it is not entirely unacceptable in itself that the National Assembly must call on the Government to respect, implement the laws of the State which has been temporarily left to it to manage. We must therefore recommend to the coalition, with the extraordinary session of this assembly, that it respects at least its own commitments and the articles they have put into anti-Korona laws themselves? The situation in the country is, therefore, most testimony to the fact that the ruling majority in the National Assembly today are proposing to its government majority to respect and enforce the legal and constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia - which all members and members of the same government swore to, unfortunately, with a fig in their pocket. Stopping the financing of STA by the government is understood as a direct attack on STA and quality journalism. Despite the fact that the law requires the Government to ensure that the Slovenian Press Agency is financed and that the Slovenian Press Agency continues to exist, and to respect the two laws which, as the court also ruled, obliges the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we must therefore call on you to respect your own adopted laws. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The STA is an aorta of the Slovenian media environment and feeds it daily with hundreds of news and at the same time a key state infrastructure for communication, including with foreign public. It is a complex body of interconnected functions that has developed for 30 years. The ideas about the own agency, however, date back to a later period before the independence. Therefore, respectable, it is unacceptable that in its mature phase, the STA must have more than one million news, photographs and sound recordings, and it is designed as a well-functioning institution with professional reputation at home and in the international environment, to face unacceptable and unacceptable pressures and unjustified, even illegal financial exhaustion and neglect by representatives of our country. And that's the country that helped create it. We have reached a point where the government's non-execution of laws adopted by the National Assembly directly threatens the future of the STA and interferes with the provision of quality and independent information. This is the only thing that is threatened by the suspension of the Government of Slovenia's obligation to act. STA is an important partner, including Slovenian science and journalism. It has a model system for providing editorial and journalistic autonomy, and it carries out outreach activities to verify facts and promote media literacy. They also make an important contribution in their work to the achievement of the fundamental development objectives of our country, the Republic of Slovenia, whether it is foreign policy objectives or to ensuring equitable regional development, which we consider particularly important in the SD to ensure equal opportunities throughout the country. Social Democrats are therefore, through today's proposal for a recommendation, calling again on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the representative of this country, the founder of the Slovenian Press Agency, to ensure, in accordance with the STA Act, that the 7th package to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, as well as several calls from domestic, international, international, international associations, the European Commission and ultimately the courts, to ensure, without delay, adequate funding for the full and smooth implementation of the public service and respect institutional autonomy and editorial independence. With specialized editorials, the network of correspondents in Brussels, Zagreb, New York and all Slovenian regions of the STA provides visibility to events outside the capital, which would likely remain overlooked. At the same time, she is the leading Slovenian daily information service in the English language and partner of all major foreign agencies. Its international contracting authorities are also embassies and foreign and domestic companies. Fear and discomfort, respectable, and governments from the credible work of the Slovenian journalist's spine cause frenzy both on public RTV and on STA. In fact, it is an extremely worrying trend in government behaviour towards the entire media landscape in our country, which demands all our attention and concern, regardless of who is in the opposition and who is in the coalition. And no, Your Honor, there is no reason for optimism. Once the STA is quiet, there will be an announcing silence that the democratic state cannot afford if it is even a country that is at the forefront of the interests of its citizens and which is not prepared to give up its sovereignty in the field of information and media. Or as someone else would say, the order is the order, the law is the law. This should also apply to the government of John Janša. Sometimes things are simple and simple. Today, we will decide whether the government respects the laws or whether the government of Janez Janša is a group of first-class people who are allowed to destroy the institutions of this country, the common country, and, by humans, to sprinkle tear gas and to stir up hate speech. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The intimate choice of Social Democrats is the rule of law. It's a democracy and it's respect for laws. We hope that yearning for such a Slovenia on the right side of this National Assembly has not yet completely died. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, President. Yesterday, in a six-hour debate, we tried to tell coalition Members that the non-financing of the Slovenian Press Agency by the State was unacceptable, as well as the rematching and interference with editorial policy. This has been told several times by representatives of the European institutions to their President and the current Prime Minister of the Government, last but two days ago by Ursula von der Leyen at the meeting of the European countries in Brdo. It's all for nothing. For John Janshoe, all that cannot be subdued is to be destroyed. The event reached a hot spot on the last day of September when Bojan Veselinović resigned from the position of Director of STA. As he himself explained, he will not participate in the beating of journalistic autonomy. In addition, the President of the Republic, Borut Pahor, mediated an unsuccessful mediation on the public service contract in 2021 during the lead of the STA and Director Ukom, Uroši Urbanija. It's all for nothing. The financing block is still present, despite the fact that the Supreme Court has confirmed that monthly public service payments are the statutory duty of the State. The State is obliged to provide funds irrespective of the contract required by the State to Ukuk, which contains some unacceptable conditions for the journalistic work. Even if the annual contract for 2021 is not concluded, public services shall be paid in accordance with the 7th Anti-Corona Law. The founder is obliged to finance the public service of STA in accordance with the company’s business plan. Pursuant to the STA Act, the only founder and partner of the STA Republic of Slovenia is the STA and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia exercises the rights of the STA on its behalf. In accordance with Article 3 of that Act, the latter must ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence and adequate funding for the full and smooth implementation of the public service on the basis of the annual business plan of the State. In accordance with Article 20 of the Law, this public service operation shall be financed from the State budget provided by the Agency to the Ukuk. In addition to ignoring its obligations under the basic act on the STA, the Government has not taken into account another law adopted at the end of December 2020, the seventh anti-Korona law, for nine months. In accordance with Article 66 of the Act, the founder was ordered to settle all outstanding public service obligations for 2020 within seven days of the entry into force of the State budget law and to provide the Agency with budgetary resources for the public service, irrespective of whether or not a contract with the State will be concluded with the State in 2021. That didn't happen. However, what is happening is the search for ever-new causes for the exhaustion of the STA, the new conditions, the caprice of Director Ukoma, and the correspondence with Brussels, where the Government has checked with the European Commission whether such funding is in line with the State aid rules at all times, thus attempting to delay and avoid payment. The fact that this is a so-called care for budgetary resources is unacceptable, since on the other hand Urbania has employed a whole bunch of Nova24 personnel, spent as much as €250,000 to work through student travel, has allocated as much as €12,000 to her co-worker, Mrs Dangubič, etc. In short, the duality of the director, like all who are involved in this story, is infinite. Journalists work without pay, and so on, hundreds of families live and live because of the sadism of this government. This government that has a mouthful of family values. The UKOM also unjustifiably requested certain documentation from the State, such as market activity data. The STA was explained that the data are always available to the Government as the sole members of the STA. In May 2021, the Director of UKOM was criminally incriminated by the legal network, which, inter alia, reported to him that he had used his position, crossed the borders of official rights and failed to perform his official duties, and I should remind you that Mr Urbania was once employed by the STA and that it is to a large extent obvious that it is for personal offenses and revenge on the former employer. In order to preserve the STA, journalists even launched a charity campaign for survival. As Slovenia's Presidency approached the Council of Europe, the full halt in public service funding was given new dimensions. In June 2021, the Government presented a draft regulation on the performance of the public service of the STA, which was intended to resolve the dispute over the implementation of contractual obligations between the UKO and the STA and, in fact, the opposite happened. For example, the Regulation provided for a way of calculating the compensation for the public service, identifying which market services the STA can perform and determine the control over the STA by UKOM. Many of the provisions, the regulations were in considerable disharmony with the umbrella act on the STA. The Director of STA Veselinovic responded to the draft regulation by warning that its content is not in accordance with the Constitution and not the law defining the financing of the STA. The regulations were also opposed in the Slovenian press union and in the company of journalists of Slovenia, where they assessed that the regulation interfered with the editorial and management autonomy of the STA and that conditionality on the payment of the public service of the STA by increasing the supervision of the Director of UKOM over the operation of the STA constitutes ordinary blackmail. The European Commission also responded to the regulation with renewed concern about attempts to undermine the sustainable financing and independence of the Slovenian National Press Agency. At the meeting, we drew attention to the dangerous fact that the failure to respect laws, constitutions and judicial decisions by the State and its institutions is a dangerous precedent that gives very wrong signals to citizens and citizens of Slovenia. In short, what is happening is simply unacceptable and unimaginable in a democratic society, which obviously we are no longer, at least since the performance of the government of Janez Janša two years ago. Hate speech, insults and attacks on everyone who is not theirs, censoring independent institutions, disrespect for laws, arrogance, undignified behaviour of government representatives, disrespect for the National Assembly and members of the opposition, ignoring the judgments of the courts and calls of international institutions, spreading intolerance and hatred, fabricating facts, rulings, ignoring professions and laws have been metastasized in Slovenia and are the cause of people's massive intrusion into the streets, and they are awaited only by violence, tear gas and water cannons. It is now clear to everyone that any reasonable argument comes across the deaf ears of the authorities who have used the coronaryism to subjugate the country and fill the pockets of their fellow thinkers. The government, which, because of the alleged sins of our grandfathers, destroys the future of our grandchildren, does not have public support and the government has no credibility with repression, so the only solution for Slovenia is its resignation and early elections. The damage that's been done, and we're going to save decades, but we have no other way, and the madness is out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. An extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is devoted to the issue of financing or cooperation between the STA and the Government. The Office of the Government for Communication and STA sent a proposal for a contract this year. The Treaty is already the second one prepared by Ukom for the STA and is more appropriate and takes into account the comments made by the STA on the first contract. But the STA refused to sign the second contract, although they were supposed to agree with its content. If we compare the contract concluded for 2020 and the proposal for a contract that could have been concluded for 2021 between the State and Ukom, we can find that the updates are logical and meaningful. The reference to subordination of the STA and the reduction of independence is a weak manoeuvre to divert public attention from content. Today's speakers are also deceiving in their reference to the fact that it is for employees, I quote: “The most unacceptable starting point in which Ukom would review the summaries of the news and assess their content and, on the basis of this arbitrary approach, measure the amount of the payment.” End of quote. If we read the contract that STA was offered for signature, we can't find it anywhere. The same message was transmitted by a member of the SAB at the press conference of the candidates for the extraordinary meeting, who, contrary to the statements made by the meeting, used the words: "This is what I was told," apparently acting on the principle of saying, she said. The new draft contract, which the Director of the STA did not wish to sign, included costs which were borne by Director Veselinović himself. Compared to the funding for 2020, the SOA financing contract for 2021 is estimated at up to 50 000 euros, up to a maximum of 2 million EUR 28 000. One of the key differences between this year's draft and last year's contracts is that Ukuk STA will pay work at a price, which is also part of the contract and not over time, as has been the case in previous years. For example, for 2020, Ukom STA paid EUR 978 000, or EUR 164 000 833.33 per month, without defining the price list of individual products. However, public service is also more clearly defined. However, the news paid from public service funds must not be marketed for one year and then offered to the market as archival material, but must also count the revenue from this among the revenue of the public service. The Treaty also requires that the news from the public service be clearly separated from the content marketed by STA as its commercial activity. The Treaty also provides that Ukom STA will pay an advance of EUR 845 000 for the public service from January to May this year, 3 days after all those conditions have been met which require Ukom to be given access to business process data, free access to public service content, a clear separation of commercial and public content and the creation of a special section for Slovenians in place and around the world and an indigenous national minority and will sign a public service contract in 2021. Most of the pre-existing requirements have already been met and are separated by more or less only by the signature of the contract. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we respect the work of all journalists, including journalists of the STA. I would like to point out here that the Ministers of New Slovenia, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have concluded a special contract which allows for further cooperation with the State. This is proof that we do not care about the fate of journalists, but we want contracts to be concluded, both on the one hand and on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u14	Dear Members, the esteemed choir! It was written in 1991, and the Slovenian Press Agency was born at the time of Slovenia just before its independence. Even before the declaration of independence, the founders of the STA were aware of the importance of credible information for the young country, and so on 24 May 1991 the Treaty establishing the STA was signed. 5 days before the announcement of the independent state, i.e. on 20 June 1991, the STA published the first news informing the domestic and foreign public of its mission, namely, the simultaneous and rapid information of foreign media and institutions, developments in Slovenia and the simultaneous development of information, for the purposes of domestic media. The first news of the STA, published 5 days before the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, was also understood as a prediction of the information sovereignty of our country. THE beginnings of the SOLA during the self - conquest war were modest but demanding. In time, however, the agency is developing into a modern media service whose gold rule is independent, objective, credible and fast information based on facts and sources. Today it is written in 2021, the year in which STA completed its 30th anniversary and is just before the financial break. On the verge of survival is the backbone of Slovenian journalism, which in the 1930s created over 2 and a half million news and other content, in Slovenian and more than 270 thousand in English. They published 1 million photographs, more than 15,000 videos, and more than 130 thousand tons of footage. All of this is a rich heritage of STA. I stress that the STA is a public-interest media house, but, as of today, it is 281st day in line to perform the public service without paying for it. For more than 9 months, the public service is free of charge. It is a shame that the government continues to move forward and destroys the pillar of the state's communication sovereignty in front of our eyes. STA are people who don't get paid for their work. On the other hand, we have a part of the policy that, with various contracts and regulations, is trying to destroy what the STA Act provides for the Agency. The Government makes payments to the public service of the STA conditional, as if we Members were paid according to the number of hours, minutes, in the debates, the number of questions raised by the Members and everything else, and so on. That is exactly how the last contract between the STA and UKOM was presented to us by some employees at the STA, or, as Mr Bojan Veselinović said at the time of the resignation, I quote, “UCOM's contract would forcefully change the successful business model of the STA.” The current Government, in the case of the STA, does not respect the National Assembly, does not respect the legislative branch of the Authority and has deliberately violated Article 20 of the Act on STA and PKP-7 for more than 9 months. In Article 66, the seventh against the Crown Package, adopted in December in this National Assembly, expressly commands the Government to provide the State with funds for the public service, whether or not it has concluded a contract with the founder. The Supreme Court has also decided unequivocally that the State is obliged to pay monthly for the public service of the STA without the existence of a contract. Nevertheless, the Government and UKOM are scolding and ignoring the Supreme Court's decision. Let me add that the ruling authority, due to the statutory limitations of the STA, cannot subdue it, but it can destroy it and it does so, because the relationship of the largest coalition party to the media is well known to all. Gradually acquiring public media and simultaneously building a parallel, government-friendly media empire. The government is longing for political control of media content and is striving to create an organised system of fake news in its favor. The president of the government is charging with foreign media and local journalists and trying to get the heart of the press, the truth. But the truth cannot and must not be owned by anyone. In the SAB Group, we ask the Government to respect the laws and within three days to provide funding for the public service of the State. That's enough. Stop blackmailing and starving innocent people. The people have enough of you, and so do I.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u15	Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u16	A bad year ago, an attack on the Slovenian Press Agency was launched, which said colleague Rajić on the committee yesterday, in our opinion, is not even less innocent or conditional on some of the whims of his key stakeholders. In the course of the military operation, the planned weakening manoeuvre of the Slovenian Press Agency has been stepped up step by step with the ultimate goal of its final destruction or, as they say, in an economy that can be closer to the enemy by setting client loyal personnel to all key functions. Part of the wider war with independent media is visible and heard. As part of the planned propaganda operation, the main objective of which was to convince its own believers in particular, there have been complaints at the expense of the State and still appear to report misleadingly on the Government's work and to support or even encourage anti-government protests and that the country's bad epidemiological situation is being blamed by the central media. This could also be called a diversion of attention from the bad decisions of this government, but the result is that the ruling Slovenian Press Agency has become a thorn in the fifth personal offenses of representatives of the current ruling clicks even further back. What is happening in the last year with regard to the STA is a national disgrace. The entire agency, together with its employees, has become a hostage of some political self-sufficient people who do not understand in the spirit of their impersonal personality that the law and the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law are over them. Their authoritarian mind to media institutions that are not subordinate to it obviously does not recognise the right to survival. In this mental context, journalists must become lacquers and if they do not need to be discredited and destroyed. The exact same methods as for other independent institutions in Slovenia, therefore. This government was more prepared to bankrupt the Slovenian Press Agency than to tolerate professional journalism, which is not written according to its direction, until the Director's resignation. In doing so, she was, of course, excited about the provisions of the laws, the positions of the European authorities, and the Supreme Court's judgment. The legal basis for the financing of STA is provided by two laws: the Slovenian Press Agency Act and Article 66 PKP 7. The decision of the Supreme Court regarding the financing of the STA is clear and incomprehensible. The Republic of Slovenia is legally obliged to provide funding for 2021 monthly in accordance with the business plan adopted. The Supreme Court, in its reasoning for the judgment, underlines in particular that the financing of the public service under the STA Act is required to ensure its founder - without additional regulations and without contracts, which served only to prolong the agony of the Agency. The legal basis for payment is already the law on the STA special for 2021, as well as the seventh anti-Korona law, which is a message from the Supreme Court. Therefore, Mr Urbanija's statements in Trump's style regarding this judgment are depressed and even false. And that is exactly what the Prime Minister's assessment is that the judgment is in his best interest. It's not. Today we can recognize the weight of our last year's insistence, some would call it the stubbornness, even as members of another parliamentary group, that the seventh anti-Korona law also introduces an amendment today, Article 66, with a content relating to the STA. This provision, then the last-minute amendment, in a hurry on my desk, is today the merifuge basis for the Supreme Court's judgment and probably for all coming. The Supreme Court points out that the contract for 2021 has indeed not been concluded, but this is not essential. Since it is precisely the seventh anti-Korona Act that the funds for 2021 are provided, whether or not the contract has been concluded. The Prime Minister's statement that the STA will be paid when the Director signs the contract because the law so provides is a lie. Recently, the Prime Minister has deliberately lied to the domestic and international public, as well as to the European political summit. We can ask ourselves who believes him at all, especially in the light of the reaction of European Commission President von der Leynov. But it is likely that his words were intended only for his political believers and that the position of Slovenia in the international community is of little concern to the Prime Minister. As the epidemic has shown, in order to achieve its own aims, it is not only to respect the rights of people in Slovenia. The Slovenian Press Agency is an institution directly linked to the independence of the State. This should be understood by the Prime Minister, who on the outside likes to be a passionate patriot. But this agency was created at a time when politics was committed to finding consensus and to the principles of decency, and these times have long passed for this President. Due to the pathological political personality, we are today collecting donations for the survival of the Slovenian Press Agency. Really tragic and absurd, but very different from what the Prime Minister meant. STA is part of the common good and works in the public interest. While the call for an immediate cessation of disregard for the law is now needed at a symbolic level, there is obviously no need for this government. Therefore, fellow Members who support this government as an official or informal part of the coalition would call for: think about what you are doing. Get real. This term of office shall expire.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u18	Respectable. All media are politically defined and do not report objectively. It all depends on who's in charge. Everyone wants to own journalists to write as much as possible about their work. As a result of this way of action, the public is not specifically aware of the events or political situation in the country. Due to the lack of research work, reliable information is simply not available. Very few journalists work abroad or report abroad. We note that Slovenian journalists are doing a summary of foreign agencies or media. From abroad we get only those publications written by others, but local editors create them in their own way. Finally, in this assembly of parliament, we also observe that journalists exclude political parties. Here I am thinking mainly of the Slovenian National Party, because to this day we cannot be defined either on the left or on the right. I can tell you that I personally tell everyone when he asks me which side we're on, I say we're independent. Also in the publications of the STA for 2021 it is clear that we are not mentioned much. We're in the last place, respectable colleagues and colleagues. According to the current regulation, the media are in no way responsible to the public for what they do, even though they are supposed to serve the public's interests. The media has great social power because they have the ability to influence people's behavior and thinking. The physiological question is, who does the media answer to? No one. Finally, this Parliament is also composed of its own surveys, and this should not be the case. So, public opinion media actively generates themselves. Slovenia is a sovereign state and it is therefore totally incomprehensible that the EU Commission is being consulted by the EU leadership. This is a state matter that needs to be settled at the state level. However, we do not understand why it is a problem to draw up a report on the operation, as far as the one who finances you asks for it. However, because they are financed from the budget, it would also be right to find out how many crowns of the allowance were also received by journalists who are on the ground and how much they received who worked only in offices. And, of course, to the director. Finally, I would add that it is very sad that we have 90 employees in the U.S.A., 70% of journalists get salaries around €800 net. That's not what we're talking about, not the principal's salary. But all we talk about is his resignation. It's no wonder the press is going somewhere else. But it's true that they still get a salary every 15 months. I got this information from five different journalists, a respected colleague and a colleague. And it's not true they don't get what we've been listening to in here. It is also true that the government has not directed money to the agency for 280 days. That's another question, but they get paid. And I ask you not to deceive citizens that STA did not get paid, as we heard yesterday on the committee and also today by one of the candidates. In order for you all to understand, the press has been paid and also given leadership. Once again, what should be a politically independent agency. Apparently, some people here don't understand or understand. And if I go back to the table you can see exactly who the proposer is and how many times they were published in 2021 on the STA pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u20	Perhaps it would be appropriate for the Committee on Culture to be renamed the Committee on Non-Culturality, since Members and Members of the SDS, the Secretary of State and Director of Ukoma by opposition Members have been given insults and humiliations, to which Violet Tomić, president of the Committee, did not react. Before I go on the subject, I strongly condemn what happened at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Culture, and since you will not read about it in the report, it is only right to summarize some statements. The president said that Director Ukoma was tired of the committee when he spoke about the infringements of the STA and the double financing of contributions and the reasons why the funds had not yet been paid. She said we're dating journalists and living in our own world. Natasa Sukič said that we are introducing a verbal delicacy, that we are a sect, that we are in a chamber, that we are a sect has repeated several times, and that there are other discussers behind it. She said that we wanted to beat them, that we had religious feelings for the president of our party, and that our faith was the only right one. At the protests, as you know, she saw Hungarian police officers. Perhaps this enables her to communicate with her late mother, about which he was willing to contribute to the Council of 24 and to the magazine for the paranormal Mysteries. I'm just summarizing what can be read online. Lydia Divac Mirnk told the director of Urbania that he was no one, that he was an aparacian, and that kind of thing. Marko Bandelli told the Secretary of State that she was not competent because she had never worked in the private sector and was not professional. New24 journalists were marked by TV for writing village adverts. He was also offensive to Franz Duck, who explained that we do not have a laundromat state, but a country that is a prisoner of the sect, that we cannot logically think that we have a short- and medium-term memory worse than a goldfish. He asked us if we were hoping in the public with a bag on our head to hang our laundry. He said that the operation of this government and the government coalition would obviously have to lead to the so-called English script where the MP was stabbed, which could be understood as a covert call for such an action. After the President, in the middle of presenting her views and responding to her allegations, took away the word of Director Ukom, Uros Urbani, he was the only one who left and then accused him of escaping from the meeting. It made no sense that even if he had not been able to respond to the flat-rate allegations and accusations made by the applicants in the request for a sitting. Inadequate markings and insults were also received by the leader of the SMC Group of Ambassadors. In the SDS Group, we are strongly protesting this way of communication. Apparently, the opposition Members gave up all the stops and left behind what they had learned about proper behaviour. As a result, we have repeatedly protested with the President of the National Assembly, but the situation is always worse and worse. I was first elected in 2004, and I don't remember anything like that. With members of the Left in the National Assembly, the level of communication has come down to the lowest possible level, despite the acceptance of the ethnic codec. In the SDS Group, we will therefore consider whether we will continue to participate in a non-cultural committee as was the Committee on Culture of yesterday. Now, here's to the DA. It is clearly necessary to say that the problems with the financing of STA would have been resolved long ago if its former Director Veselinovic had so wished. Director Bojan Veselinovich is exercising his will and opposition to the Government, which he clearly does not like. Over the past year, there have been quite a few opportunities to resolve the dispute and clarify whether there has been a double funding or other media co-financed, such as a diary and the like, but Director Veseninovic did not want to do so. The financing of the public service of the Slovenian Press Agency is governed by Article 20 of the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency and Article 66 of the Law on Intervention Measures to Endorses the Consequences of the Second Wave of the COVID-19 Epidemic, and in more detail the Regulation on the Management of the Public Service of the Slovenian Press Agency, which has dealt with certain issues that have been identified by the Government in the course of the execution of the public service of the STA in the past, proved inconsistent or have been subject to different interpretations of the Contracting Parties. We discussed this several times at various sessions when we discussed this topic. Although the provision of resources for the work of the STA has taken place all the years before, the contract with the Uk has been concluded, it has been pointed out in the last year that Ukuk is not the one who may require from the Director of the STA anything that Ukuk is not the Government and therefore the STA has no relationship with Uk and so on. Therefore, the Government has issued a regulation with a view to providing an explicit legal basis or mandate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to communicate for the payment of the public service funds of the State. This legal basis in recent years, as I have already said, was the annual annual contract between Ukko and STA, but STA, despite many calls by Ukoma, has not expressed any interest in concluding the contract for 2021. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Regulation, the STA and the Government shall conclude an annual contract on the basis of the data shown in the annual business plan of the STA. The Director of Ukoma shall be authorised to prepare, sign and implement the contract. The STA shall report three months to the Ukoma on the implementation of the business plan. In the annual contract, a fixed annual amount of public service compensation shall be paid monthly in the light of the level of public service rendered in the previous month. The Charter, which is the basis for the monthly payment, must be accompanied by a report on the scope of the public service, public service services per month, in accordance with the particular content of the public service referred to in Article 4 of the STA Act. The STA or Director of Veselinovic filed an action for the abolition of the regulation and a motion for its retention. The administrative court held back the enforcement of the regulation, which stopped the problem from being solved. Subsequently, the Supreme Court abolished the suspension of the regulation and stated that, by implementing the regulation, the position of the party, i.e. the STA, could be improved to a greater extent, since the defendant would not have been a party, so the Government would have begun to pay compensation for the public service performed in 2021 on its basis. The Supreme Court also stated that the regulation constitutes a legal act contributing to clarifying the open issues between the Uka and the STA, which were governed by each public service contract. In the past year, teach as the custodian of the STA budget item identified a number of errors in the performance of the public service to be performed by the STA. Public and market shares were not clearly separated. The same services were double charged, paid once by the State and then by users. The funds from the STA to other media, such as Dnevnik, where Director Veseninović was once employed. Loading news and summaries and photographs that should be free of charge for users. disproportionate prices were set when 16 euros were charged for one paragraph and 13 euros for 3 or 4 paragraphs. The STA Act refers to the provision of adequate funding. How, though, can you determine what is appropriate funding? To see what has been done or done in the past. Appropriate financing shall be subject to a contract which also defines the method of financing. For the opposition says that they should do so on the basis of the STA business plan. And if we put in a business plan to suddenly need 10 million euros, not just 2 more, we should just pay for it because they said so? No, we need to see what they're doing for this money. By the way, the SO in the business plan states that Plan 2021 should show that it requires at least EUR 2.28 million for the public service to operate at 2020 level. Let me remind you that on such an inconsequential plan, the contract was signed for 2020 as well, and within a month, an annex signed that increased the funds by 100,000 euros. The opposition proposes to settle the relationship without a contract, as this was adopted in the CAP 7. How, then, should the level of funding be determined? When and how much is indicated? What is considered to be the starting point? How will public service funding be ensured? How will it be controlled if the public service is carried out in accordance with the law? There are no answers to all of this. The discipline cannot finance something without clear rules, otherwise it would violate the Public Finance Act. As a direct budgetary user, the funds he has in his account must act legally, intentionally, responsibly and economically. The Public Finance Act provides that any expenditure from the underlying budget must have a credible accounting instrument, which shows an obligation arising from a credible bookkeeping instrument and must be verified before payment of the legal basis and the level of the obligation. Therefore, in the SDS Group at the meeting of the Committee, we did not support the proposal for a recommendation concerning the planned exhaustion of the backbone of Slovenian journalism of the STA by the Government of RS, which was written by the proponents, as we estimate that it is not a matter of exhaustion, but of the concern that budgetary resources are spent in accordance with the law and the implementation of the public service. No owner of the company would pay for the services without checking whether the work was actually carried out correctly and in full.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Procedurally, yes. Comrade Bandelli, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u22	Now, Madam President, I would really like you to inform your colleague here that there is a debate out of some of the mouths that she has just spoken. And, I think he's coming here to cry, after all the insults in his previous cultural session, when I'm the minister in front of everyone, that I'm an idiot, a bastard and a monk. In front of everyone. Shame on him. I was waiting for him to apologize. And then, the secretary of state gets angry and gets angry and cries and goes out because I asked her if she ever worked in the public sector. Where are we? What are we normal about, President? This one comes in here crying on the counter because we said this or I don't know why, something else that was that Mirnikov said or I don't know what, and he insults me personally. And I didn't report it, I didn't say anything, I was just waiting for the minister to apologize. But an apology in SDS is a word they don't know. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u23	Comrade Bandelli, it wasn't exactly a procedural proposal, but I understood your message and I must say I agree with it. But, you know, it's a habit that when someone represents the position of their delegation group, we don't fall into words. However, I agree and may respond, given that I myself have been mentioned in relation to what happened yesterday on the Committee on Culture. I can explain my powers in this regard. You know I don't have them in accordance with the rules of procedure. I can't have any effect on this in the way the committees are run. I have to say on the boards that leadership is quite bad, and I think it's worse than it was in the previous term. And I also agree that, in fact, the representatives of the SDS are not the most credible in calling on others to take care of their speech. [[applause in the hall]] Look, just one thing. I was warned that during the course of this meeting, colleague Škrinjar tweeted something about colleague Natasha Sukič. That it's a man I wouldn't hope to meet even in front of a bakery. I think that's extremely unacceptable. And I'm asking you to do your job here. And don't tweet this moment. [[applause in the hall]] Then don't you dare ask your colleagues to discuss it. Procedural proposal, colleague Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u24	Madam President, perhaps it would not be too much to remind fellow Jeraj, although the views are something we do not interfere with, that, however, when she performs as Alice Jeraj, rather than as a nether, she acts as a member of the National Assembly. That it's not a Twitter sphere where you hide the pseudonyms of the nettle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u25	I think she was acting like Alenka Jeraj. I think we told each other what was to be said. I hope that the discussion below will be correct and that we will stick to the agenda, right? So I believe that everyone has told them everything, probably on Twitter. Does anyone else want a procedural proposal when we're already on procedural proposals? My colleague Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u26	I would just like to point out that I highlighted the insults that were said yesterday, and I quoted them. But if you're having a hard time listening to what you said yesterday, that's your problem, not mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Brane Golubović has the floor to present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Is anyone today ashamed of our temple of democracy – a long time ago we can say it with pride – does most say “what”? Why do I ask that? Because the government coalition rejected yesterday the proposal that the government comply with the provisions of the PKP-7 and the STA Act and thereby prevented the Slovenian Press Agency from obtaining funds. Thus, these two laws speak of the need for the Government to provide funds for the public service of the STA. And let me give you an additional translation of the well-respected government coalition. You voted against stopping the financial exhaustion of the STA, against respect for the laws, not just those two, all the laws. You voted against respect for the legislation in force and against the rule of law. You actually voted against the Constitution. If I say otherwise, you think that the government doesn't have to respect the laws, not just these two, but all of them. You obviously believe that the government can arbitral choice, whose laws it will respect and whose laws it will not respect, what it is obliged to realize and what it does not. What you are doing in the government coalition is at least smurfing law, is legal hooliganism, is exhaustion public, I stress for some who do not understand this, public, not state, but even less government-run Slovenian press agencies. You deny the laws, the law, the courts. Our claim also confirms that the articles on the financing of the public service of STA have clearly been interpreted only by the Supreme Court. It has been quite understandable for children to understand that the Government of the Slovenian Press Agency is obliged to pay compensation for the public service performed, since the legal basis for payment is already the STA Law itself and especially for 2021, 66th Article PKP-7. Pika, there's nothing to add here, there's no dilemma here, everything should be clear, everyone, including you, in the government coalition. But you have a directive that you follow shamelessly. Someone would say again, "so what" and in the government coalition you think, but what, you think, we are power, power is our property, and people are obliged to listen to us, obey us, believe everything we say, otherwise they are being punished, even contaminated. Another hundred or a thousand judgments could be written by the courts. Minister Tonin could continue, instead of protesting, to urge people to turn to the courts if anything is wrong and, the government would continue to ignore the judgments. The courts, including the Supreme Court, can decide a hundred more times and, for the Government, there is no, for you, the government coalition, neither. Above you, the government coalition, there is no blue sky, you are the blue sky. Are you really not ashamed? Let's just say you're synonymous with the shameless violation of the rule of law and the beating of the rule of law. I suggest, all of us, that we turn on a little imagination and imagine, especially you, in the government coalition, that everyone should do the same as the Government. Imagine a Slovenia in which each individual decides whether or not to comply with a legal provision. Can you imagine what that means? Let's just say no one would pay taxes anymore because the President of the Government does not want to pay to the President of the Republic, Members. Let's say that one of the entrepreneurs is not satisfied with our work, he does not want to wait for the elections, but he wants government officials who should manage this country, not harm it, sign the treaty and insist that he does not pay taxes until he signs a contract with the President of the Republic, the President of the Government and the government ministers, with only one provision in this treaty, to respect the constitutional order, to act in his conscience and to work with all his strength for the well-being of Slovenia, 140th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, let's just say that no one would respect your decisions, which, in any case, fall within the Constitutional Court of Justice, or let's say that people like the Government would only benefit from rights and not duty and that in all areas. Can we imagine a country we're driving to, and who's driving this train? You demand unconditional compliance with the rules, legal restrictions and prohibitions, you take measures that do not have professional grounds, you restrict people, you corner them, you force them into vaccination, you scare them, you fine them, you rub them, you make fun of them, you confiscate them, and you might even list them. You make fun of people. And in the end, I hear you're still proud of how strong we are. Yes, then this government is surprised that protests are taking place, it is surprised that it has lost confidence, legitimacy in the public. Surprisingly, there are also people who deny the existence of the virus. It is surprising that people do not believe in PCT, but it has been setting an example for people for a year and a half. The government and you government coalition are the generator of everything bad that happens in our country and also all protests, Wednesdays, Fridays, Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays. People protest every day, and you're not ashamed, but you're not ashamed, but you're ashamed of someone only when they have a little conscience. In LMŠ, we will not give up on this situation, we will continue to fight to respect the Constitution and laws in this country and to provide funds under the Act on the STA and Article 66 of the PKP7 in a specific case for the public service of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The word has Joseph Lenart to prepare Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially the guests from the Ministry. Today we have an extraordinary meeting where the alleged financial exhaustion of the STA by UKOM or the Government as the contracting authority of the public service is considered. Respected opposition, resourceful, incredible or imagined are these demands and recommendations to the government, but this is certainly not a matter of intentional exhaustion. The government is seeing an end to media freedom and interference with autonomy, and that is not true. Earlier, it could be said that it is the will of a former director who does not accept superior authority, perhaps it is his planned self-destruction of the STA that leads. Well, now to the debate on this resignation of Director Veselinovic. There was a lot of crying on the Committee on Culture yesterday, and it will also be for one director of a public institution today, but for a long time he did not want to sign a contract between the STA as a contractor and a contracting authority and a government payer. Well, what about now one director resigns and then most in tears, in the opposition, is that former director Veselinovič actually was only the director and if he does not resign them daily in Slovenia for at least 10 reasons, it is as if he were your relative or as if he did not leave alone. I see, for this reason, that the gentleman wanted to end a conflict, a brief contact that had actually arisen between him and, of course, also the Director of UKM Urbania and so on and so forth, and now that he has actually decided to do so, I think that we are on a path that can even solve the problem and that the normal STA will in a short time continue to be financed regularly. What else would you say about this director's job? That you're the user of the institution and the consumer of the budget, and you actually have a contract between 4 and 5 grand up there and you don't have to report to anyone, and that's a dream job, where else do you get a job? So there's no management service anywhere, so there's no reporting, and there's no job anywhere, unless you're just your own entrepreneur, so you don't have any boss over you, and what rules do we have? So perhaps in some past times, and in some previous social order, there is something to do without contracts in democracy that are usually contracts. Is it now public funds, the property of the Slovenian people, because this is paid from the budget so much more that it has to be done with responsibility, the best thing to do is, then the matter is traceable or it is done transparently or it is not a contract, it records what has been done, what has been paid? It is not clear how we can imagine that someone could actually do an analysis or some institution operates transparently if they do not have any documents. Some of the indisputable facts that we heard yesterday, both from UKOM Director and STA Director, were also not possible, as I have already said, that there must have been a situation where communication was not normal. We also have today I'm going to say on the table and we've got to know the whole correspondence or a chronological review of this event between October and November 2020 until the last 30. 9. So when Director Veselinovic withdraws from this it is somehow clear that what the founder demanded was not what they expected him to do. Somehow, then, also, that he has ensured normal functioning and so far has been paying wages means that such catastrophic money is not missing. Among the documents we received on the table is also clearly stated that the Government and UKOM have not received information all the time on how much is actually earned by market activity and how much is spent on this market activity, and this public service has not actually been separated and, of course, logically, that tickets are expected to be placed on the table and yes, then we can all know that the actual work of the STA as well as the Government and UKOM has been done honestly, meaning that in fact, if UKOM is a direct budgetary user, it must, with the means it has to operate legally and responsibly and intentionally. Once again, if we are democratically elected Members here, we need to support this, that this Government wants to work transparently and not on the finger of all services, not playing any role, not any other public role, but in all of which it has at least a small share of ownership so that it does not attempt to destroy any public service at least STA. From us, our voters expect us to work transparently and often hear them if any of the Members have not done anything under all the rules and under all the laws KPK keeps us unaware of the Lobby Rules and so we have all the time a citizen who has sent us all over ourselves and we answer to him. So if any director of any institution in Slovenia that is owned by the majority of the country is not willing to put any public service on the table, I don't know how much money he actually turned, how much money he got, how much he earned, how much he spent, then it comes to a little suspicion or it was all made transparent if he doesn't want to show it or not. He's shooting at some sort of suspicion. From this new, now still unsigned contract, which Ukom has actually offered to Mr Veselinovich, but he did not agree with it, I must say that there are also some things, news, normal, even good, in this objective, that some measure of efficiency can also be achieved, which is clear everywhere in every institution, also from every director, that it is somehow understandable that he wants to know whether he is doing well or not. But no one's tampering with his reporting autonomy. Once again, as everywhere else, I must support the fact that citizens expect order and also report through us to every media in Slovenia, as well as to the STA to report impartially and neutrally. I think that this recommendation is actually irrelevant to the Government, and somehow the Legislative and Legal Service said yesterday that we cannot actually ask the Government to do something that we do not have competence and not rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Proposer, I'm sorry. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry, Tina. Firstly, we are not only Members of our specific constituents, we are representatives of all people - 82nd Article of the Constitution. Article 2 of the Constitution states — what, my fellow respects? – that we are a legal and social state. And there are laws in the rule of law. Not the whim of someone, uh, how I'm gonna do the order, and I'm gonna hit the table, or I'm not gonna hit the table like your buddy did yesterday. And if you read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, I will read only one sentence: In fact, in fact, that some content is regulated by law is an obligation contained in full respect for the law. Pika. And that's what we're talking about today. I'm sure a broader legal explanation will be given by colleague Heferle now. That's what we're talking about. Not about whether someone likes Urbania or a retired director, up or down. And if you don't pay something for an activity to someone, which is what the government has been doing on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia for 281 days now, every elementary schoolboy knows it's called what? - Someone's working, not paid for. What's that? Slavery. It's a slave relationship, my dear. This violates Article 14, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, Article 21, of the Constitution, which speaks of human dignity, Article 34 of the Constitution, which speaks of personal dignity and security, Article 49 of the Constitution, which prohibits forced labour, even so article 50 of the Constitution, which speaks of the right to social security and protection. And I'm going to stop here, and I haven't even gotten to those articles of the Constitution that deal with, let's say, the extension of working relations. That's what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Proposer's representative, Janja Sluga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u34	I didn't want to come by right away, but I see you're going to continue today with the same lies you kept telling on the board yesterday. And that's unacceptable. That is why it is necessary to say a few things at the outset, in addition to what Comrade Trček said, as an excellent point of view. First, respect for the Constitution, respect for the Slovenian Press Agency Act, respect for the CAP 7. These are the legal bases that go directly to the financing of the Slovenian Press Agency for the performance of its public service, which is also evident and daily, without counting the articles by number of publications, I do not know why to find out whether it actually performs this public service. Anyone who has an app or Internet access on his phone may find that this public service is actually carried out on a daily basis. And the manko of this public service was seen on Twitter a few days ago when the Slovenian Press Agency decided not to publish any news on Twitter one day. I think the difference was obvious. Therefore, arguing that it is only necessary to determine whether the public service has actually been performed is foolish. What must also be said is that yesterday, very selective, of course as you know it, you read the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the part about what the legal basis is, whether a regulation is necessary, or whether a contract is required and so on, because you read parts of this decision that are not related at all. And I will now tell you what, in the very explanation of the judgment, the Supreme Court has in fact written down that there will be no further repetition of the lie. Therefore, the Supreme Court, in its explanatory memorandum, emphasises, inter alia, that the financing of the public service of the STA under the STA Act is obliged to provide its founder, that is, the State. The suspension of the regulation does not constitute any obstacle to the state payment of public service compensation, as we have already told you today, but yesterday, the basis for payment is already the STA Act and the 7th Anti-Corona Act. Which body will carry out this funding or the relationship between the government and its authorities, is not essential in the case, is not essential, the court found. And also as an unjustified rejection of the State’s argument that enforcement of the regulation is necessary because 7. The CAP does not specify the body which is bound by the payment of the refund. The payment is made by the Republic of Slovenia, said in the Supreme Court, and they do not agree with the Government that a regulation is necessary. Nor do they agree with the Government that a contract is necessary because Article 66 of the PKP 7 is sufficiently clear that it does not even need to be concluded. Why? Not because of what colleague Jeraj points out so that the STA could then adopt a business plan, which would say that it needs 20 million, but should receive 20 million, not by any chance. You're lying here, too. The PA Business Plan shall be adopted and endorsed by the STA Supervisory Board. It also sits on your side, on your side called experts. You said the experts were the ones you sent to this supervisory board. And these supervisors are reviewing, I hope, reviewing this business plan before they confirm it and confirm it. And this business plan then provides the basis for the monthly payment. And there's something else about this transmission. The Republic of Slovenia shall finance the public service, not the other part for which you request it all the time, or Urbania shall require data. For a market area for which the State has nothing to offer, the State has nothing to ask. For the public service, the Slovenian Press Agency reports twice a month, all the time and does not lie about not reporting. Twice a month. First, the indicative report, because the month is not yet completed, where the indicative data and then the final report for the past month are by 15 months, where it is very accurate to report on all the finances relating to the management of the public service. Every month since Urbania's been there. It is a fact, however, that the dispute began when Urbania wanted data that did not concern him, when he wanted minutes, when he wanted to decide who STA would interview and who would not. When he wanted to direct whom the STA would interview and who not, how many articles it would publish about your president or any parliamentary group complaining that it was not enough to be present today, then the problem began when he wanted to interfere with what would be written, what would be written. When he even wanted comparisons, who was he talking about, etc. And don't fool around. You also keep referring to this control of the use of public funds. But there is nothing to worry about about controlling the use of public funds when I do not appoint European Delegated Prosecutors, whose task is to control the use of public funds, in that case of course of European funds, however, these are public funds. Then you don't have to worry about it. Nor do you worry when you bring to the table a budget where for four or five billion you exceed your income. Even then, there is absolutely nothing to worry about about controlling the use of public funds. You don't even worry when you don't bring into this house the budget rebalancing for this year, that at the end of the year we won't even know what we've spent and what we haven't spent, and the Fiscal Council already reminds you that at this point we've spent everything we've planned to spend by the end of this year. Even at this point, you have absolutely nothing to worry about. And you are even less concerned when you take a decision on the Government for 600 new jobs in the state administration. And 10 on Ukom to understand each other. 10 at Ukom, which is likely to count articles for the public service of these ten people. You don't have to worry about that either. However, you are concerned that it is not by chance that someone has written something in his own way into the S.A. business plans, which your people have also reviewed and confirmed. And I'm going to say no at this point that we don't like the other director, and we don't like the other one. Today and all the time we've been talking about the STA, we're not talking about her director. We're talking about hundreds of people and their families working there. At this point, as Comrade Duck said, in a slave-ownership relationship. And we donate to work for this country what is standard in every democratic country. A national institution such as the Slovenian Press Agency, which provides information to people, all citizens and citizens, impartially, autonomously. This is a democratic standard, which in every normal country is something like this, because it is necessary to guard when you have a little girl's eye, not to do what you do now. I don't know if you're aware of this or not, and I can't decide what's more tragic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u35	Thank you very much. [[background advertising]] Procedural Dr. Duck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u36	See, Chairman, during the consideration of the agenda items, a representative or representative of the executive branch of the Authority shall be present under the Rules of Procedure. Now, yesterday for quite some time there was Mrs Ifigenia's raincoat, today is a change, though it is a really beautiful dark-blue coat, for a magnetogram. I understand that a representative or a representative of the Government has physiological needs, and each one of us has them. But these needs, unless it's a case of diarrhea, do not last 20 minutes or longer. I therefore propose that you suspend the meeting, ensure the presence of a representative or a representative of the government. Because she's already making fun of her plus ultra. And then we move on. Because we're breaking the rules of procedure basically.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u37	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. This is not stated in the Rules of Procedure that a government representative must be present. Even though I can see he's got papers here. And I'm not going to interrupt. Here's the procedure again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u38	Above a small Constitution is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which reads in article 110 “The Government corresponds to the National Assembly”. Is Mrs. Ifigenia's skirt going to suit us now? I don't know if she has any of those abilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The word is Tina Heferle, prepare for Predrag Baković. Here you go. Please proceed with procedure, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u40	Madam President, I ask that the degradation of the National Assembly cease. To tell ourselves here, or for a magnetogram, to the camera. And we are insisting that there is a representative or representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia here because we are talking about a little too serious things to joke about. Some basic procedure, some basic respect must be ensured and you, as at the moment, are obliged to ensure. Therefore, we ask you to suspend the meeting at the same time until Mrs Ifigenia shows up again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I'm not stopping the session. I see it's ma'am, it's got papers here. And maybe somewhere he's listening from outside. The word is Tina Heferle, prepare for Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Now, given that the problem of the non-funding of the STA is indeed the problem of the rule of law in our country, I will present to all our citizens and citizens who accompany us, believe me, yesterday's committee has been very much watched, illustrated how in fact you are theirs, ours, the government represents the rule of law in our country. This government represents the rule of law in such a way that it marks justice at a time when they do not like any decision taken by the court by means of misjudgment. This government represents the rule of law in such a way that it does not respect the judgments of the courts. We have just seen the ruling of the Administrative Court a few days ago, where it came to the conclusion of the government that it had annulled the call or the procedure for the selection of two European Delegated Prosecutors, the government has simply taken a decision or a position that it would not comply with this judgment because, according to it, the verdict cannot be carried out. That is how your government, respected citizens and citizens, imagines the rule of law in our country. Or if we touch on the STA case in particular, this government dares to comment on or interpret the Supreme Court's decision very selectively, very selectively, from sentence to sentence, those who can be interpreted as if the government is interested. However, those who cannot be interpreted simply or simply do not read or consider or ignore them. Thus this government represents the rule of law in our country, respected citizens and citizens. Now, on the other hand - very ironicly - this same government is smart about the rule of law even to the President of the European Commission, when it is really fighting and advocating that our country, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will still fulfil its legal duty and start funding the STA, the President of the Government somehow points out that it is the one who is violating the rule of law. Or how ironicly this government coalition allows itself to refer to thematic meetings where they question the question of the question of the conduct of certain state prosecutors in certain public-response cases, in short, in mockery at citizens and citizens, on the other hand, they have paid more than EUR 2 million in fines imposed on them on the basis of, beware, unconstitutional government decisions, established unconstitutional government decisions. And that same government dares to know what the real government is, unheard of. We, on the side of the opposition, can also try to explain and reason, but if, on the other hand, we have coalition representatives who are excited about the laws in force in our country, the judgments of the courts, which are the only ones that can be tried in judicial proceedings, then I fear where you are taking us, the respected colleagues of the coalition or the respected government are the last to be able to reason on what the rule of law is. And to quote you, the fellow Servant has already read something from this infamous Supreme Court ruling, and I will read you something else that is very easy to understand if of course man wants to understand. As to who and when and on what basis it is obliged to finance the STA. In this regard, the Supreme Court emphasises, I quote, that the financing of the provision of the public service of the STA under Article 3, paragraph 1, of the STA Act is the responsibility of the Government as its founder. And go ahead. The legal basis for payment, beware, is already the Law on STA itself, and specifically for 2021 the legal basis is already Article 66 of the Anti-Corron Law of the 7th. So, the court tells you very clearly that you don't need to pay your obligations to the U.S.A., no contract, no regulation, but the law tells you so. In addition to this argument, when you had an excuse at the beginning of the year that the Government has nothing to do with this funding, that is why UKOM is in charge, because the Government has given the authority to UKOM, the Supreme Court very nicely tells you which authority or whatever authority exercises any authority is involved in financing the relationship that is within the Government and the STA, so in this case it is irrelevant where any powers are transferred, the relationship between the Government and the State and the Government is the one that violates the law. Now you're saying that in the opposition we tell you that you owe what you owe and so on, no, that's the law telling you. Once again, the STA Act, the PKP Law, and not least, you are very well on the way to this point, not to say anything more harsh, the Supreme Court's decision. And we were able to listen to a lot of excuses on the committee yesterday why the Government did not meet its obligation to finance STA of this state secretary spoke about some accounting standards on separate financial statements and so on. Mr Urbani then said that the STA did not fulfil its obligations by not submitting some documents, documents for which it had assessed that it should. In short, then we came up with a reason that no signed contract at the end was necessary after your even the existence of a government regulation. In short, the very lies and the flooding and the evasiveness of the legal order, the disregard of the laws. The Act on STA tells you very clearly in Article 3 that the financing of the STA, that it is comprehensive and that it is smoothly implemented on the basis of the annual business plan of the STA, therefore you do not need any contract, no regulation. All you need is to start respecting the law. You are not only violating one of them, and you are treating the judiciary, the judicial authorities, with extreme disrespect. You do not have a demeaning and disrespectful and hateful relationship only to the STA you have with people, to the employees at STA you could also list everyone. It is not true that the salaries of STA employees have been paid because the Government would have fulfilled its legal obligations and not its obligations. Employees were paid for their work only and only because they were forced to raise funds, donor funds. We have collected citizens because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has failed to fulfil its legal duty. Shame, shame. Yesterday, we could have heard, among other things, this lie or falsehood. Both the Secretary of State and Mr Urbani have argued very vehemently and very confidently that the STA has lost all court proceedings so far and that the cases in the courts are already closed. I'm worried that they said this because this is the first time I've been worried about this, because apparently the representative of the government is not at all informed that on Wednesday the first public hearing is on this subject. In particular, the enforcement procedure shall continue before the District Court of Economic Affairs where the first hearing will take place next Wednesday. The fact that all the legal remedies are exhausted and that STA has lost everything is simply misleading and distorting the truth. Now, given that we have also heard yesterday, I will repeat today again the observation by Mr Urbania that, of course, all these years now, 10 years of funding has been fine, that now for just once a year and a little more is a problem. I'll get the ball back. Mr Urbania took up his post last September as a situation or a complication with the financing of the STA occurred one month after the performance of his post who is now here or where the cause is and where the result is very obvious and you must be very intent not to see it. In short, all the excuses to such and other unfounded reasons, in my opinion, also the end of the sentence to some Public Finance Act and to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, and to the fact that UKOM or STA must be economical in the use of funds and so on. All well and well, but, regarding the financing of the STA is a special law, the Law on STA and now the PKP-7, and there is no doubt that the legal basis exists that the legal commitment of this Government exists and there is no doubt that this Government is in breach of the law. In no democratic country, but indeed, in no one, at least in our own, should Members fight for the government that rules to respect laws. That's absurd. This is absurd, and I don't know where you're taking us with this action or we can see, because, even in the last days, you're taking us to an authoritarian state, you're taking us to a police state where the Government, of course, is a choice whose laws it will respect and which, on the other hand, citizens are obliged to pay fines, cash fines of 2 million euros, on the basis of some government decisions that are unconstitutional and at the same time, citizens exercising their constitutional right to protest, in the middle of Ljubljana, are inflamed. You lead us to such a country, and that is unacceptable, incomprehensible, and that is certainly not the rule of law that you sing so much. And if there are any rights in this world, well, we will all do so together, with common powers, because you are hurting our citizens and citizens, as well as our country, and this is the mirror you are setting up, on behalf of Slovenia, the wider world, and I am certainly not signing under this, and you can be ashamed to let our country do so by allowing our Slovenian Press Agency to do so. Incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković has the word to prepare Natasa Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u44	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Of course, I would also like to welcome the representatives of the Government, who, in my opinion, should be sitting here, but there is no one in here, so I cannot greet them, and this also shows how serious today's topic for this government is, obviously, showing empty benches where I think everyone in charge, including the President of the Government, should be sitting. Every so often, or I will say regularly, most often, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, convene a thematic meeting of the Committee or a meeting of the National Assembly, on the subject of respect for the rule of law and on the subject of double criteria in respect of the rule of law, and so on and so forth, of course, they always have in mind the part of the acquis which they consider to be inconsistent with their agenda, their views or their political orientation. However, you know, the law has been built and upgraded in Slovenia or repaired, if you want, for 30 years, and it is a living matter that is being complemented and complemented in all this period, when one or the other or a third political option was in power and so, for this legal order that we have, of course, cannot say that it is written on the skin of one or the other political option, which is also right and, of course, we cannot and must not partially assess it, given the current authority and the fact that the current authorities fit and what does not. And if I now focus on the STA, then they have actually been working since the birth of this country and those who have helped with this birth, these countries of ours, we have been and are still proud of it. On 20 June 1991, the STA then published the first news, and after the initial period, due to its proper and objective work, it became in fact self-evident and indispensable. This was until the arrival of the current political authorities, and then everything changed. The war on the media began, as in May 2020, in the title of Prime Minister Janez Janša's contribution, and so began the STA Calvary, which is still ongoing and does not really appear to be over at this political situation. They started to think that STA is a fan of fake news, how STA is a national disgrace. By celebrating 30 years of operation. Following the UKOM pressure with various demands, in November 2020 the first stop of funding lasted three months and was followed by funding or payment on the basis of the provisions of the CAP7 and also on the basis of the European Commission's response. Then came the appeals of the Committee on Culture with a call for funding, but nothing happened. As a counter-measure, criminal charges against the director of the STA followed, four supervisors against the former director, but all of this prosecution dismissed. Then came the second suspension of funding in February 2021, which is still ongoing and, of course, calls for the resignation of the Director of the State, proposals for supervisors to relieve the Director, the pressure through the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the NPU investigation, then the pressure of the Inspectorate for Work, which did not detect significant breaches of legislation. It was followed by campaigns to raise funds from the U.S.A., for which the Prime Minister, as well as the Interior Minister, made fun of each other. The matter went further, it was tweeted that the director of STA was even involved in some murder of a journalist. In the meantime, it happened that the President of the State, Mr Pahor, has granted a state honour medal, which we can actually understand as a paraphrased statement by Maria Antoniote, because you know that if they don't have bread, they should be encouraging. And find out who can. On the one hand, we exhaust the STA to disability, on the other hand, they are given a state medal, a line of credit. Of course, these things have also been followed by the government's conclusions on the special audit, the operation of the STA, calls from the European Commission to let the government do its work, but nothing has happened. Nothing. Although the Supreme Court has confirmed the Government's obligation to finance the STA and that the obligation applies irrespective of the contract concluded or not. The Supreme Court also annulled the suspension of the STA Public Service Financing Regulation and stated that under the law the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to provide funding monthly for 2021 in accordance with the business plan. And we're back to square one. When I started my debate on respect for the rule of law in Slovenia and on the reference of various thematic meetings, but because it is not a priority of respect for the rule of law by the current policy, nothing will happen and it also shows empty benches where the government should sit. However, or precisely because of that, here in this place I call on the government to finally respect the rule of law and fulfil its obligation and immediately start to finance the STA, because it is a duty to do so. In fact, if she does not do so, she will show what she has to do with the rule of law and, in fact, with respect for the rules and laws that the first one should respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has Natasha Sukič, ready for Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected. After yesterday's session, and today, and after what we read in the media about European Delegated Prosecutors, we can find that we live in a country where we no longer live by law, not by the Constitution and not by any court's decision, even though it is the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. So we can drive a peaceful soul through a red light and not answer to anyone. Today we can also say that we have a new Government of the Republic of Slovenia composed of the opposition, because we no longer need 46 votes to overthrow the present. This is how John Janša acts with his people. That's how they act and act. And look, as much gas as we saw two days ago in Ljubljana, over 400 canisters spent it, so that they gasted the nearby center of Ljubljana, flooded innocent people, children, people who went shopping, sat in cafes, so much smoke we can only see here at yesterday's or today's session, when the coalition distributes about STA and sells us a lie for a lie. One lie at a time. We listen to the contract, the contract, the contract all the time. As if it does not exist in PKP 7 66, where it is clearly stated that the STA must be financed this year even if the contract is not concluded. Why there is no contract, we can only think. I'm sorry if I'm a little metaphorical about the vocabulary that's going on here, but I wouldn't just sign a treaty with the devil. There is already such a thing inside, which would mean a complete submission of the STA to whom, of course, only the political will of John Janša. Thus, the Slovenian Press Agency has not received any State compensation for public service for the past 281 days, even if 100 workers and workers regularly and professionally perform it every day, with the only exception of 2 days ago, when for the first time after all this exhaustion, they have shown in this agony what it means to darken their services, for the first time and only. Why are they getting paid? Because we are citizens and citizens who are aware of what the STA means for democracy in this country, for our constitutional rights, we are informed objectively because we have collected donations and contributions, and we will still be respected and respected if necessary, because we will not leave you this spoil that you want to acquire. In short, once again, respected citizens and citizens, what you're listening to from the coalition today, what you're listening to from the Secretary of State and others, lies, lies, lies. The State should have provided these funds to the Slovenian Press Agency before 280 days ago. He's got all the legal grounds for that. And if the STA Act is not enough for them, then here is the guardian in the 7th antikron package in the form of Article 66 and here is the Supreme Court's decision. It is interesting that today the only Members and Members of the SMC Group were not in position. Why do you think they didn't have it? Because it was the SMC Group that proposed this 66th article in the anti-Korona package 7. And when we voted on this amendment, respected and respected, of course, both Gregor Perič and Dušan Verbič voted for this amendment, which we saw here a little while ago, and so on. In short, I think that, with the exception of one SMC Member, all then Members and Members of the SMC. What is most absurd, however, is the anti-Korona package 7 you have accepted by the coalition Members and Members of Parliament. So, what you're doing, this shit you're going through, this sadism, this survival of the STA and the employees there and their families, it's something amazing. You're actually acting against what you've enacted yourself because it doesn't suit you. And not you, you're just ordinary enforcers of the orders coming. We know who it's from. Of the will of one man himself, a renegade who leads this country literally to destruction. The hateful destruction of such an important, creative and successful organisation, which is therefore fundamental to the provision of human communication rights, the fundamental importance for media freedom and the information sovereignty of the State or Republic of Slovenia, if you want, literally borders on extreme insanity, not to say anything worse. And it is particularly worrying and sad that you are doing all this during the pandemic and during the Presidency of the European Union. And what happens to how you react to this beyond our borders? Shameful, scandalous. In the face of the fruits of this hostile rule of yours, we are already reaping in Europe. The European Union is sending its support to the Slovenian Press Agency. Foreign media is dragging us to the teeth. There has already been another public debate in the European Parliament on the situation in Slovenia, and this is indeed embarrassing, respected and respected. And you, Messengers and Messengers, are a cause for reproach. The inappropriate conduct of the President of the Government, who is primitively disrespectful and completely uncivilised and discredits everything through and without exception both from the highest authorities of the European Union and to afford personal attacks on journalists and journalists both at home and abroad, cannot be without reflection, without consequences. This is pointed out by European Press Union Director Renate Schreder, European Press Agency Secretary General Aleksandr Gibo, Vice-President of the European Commission Vera Jurova, European Parliament Vice-President Katarina Berli and many others. The European Parliament, respected and respected today, these times, is discussing the reduction of media freedom in Slovenia. This is something that, I'm sorry, I couldn't have imagined before you took power, I really couldn't have imagined that something like this could have happened to us. Foreign officers report regularly on the government's blockade of the STA and the Janša attacks on journalists. For example, French Le Figaro and Liberasion, Danish DiePresse and Curier, German Der Sipegel and Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, British The Economist, Austrian Radio Television ORF and Appa, European Portal Euractiv, Croatian Press Agency Hina, Index, Morning List, Serbian Press Agency Tanjug and Beta and others, many others, Brusselsian Politics, when I quote, “Slovakia famous poet, listen, Prime Minister Janez Janša apparently again targets the media, now so that he does not pay the funds to the Slovenian Press Agency”, final. Respected and respected! What do you think of that? Do you think the whole world is contaminated with your lies? Do you think our citizens and citizens really don't see what you're doing? You should already be concerned if there is nothing else within you that feels so much about hundreds of STA and their families, you who advocate Christian values, you who feel that you know what kindness is. Think about what you're only doing to these people. A long series of angry attacks on media freedom, on journalists, on the independence of editorial work and media houses carried out by Janšev's government and, of course, the Prime Minister himself through Twittwr, as we know, seriously endangering the autonomy of the media and journalism and the disgrace of our country's reputation has actually reached the bottom of the illegal withdrawal of funds for the operation of the public service of the STA against the law. For if not elsewhere in PKP 7 66 and in the Supreme Court decision, you have a clear reference to what you must do. Without conditions, pay these funds without delay. And everything you do is actually unprecedented. As has been seen so far, it is unprecedented that the work inspectorate has literally hacked into the STA and checked the status of the STA. Something like that, I'm sorry. We've never seen anything like it in the country before. There's a service crew of inspectors breaking into the STA. Just as it has not happened before, the Prime Minister on Twitter has asked the STA Supervisory Board to dismiss the Director. Where do we live? The prime minister on Twitter is calling you or those of you, get rid of you, do it. He calls on the police to act, otherwise the police will act differently. And he's harassing people and using over 400 canisters of tear gas. That's what you do. Really, what did our distinguished prime minister write in his tweet? I quote: "It is time for the Director as a political tool of the extreme left to step down and answer for his illegal conduct and enable STA to work and develop normally." End of story. The director has resigned. Where's the money? Why isn't he a freak yet? Do you know why he's not infected yet? Because there is not yet a new director or director who would be your year or Janez Janša year after year. And look at the fragment. Mr. Kadunc has applied. What else are you gonna make up? What are you going to make up to get to the desired prey? That's what I'm asking you. How long will you lie and speak contract, contract, contract? Respected citizens and citizens, Article 66 of PKP 7, which even the Coalition SMC has proposed, are determined to pay the STA even if the contract is not concluded. So much for a magnetogram, so much for the public, you'll know. And let me just tell you this, destruction of STA is actually a frantal attack on free journalism, on democracy and the constitutional right of the public to information. This is a militant attack by a ruling party on public media and professional journalism in this country. This threatens survival and endangers the social security of all agency employees, the safety of their families. It's about the children, respected Christian Democrats, who say you're in the middle. Let's see what kind of environment you are and what you'll do for the STA. The government party with the goal of total destruction of the media house SO seriously endangers the social security of hundreds of employees who, despite everything you do with them, are still working. And what you're doing, I told you yesterday, is not like Slovenia anymore, it's not like the Republic anymore, it's about Slovenia. And once again, survival is a democratic norm, a dot. And let me conclude with the thought of the great philosopher, rhetoricalist and consul in the Roman Republic of Cicera: “The closer the end of the empire is the crazier its laws.” If we translate this into our situation: Closer to the end of your empire, there is more powerlessness and it is really chaos and disaster what you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Of course, I would like to answer all of your questions, as well as those of those which you have addressed, but unfortunately I cannot answer everything, because some have not just been addressed to me they have obviously been addressed to another secretary of state so that I will unfortunately not be able to answer those questions. Of course, I'm concerned about how more difficult documents can be understood here if someone can't even fill my name. But as for the fact that you've talked about this all the time, the government has to respect the law. Yes, the government must respect the law and it is worrying that the government is being urged here simply not to respect the Public Finance Act. Therefore, it transfers money without any document without any document, because if we look at the Public Finance Act in the first paragraph of Article 54, it is laid down that any expenditure from the underlying budget must have a reliable bookkeeping instrument, which shows the obligation to pay in the second paragraph, and that the obligation arising from the authentic bookkeeping instrument before payment must be verified by the legal basis and the level of the obligation. Given that Article 65 of the Public Finance Act requires, of course, the Government to be responsible for the legality, purpose, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the availability of budgetary resources, the Government not only gives the legal basis for even the undertaking to actually pay what the relevant accounts are for, for which there are written documents and for which there are, of course, accounting documents. What does that mean? If I speak in the language of business, which was obvious to me, of course I do not master it despite my 10-year practice in the company in management, I would say the following. In 10 years, I have not seen a company operating without a price list, because a company without a price list for its services cannot function. There is also no company that would not have received inspection because it would have transferred money without any existing document or accounting document. So much for that. It was also read that, yesterday, on the Committee on Culture, I took the view that UKOM had, of course, received all legal disputes or, of course, that it did not. I've been reporting it exclusively, and I'm only going to repeat the date again. 5. 5. 2021 The District Court in Ljubljana annulled the enforcement decision proposed by the State. 21. 5. 2021 The District Court in Ljubljana annulled the enforcement decision, on the basis of a recovery of EUR 169 000 for January and 169 000 for February 2021 on the basis of a proposal for enforcement submitted by the State. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 6. 2021 The District Court in Ljubljana rejected the proposal of a law firm representing the STA for issuing a provisional order on the dispute against UKOM. 21. Seven. 2021 The Administrative Court has suspended the implementation of the public service regulation STA, 6. 9. However, the Supreme Court granted an appeal to Ukom concerning the question of the suspension of the enforcement of the Regulation and annulled the decision of the Administrative Court concerning the retention of the regulation. So these are the facts. And, of course, we will not comment on these facts because the decisions of the court are clear. And given the fact that it is always being stressed that it is a reference to a contract, we must stress in particular that in practice it has always been the preparation of a contract between the STA and the Public Service Department, and that it is still in September in accordance with Regulation 24. 9. 2021, in accordance with the Regulation and the PKP7, invited the Director of the STA to send a report. So it wasn't a contract. It should at least send a service report so that at least one document can be invoked for the month of August and it has not received this report to Ukom. Why didn't he get it? So Unkom cannot be held accountable for the actions of Director Veselinovich, for his actions, but certainly, from these facts it is clear, he is trying and trying to solve the problem. So much for now. I'll answer the other questions later.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u49	The replica first. Here you go, Tina.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Of course, I must rephrase the ladies of the state. No one, and at least I, with respect, am not saying that any law in this country must be broken. However, I say that the Act on the STA and the PKP7 must be respected. That's what I'm saying. And you misunderstood me when you argued that I urge you not to respect the Public Finance Act. Just the opposite. Article 66 of the PKP7, adopted by the coalition majority or by a minority of your government, tells you that, irrespective of whether or not the founder, i.e. the government, has concluded a contract, from the budget of the State for 2022 to provide public service funds in accordance with the adopted business plan of the State for 2021. And that's the legal standard that you're still in violation of right now. And you are responsible for not respecting the rule of law in our country by the government. And that's what I'm telling you. And don't twist my words and don't tell the truth. But as far as court proceedings are concerned, yesterday you were very much, as you would say, vehemently asserting and apologizing, and I don't know what else is going on with all the lost procedures by the STA. But I just wanted to show you, and I hope that you know that on Wednesday, the first main proceedings concerning the enforcement procedure, which has moved from execution to justice, are convened next Wednesday, as is the case if execution is not stopped at the first stage. And don't get carried away about it. But the fact that you're implying that we in the opposition are calling for you to disobey the rule of law in our country is contrary to yours. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And I'm not gonna let you put words like that in my mouth. The STA Act, once again, provides clearly in Article 3, and is a lex specialis as regards the STA, I hope you know this term and imposes financing on the basis of the adopted business plan, you do not need any regulation, you do not need any contract, it is enough law. And if we lived under your government, [[sign for the end of the debate]] in a legal country where the rule of law is in force, that should be sufficient. But your performance shows where the dog taco prays. Financial exhaustion of the STA to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u51	Thank you very much. First, we have two candidates. The first one got the word Dr. Duck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u52	Yes, thank you. First of all, I would like to apologize to Mrs Ignatius Friedl Jarc for replacing her with Iphigenia so many times, and Mrs Ignacija is also thinking why. And you know, and I remember that Ifigen sacrifice. And what is John Janša Agamemnem, who must sail against Troy, that ye may sacrifice yourselves for him? You doctored from Plato's teachings in fact from the point of view of beauty and art. What kind of art are you up to? What a beauty you are going around the STA lady, here again I wanted to say Ifigenia, which you are sacrificing, Mrs Ignacija. I used to love to read you as the best young critic. I don't know how someone with so much style, someone who knows about beauty and art, on Plato's teachings is actually deceiving and lying here, and as Ifigenia is sacrificing for someone who is not worthy of this sacrifice, Mrs Ignacio.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Representative of the proposer, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman. Yes, now in the beauty of art, Franjo has said his thing. I'm not going in that direction. I would like to say to the Secretary of State that I absolutely agree with her in the part where she said, "The government must respect the law." That's right. He's got to. And even two of them. The first is the STA Act and the second is the PKP7. Pika. Now there is probably no need for some great philosophies here, nor is it necessary to look for what we witnessed last night for six hours on the committee, and today we are probably going to be all eight hours of excuses from five veins, why does the government not respect two laws? That won't be necessary. This is about Mrs. Secretary of State. However, for the first time as a proposaler, I did not, for the first time, come forward when Mrs Alenka Jeraj, in her exposition or in the position of the Group of Members, did, of course, deal with everyone and with everyone who, yesterday, dared to say anything against this government and all those who are working in this government. Let me just say that yesterday, in the opposition, we, in fact, proved for six hours with concrete facts why this government is in violation of the rule of law. And it's only very personal because she named me. There's no offense if I appoint an officer as an officer. Because Urbania, Urosh, I think his name is an official. And where's the insult now? I don't understand. This is the first time, as far as Mrs Jerajeva and her position are concerned, and the second time. In the opposition, she then stated in her position, as if the opposition were saying that we must pay the STA on the basis of a business plan. Now, Madam Jeraeva, in your position, you have been troublesome about something that you obviously have no idea about. Because if we knew Article 3 of the STA Law, we wouldn't say that. It says the following: “The duty of the founder, that is to say the government, your governments is to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of the STA and to provide adequate funding for the comprehensive and smooth implementation of the public service on the basis of”, and now note: “on the basis of the annual business plan of the STA, which the Supervisory Board or the Council also approves.” That's all philosophy. Pika. And that's what your government is so rudely in violation of. And you've been two days or yesterday and today you're gonna be pretending that that's not the case. And that's bob beans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u56	Yes, thank you very much, Vice President. Today, after these few hours, the beginning of this meeting, in particular what has been done in the positions of some coalition parliamentary groups and by a representative of the Government, Madam Secretary of State, is the same thing again. At work is either boundless ignorance or boundless hypocrisy, because what we're listening to again and again, some of the same pseudo arguments, if I connect to Franjot and Plato, I don't know, we're actually witnessing some kind of sophism here again. What the government is doing is a sophism. It is said that it does not aim to save the STA or to actually worry about the welfare of the Slovenian Press Agency, but, as I said yesterday, the 281st day you are looking for excuses or ways not to finance the Slovenian Press Agency. Reference also to the Public Finance Act and so on, these are some seeming arguments, arguments that simply do not hold back. As we say, the matter is quite simple. Okay, we had a law on the Slovenian Press Agency that had provisions and worked until December 2020. Until then, there was no difficulty in decommissioning payments from the public service budget provided by STA for the country, but it was broken when another Government arrived, with some other intentions. Since this has happened and it has proved likely that there will be some problems in this regard, then, in December, when the PKP-7 intervention law was adopted, one coalition group decided to prepare an amendment, then, for a new 70.b article in which it will find a solution to the fact that this STA is actually financed, despite the fact that there is obviously another coalition partner who will strongly insist on not having this funding. Thus, this circuit was accepted if you want or any other solution for the financing of the STA proposed by the Modern Centre Party, which says that a sufficient business plan has been adopted for 2021, for payment. If you ask me, this is a clear enough basis for the issue and the accounts and for the budgetary financing of such a service. This, of course, was also not enough, but almost all Members of the SMC, except for one Member, who is obviously a hard core of the Slovenian Democratic Party, have supported this amendment and finally this coalition has also supported the whole law, the Law of the PKP-7, in which these provisions apply. Since the promulgation and enforcement of this law, it has been part of the Slovenian legal order and is valid. I think that it applies to me, in those provisions he has made, probably also to all other citizens and citizens, and should also apply to the Government. This was not enough, this legal basis was ignored and then we reached a point, until the end of August, when the Supreme Court had to decide that the Government must finance the Slovenian Press Agency. Well, actually, the whole debate about that is abject if you ask me. We have proposed with a recommendation, one very simple thing for the Government to respect the laws to finance the Slovenian Press Agency. Okay, the government doesn't want to, they don't want to respect the laws, they don't want to respect the Supreme Court's decisions, but then we only have one more question left. If there is in fact no administrative reason, if you want there to be any serious obstacle to the fact that there is no payment, there must be another reason. I think we should talk about this today. The presentation of the report of the Committee on Culture also included the content of the discussions on yesterday's Committee. One debate by one of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I think it was very eloquent. This Member said, look, there are still communists in this country, there is a deep country at work that has not been able to replace President John in 30 years, but still has the entire media landscape under control. Now, if you draw the line and think twice, you have the answer to what the real problem is around the STA. As others have said today, they write too little about John John, give too little space to some customers, maybe write 4 lines too much in an interview with some rapper Zlatko and so on. This is a problem, it is a problem for this coalition and for this government that it cannot influence how the UK reports. Because if you go to a parallel world, the one financed by Hungary or the oligarchy around President Orban, who has strong financial injections imprinted on the New24 and satellites or media satellites of the SDS party, you will find that the media work in that world in a different way. They function in such a way that someone, because this is a party SDS, they say, look, this is the truth and you have to write about it. And here I'm talking about producing the truth. What the SDS party thinks of a media landscape is that it has to produce a truth that pleases only someone, of course, and that someone is the one who owns this medium. And so this government with SDS at its head represents this entire country as if it is its property, as if it owns all aspects of social life in this country and that everything must be done as people imagine on Trstenjak, not on Gregorčičev, on Trstenjak. And that's the problem. The government would like the STA not to become a Slovenian press agency, but rather to become a press agency of this particular government. And that's the core of the problem. Therefore, 281 days await payment, which is due to them under several laws and after, if you ask me, according to some common sense logic. We should not even ask ourselves whether the state will finance the Slovenian Press Agency. So everything else is, once again, sophism, everything else is an attempt at defiance, an attempt to hide the actual agenda that is here in the background. And I'm really asking you to stop blinding yourself, stop making a fool of people. And I think, I don't know where I read it today, but that every grandmother in Slovenia already knows what the story about the STA is. And you're still trying to climb through the glass, through the bars and look for a way out of this situation. The outcome is simple, follow the law and start paying interest on what belongs to the Slovenian Press Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u57	Thank you very much. A representative of the government has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u58	Your Honor, you asked me why I was here. I'm also here because of Plato, who's always been trying to find the truth. How do we get to her? With dialogue, with conversation and, of course, with all the facts being judged. And on the other hand, I'm here because of Plato, because he kept reminding the sophists, who ate up the athenian democracy, his logic, his logic of the speech, which talked about the power of the word to do false things for the real. And since I'm very much fighting this, I'm going to have another argument. He tried and made every effort to conclude the contract between the STA and Ukom. Since the Director’s position was problematic that Ukom was not in charge of coordination, a new regulation was put into force authorising Ukom to prepare and implement the financing of the STA. This Regulation shall enter into force on the 26th day following that of its publication in the Official Right after that, 2. Seven. 2021 In accordance with the agreement of the UK, the draft contract was sent to the STA, even though the Director of Veselinović still did not send the key information on the costs of individual services. Seven. 7. He again asked Director Veselinović to provide this information. 9. 7. The Director of STA Veselinović provided the desired information after several requests. 12. Seven. The Director was asked to explain the individual cost items and did not receive an answer. 13. Seven. A second coordination session took place at Ukom, 14. Seven. He forwarded Uk to STA the revised draft contract. 20. Seven. 2021 Ukom sent a final version of the public service contract to the STA. The value of the contract for 2021 is estimated at EUR 2 million 28 000. 24. 9. The Director still did not conclude the contract, so, in accordance with the Regulation and the PKP7, Ukom was asked by Director Bojan Veselinović to send a report on the services provided for the month of August in order to enable Ukom to make the payment. As I said before, he didn't send this report. 29. 9. 2021 was the last coordination meeting between Director Veselinović and Director Urbanija, at which Ukuk agreed to virtually all STA requirements with regard to the assessment of the costs of the individual first public service. According to the July 2021 contract, Ukom also agreed to increase the cost of photography from the original 4 to the new 26 euro. However, it cannot consent to double funding at the request that articles which are contrary to the law be entered into the contract so that the photographs which must be fully paid to Uk as a public service can be sold once again on the market. Your Honor. So, to teach, we can see daily or weekly, he's taken all the procedures to make a deal. There was no agreement on the part of the Director. And now we're listening here to what the government wants. The government's wish is absolutely transparent. It is the desire of the Government, as provided for in Article 3 of the STA Act, to carry out professional, technical, organisational and development tasks for Ukom. And for that, she prepared a regulation. It is also not only a wish, but it has the legal basis for having the right to have an insight into the STA's operating documents. In fact, this is the case with each member, which is also reflected in Article 512 of the Company Act. So not to say what the government wants is on an ideological level. The Government's desire is transparent financial functioning of the entities and, of course, what its function is – supervision and economic management of finances. And please address the question to Director Veselinovich why the agreement has not been reached despite all the attempts and the daily negotiations between Ukomo and STA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u59	Thank you very much. He's got a word for Tina Hefferle's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u60	Madam Secretary of State, I ask you with all due respect if you stop making a fool of us and the citizens. It's not about any government desire, it's not about any negotiation, it's not about any search for truth. What else did you say? It is not a matter of coordination regarding the conclusion of a contract, and so on I ask you kindly, if you are already sitting here respectfully, I ask you to listen to our discussions as well. It is only and only one fact to respect the laws in our country by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Act on STA, the PKP7 imposes funding directly on the basis of the law. You don't need any regulation, you don't need any contract enough is if you comply with and respect the laws in force in this country. Do not be fooled because this is extremely perverted and extremely disrespectful of us Members, who have been honking the same thing for two days here. You don't respect the laws, you break the law, you violate the constitutional and legal order of our democratic state. Government officials are violating all of this and don't think of us as a fool. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u61	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Replica, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u62	Look at the Secretary of State. On behalf of the truth, let us think a little bit about how not the first, nor the other Janša government did this with STA what it does this time and then we also had the Public Finances Act and we had only the STA Law we didn't have an additional seventh antikoronic package and the 66th article which is unequivocal and which says that we need to finance the STA immediately and even without a contract, but if you need to explain it on behalf of the truth, maybe you should tell us what you think about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposed magi shall have the floor. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u64	Thank you. Indeed, we have been dealing for two days with whether laws must be respected in our country or not and if the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture does not understand that laws must be respected, then we have a serious problem. I think I'm going to read you an article in the law that was passed for the past 10 years by a respected secretary of state. 12. 2020 was accepted by your Government and your coalition. However, irrespective of Article 20 of the Act on STA, this Law regulates financing, the management of public service, which is carried out under the law. Next paragraph: “WITH, irrespective of whether or not the founder has concluded a contract referred to in the first indent of Article 20(1) of the Slovenian Press Agency Act of 2021 for the performance of the public service, shall be provided with funds in accordance with the adopted Business Plan of the State for 20/21.” Has the business plan been adopted? It's been adopted. The law states that regardless of whether the contract is concluded or not, what truth do you seek or understand from the state budget? We have been reading 8 lines for two days, and this is what the secretary of state at the Ministry of Culture teaches us that there is no need to respect the laws. I think it's hard to understand. In addition, the Honourable Secretary of State, take the opinion of the House's Legislative and Legal Service into your hands and read the sentence there. Already in the fact that some content is regulated by the law is an obligation contained in full respect for the law. No, you don't want to understand that you don't understand. You don't want to, because you want to shut down SO, because you want to let 100 people down, and like you said, you want to set the truth up in your own way. Now there's something else. On 20 April 2021, the Government was publicly informed that the STA allows it access to all management books and writings. What else do you want from the U.S.A.? What more do you want? They've made everything available to you. They've made everything available to you. If you want, we can go to the Public Finances Act and read again to you all those ten people who have been employed at Ukom and who are very close to the SDS party and 12 thousand euros that he gave to his friend from the Great Mountain and 23 thousand euros that someone has received to study something, etc. Then let's talk about this, not about not wanting to do public service, you don't want to do it, despite the fact that the law imposes on you something to pay for. We do not talk today or work the Slovenian Press Agency poorly or works well, or writes nicely or writes badly about the ruling coalition. We don't talk about it, we talk about the need to respect our country's laws if they have to be respected. But if you don't need them, tell them you don't need them, but then it's not just for you, it's for all of us, but it's also for second-class citizens. You're doing this with our country. You're doing this with our country. And not here to quote some terrible philosophers. Take the law into your hand and read what your Government has proposed, and your coalition has accepted it. It's a shame. Today there will be no effect of this, but it is right for the Slovenian people to hear what you are doing with our country. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u66	Respected! I have made it clear that the funds are EUR 2 million and would also be paid, but it is necessary to either break or call for violations of the Public Finance Act, which also needs to be taken into account. In order to comply with the STA Act, which deals with the appropriate separation of public service activities and market activities and Article 6(9) of the STA, it must not finance market activities from funds obtained for the management of public service. It is likely necessary to determine what is public service and what is not public service. What is financed and what is not financed. That this is a problem, the 29th meeting was held. 9. 2021, where the wish was expressed, as I have stated, that although of course it takes over the full cost of photographs and therefore fall under the public service, the desire was expressed to sell these photographs on the market. But this is double funding. And if Ukom finds that Ukom has identified certain infringements, public activity sharing, public and market public service and market activities, then it is likely that this needs to be harmonised. And I'm sure Director Veselinovich should coordinate this as soon as possible, because they agreed so-called "conclusion", but the issues remain open.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u67	Thank you very much. It was a replica before. Natasha Sukich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u68	Dear Secretary of State! What you're saying is that the first government of Janez Janša and the second government of Janez Janša violated the Public Finances Act by unfailingly financing the STA and not demanding and making up such a fabrication as you are now making up. I mean, it's too big. There is an annual report, there is an audit report and everything was fine. You're inventing new and new, literally domestically speaking, pranks and deceptions and that you are seen by a respected secretary of state, are you not ashamed in front of yourself to do this. [[…]] You know, you know we're right, and you know exactly how unfair it is to do what you do. Your Ministry of Conduct, we know who. You know very well. And yes, if you can get a quiet soul out of here and forget about all this. Don't you have that in front of you because you're doing it? I doubt it, I doubt it. Let's imagine how far servitude goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bratušek as a proponent or a replica? There you go. He's got your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u70	Double funding, Ukom doesn't even pay the euro, all the trips of your ministers, the Prime Minister of the Government, are covered for free. And you're talking about double funding. What kind of double funding?Oh, my God! What kind of double funding? They must earn money on the market in order to go on tours of your ministers. Let's hear it. But if we go to the Public Finances Act, we can talk about violations by tomorrow morning. I just listed them on Ukom. I don't know how many. Do not refer to the law on public finances, because you are very much on torn feet. You're looking for something you can't find. The fact is, the law provides. The fact is also, Madam Secretary of State, that you're defending something you don't believe in, but they just found you and sent you here. But that's right. You respect the law, it's our only request, I'll say it now. You respect the law. Don't leave 100 people without a job and their children without bread. That's what's gonna happen in a few days. I want to know how you're going to get in front of these people and tell them that they can't even get a salary from the double funding you're giving them. This is obvious to them, double funding, without giving a single euro for the first part of the funding. Shamelessly, shamelessly, you're breaking the law, and you're still trying to make excuses for it, but it's not going to work. It's not working. Four lines. We read them yesterday. We can read them again today. It is very clear: regardless of whether or not the contract is concluded, it is the responsibility of the State to finance it. It's really not that hard to understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Next up is Alexander Reberšek, to prepare Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Yeah, first of all, I'd like to say that it's surprising to me that the Left, who is so fond of defending the working class and spreading this mantra to all equally, is a blessing to everyone, not just a handful. That Levica has supported Mr Veselinovic's stay in a position that received over 6,000 euros a month. The monthly salary of Mr Veselinovic represented more than a third of the profit of STA per year. When I asked Mr Veselinovic to tell the Member States and the general Slovenian public on the Commission for the supervision of public finances what the salaries of the employees of the STA were, of course, I did not get the agreement. I also did not get an answer as to how much Mr Veselinovich himself contributed, donated from his large salary to his employees. It seems stupid to me that in a social country like this, we have to collect text messages for parents of children with special needs, for therapy, for surgery. However, that citizens collect SMS messages also for the salaries of the Director of the STA, which amounts to EUR 6 000 and more, I find completely unworthy. And today's session is dedicated to the public and to all of you who are sitting there watching this through small screens. The party Alenka Bratušek, together with the opposition, is diverting its debate. This is sand in the eyes because such news diverts attention from the good work of this government. That's the main point of today's session. To divert attention from good work. We have economic growth, we have the lowest unemployment rate. With 1. 9. Free kindergarten is in place for the second and all further children, investment in school infrastructure in schools and kindergartens throughout the country 115 million and a half. The biggest invitation from independence to our children. We have spent the most money on family policy in the last ten years. Free of charge is the living of parents in hospitals, and we have increased the remuneration for parents of children with special needs. Retirement is on the move. When did the pensioners get as much as they got under this government? When Alenka Bratsek was in the opposition, wasn't she?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u73	Your Honor, I'm sorry. Members, please respect Rule 75, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure. Please! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u74	Once again, it's just that, it's a cheap pear of the opposition and a diversion of attention. That's the main point of this session. I'll tell you why. Because this government is working. We eliminate the injustices of the most vulnerable groups, we will pay back the blind and visually impaired, we will raise disability pensions, we will spend two billion on Slovenian health care, we will spend 44 million more on science, in research, we are saving the status of firefighter and soldiers. In this short time, we have done more than you have done in all governments before. He's been building as much as he hasn't been in our country for a long time. Most of all, this government works, and the opposition, with the late stages, distracts people from all of this and divides them. And this topic, this session today is meant to do just that. I'm asking myself one question at a time. What would you all do in the opposition if there were no STA, European prosecutors and Prime Minister Janez Janša. Tell you what, we wouldn't do anything. You know why? Because you have no content, because you have done nothing, you have done absolutely nothing because you are all one great pierre and performance. In the last 20 years, the SD party has been in power for 14 years. How many hospitals have you built? How many schools did you build? How many homes for the elderly? You didn't build any. And that is what this session is all about today. Let's focus a little bit on some other subjects. The SAB party pushed billions of euros of money into a privileged bank hole. How much pension money is that? Tell your pensioners, let's be honest and tell them that. I need to commend the LMSH client in this place so I'm not just going to be unjust. The LMŠ party or LMŠ government was then burdened with all taxes and it is commendable, that is one good thing. And the other thing is that you resigned. And for the state of the country, I'm telling everyone it's Levi's fault. The Left is to blame for the state in the country that this government is to blame for you. Because you have automatically calculated that the chair is worth much more than your empty words, the promises you know exactly that you will never be able to fulfill. You didn't want to join the government of Marjana Sharca, and that's why this government is. Not now to cry, but to say what's wrong, you have the greatest responsibility for the situation in our country. Respectable citizens and citizens. Let's ask ourselves one question. What will the Slovenian people have today from this meeting? There will be no vote at the end of this session. Today we will not vote on anything at the end of this session. What exactly is this all about? At the end of this meeting, the financing of the STA will not be regulated, the contract will not be signed and the work of the journalists will not be paid. Things don't work out that way, and Alenka Bratušek knows exactly that. It is therefore only a public and parliamentary performance, as well as former Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, who has nothing to show for his work. And in such a violent way, it collects political points here in the National Assembly and thus ensures its political survival. This government works and solves things behind cameras and the opposition calls for such meetings and the work of the Slovenian people. And since Mrs Alenka Bratušek asked the Secretary of State at the beginning of this meeting if she would give up her salary, at least that was the question there, I ask Mrs Alenko Bratušek. Are you registered to give up your salary in order to make it easier to pay compensation for all uneducated investors, subordinated securities that have been dispossessed by the government of Alenka Bratušek? Are you ready? And if in the time of Alice's Brother was valid, we don't need the money, we just need the time, is now just the opposite, we don't need the time, we just need the money. So we need money to pay for all of Alenka's sins.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u75	Thank you very much. First of all, he has a procedural Mr Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u76	Vice-President, I am warning you and calling for you to begin to conduct the meeting as we have discussed the Rules of Procedure and that if someone discusses irreverently to interrupt it, and if they do not stick to the topic of warning and interrupting it. You did not do this despite a loud and clear warning. And I also advise my colleague Rebersch to first look at who created this hole. Bell 1, Bell 1, T-2, Vegrad, these are all parties close to your political option, your client people. And if he asks who will pay for it, then let him ask his members who created this hole and those poofs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Reich, I fully agree with your procedural proposal, but this must also apply to you. To stick to Article 75, paragraph 2. What does today's debate about Vegrad have to do with this? Please, let's be respectful. First it's a replica, Natasha Sukich. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] No, no, no. First, it's a replica. If you leave, we'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. As a co-proposer, I would just like to say to the Slovenian public that what Alexander Reberšek was doing was in no way a performance for the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I apologize to Lady Lydia. She was in front of you. Here you go, Mrs. Lydia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Apology accepted. Yes, now, Mr Reberšek, as Franjo has just said, has not learned any populism. Now, what did his debate have to do with the STA and the kindergarten and all that? Yeah, it's just that in these kindergartens, when they open up, you report, Mr. Reberšek. But the rest was just one pure populism in your style. That is, of course, legitimately, but it's completely over, because you don't have a single statement and an argument against what we've been talking about for two days. That is why, of course, you use the winged “this government works well”, “this government works for cameras”. Oh, and that's why you're arguing? Because you don't report on the character and the work of the Supreme and those of your boyfriends who stand up and believe? By the way, it's not "it's about this" but it's "it's about this". Just like that, by the way. Now, what does this government actually do? Now I'm going to list that, that good work of yours. This government despises people, calls them pigs, pearls, and even ugly words that I will not even repeat, sprinkles people with tear gas and water cannon. That's what this government is doing-- destroying the foundations of this country, but I'm going to say more about it. So if I were you, I'd be really quiet, really quiet, and I wouldn't be as populism as you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Now she has a replica of Mrs. Sukič to Mr. Rebersk.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u82	Yes, dear fellow Reberšek. You say "the situation in the country is the fault of the Left". So you admit the situation is bad? It's catastrophic. It's true. You continue to say that our session is intended to divert attention from the right things and that the pyar action. Really? What you've been doing has been the most amazing pear pamphlet I've heard in recent days. You talked about everything, just the problem. But to ask ourselves what is going to happen to hundreds of employees and what is going to happen to their families that you yearn for, nothing from Christian Democrat Alexander Rebersk.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u83	Don't insult me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u84	What, then, did our distinguished Member ask himself? He was wondering about the director's salary. Which, in fact, has already resigned, but still, not even a cent has been pointed at the STA. Look at the fragment. The director's already stepped down. There's still no money. And let our great honourable Member Rebecca explain this to me. So that we have just received a new gas canister to the head from you, my respectable colleague, so that you can create a smoke screen and hide behind it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. He next has the floor to propose, Mr Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u86	Yes, thank you, Vice President. I would suggest to Mr Rebersk that he obtain himself a large pan to which he will be able to hang all the achievements of his ministerial colleagues. But you forgot something else. You have forgotten how financially through the Ministry of Defence is financed by, say, media or portals in orbit of your ministers. You've forgotten how you from Ukom funded Novo24, you've forgotten how it's going to be an e-vignette campaign from the Ministry of Infrastructure, an amazing amount of money for something that we're actually all going to have to buy. So let me tell you these things when you brag about the work of your three ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u87	Now, Mrs. Masha Kociper has the word, get ready for the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u88	Thank you very much. This debate on STA has been a long time and many things have already been said. Of course, as every medical debate requires a certain effort, it is necessary to review the materials, it is necessary to know the subject, it is necessary to learn a little, it is necessary to read the judgment. The potential of Members is different. I do not want to be offensive, but it is clear who are Members of Parliament who are preparing themselves, who look at the materials that are discussing the content, who can say something substantive. But it is known who are the ones whose potential reaches cheap [[?]] , a populist reference to a couple of sentences learned from couples who may now be trained in other functions, someone who obviously does not understand the meaning of this session, does not understand that if after all these warnings the STA will not receive payment, the STA will no longer be. There will no longer be our press agency, the Slovenian Press Agency, which was created as part of our statehood 30 years ago. There will not be all the knowledge that has gathered there in these years under this brand. There'll be no brand. And when someone who doesn't understand this concept and who thinks it's just a performance for the public [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] He's not capable of looking at it, and then he runs into the bargaining tables, the populism, and the insults of everyone on the list. That's the easiest thing to do. You don't even have to read the material. There is no need to read the Supreme Court judgment. Why would a man deal with the Supreme Court's judgment if he could come to the meeting, and at every session, whatever the subject of the same 10 sentences he spits, he goes. Perhaps he should ask himself if he deserves a Member's salary for such work, because something else is 10 of the same sentences to repeat for 4 years and something else to discuss substantively for each topic. And this topic has, of course, been discussed many times, and today it has been discussed precisely for this reason, which I said earlier, because for a period of time this Slovenian Press Agency could still finance the work of journalists, it was possible from the market part of the programme to patch up this hole, and by collecting the same one that the previous Member felt so lenient, it financed the work of people working for the country and for the public and then comes to some point. And this point, right now, is getting closer. And that's why this session is because now all the funds are gone and the reserves are gone and the text is gone. And once the STA is gone, there can be no other more reasonable government in three months, one that understands what a national press agency is, who understands what a brand is, what is knowledge, what is a “know how” and how to create a new one. You can't. It's some intellectual knowledge, some concept that's gone and gone. And then you have a level that doesn't mean that I'm not gonna be the one with the names and names of the reporters who wanted to go to some national press agency, and they got into a fight before three sentences with the right ones were able to write. So I wouldn't say it's a diversion. I'd say it's a very relevant last cry for help. And when I'm sitting here all day and yesterday there's been a board meeting, I don't know how many hours, I'm asking myself, but we know that we're not going to move Janez Janša at this point, but at the same time we know that it's our job, our duty, so we're paid to point out that there's really no money now and that we're asking you to give money and that we're going to warn you for the hundredth time that there's a legal basis. This is our job, this is what we can do by law and the Constitution, and in all legal states and everywhere in the world, when there is some dispute about what needs to be paid or not, and perhaps whether there is a legal basis or not, we have been in civil society for centuries now, a court. And if the Government thinks that the legal basis does not exist for the reasons “t, t, t”, and we also think that the legal basis exists, these two arguments, various arguments, are faced in a court of law and the court does not then rule through the finger, but it seems to us that Mrs State Secretary is more convincing than Member of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia, but looks at all the parameters and this same court, not the same, beware, the highest court, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has stated on this subject, they have confirmed the position of the State, which also says that even if the annual contract for 2021 is not concluded, public services are paid in accordance with the 7th Anti-Corona law. [[…]] So, even in a dispute, between the different interpretations of the legal basis, which we have now, just before that extraordinary speech, the court has decided and, as always, has cut and said, so. Then what are we going to do? I deal with mediation in my life. This is a situation where two parties in a dispute think that each one is right and then I through a conversation with them, through a dialogue where each of their facts points out, our arguments, we try to find a middle solution and use techniques and I go through the phases of mediation, I use the technique of so-called reality testing, because we are testing the reality of the expectations of each party, because each party usually sees only its own right and only its own part of the story and then sometimes we agree. But when we do not, when we do not, we have the highest possible way in this civilization, where there is always a conflict, even if there is no agreement, resolve it, and this is a court of law. And in this case, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has said that payment must be made, irrespective of the contract concluded, on the basis of the act against the Crown Act. And this is where the problem starts, because in real life, most people pay then and if not, it goes to execution. Here, however, we have the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not want to pay and does not want to pay for so long that it has brought things so far that there is now no reservation. No more reserves. It's not just about 100 people without a job, it's about getting back into the previous state, once that happens, it's impossible, and then we're gonna start establishing a new press agency, or are we gonna be without it? Will those previously mentioned “journalists” write anything there when they have time? Or you will re-establish this as the beginning of the world, just as you try everything else. And when I listened to the reprimanded statement of the representatives of the STA yesterday, I thought, yes, I understand that they've been contacted, they don't understand that there's really nothing left to do, given what happened. We are invited to do something, but we Members, who want to save, no longer have legal remedies and legal remedies, as if we were to exclaim and argue here, and stress that it is necessary to pay and then some Members of Parliament question themselves responsibly, then people must respect the laws if the Government does not. That's what we came up with. We've all analyzed why this happened. I wondered at the outset why agency work, short news, non-ideologically without any political indication seemed to me always the most correct news outlet, which is doing exactly as the law provides and certainly. What's the matter with anyone? How can the President of the Government be so disturbed that he goes to the total front for the whole country and even the European Union on this issue? But yes, because you replied to the others, because we responded through this debate also this part of the media space needs to be influenced. However, because someone wanted to control how many words and how many interviews and who would be done, although the law clearly defined the independence and independence of STA in this sense of journalistic freedom. People out there find it hard to understand that I don't sometimes know what Parliament is, what the Government is, because I don't blame them, but all they do is tell them that they have to pay. Look, we've put 100 questions to the press ministers, I don't know how many urgent meetings, press conferences now we've called the last thing we're asking to pay for, but they don't, they don't, and that's what's frustrating me. What do you do when those who should be concerned about legality, constitutionality, respect for the rule of law do not respect it? Then one says that people say one Member now people will ask themselves whether to respect the laws I hope the disrespected people, the respected citizens hope that we will all prove that we are better than the government of Janez Janša and that we respect the laws and the Constitution and some democratic order that we have been able to establish in this country and on which we live in a peaceful and orderly manner. At the same time, we must not give up in demanding that laws be respected even by those who are in politics and so on, that we have this power to bring the government forward. It's over. I know it is difficult to be in some position of someone who advocates a situation that is not even there of his choice, but this by searching for the truth, a respected secretary of state, if the truth is sometimes subjective, tells you what is right and what needs to be done in different ways, the court and the court told you exactly and this Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u90	Thank you very much. It has been pointed out on several occasions that it is the responsibility of the Government to provide or to pay already on the basis of the Business Plan adopted by the State for 2021. He's holding the Supervisory Board. He's 18. 12. 2020 adopted the SOTA business plan for 2021, but let's now see what this business plan contains. In the Business Plan, the STA merely states that the plan should show that it requires at least a level amount at 2020 for the functioning of the public service. This is 2,028 million euros, you can read on the 23rd page of business plan 2021. This is not more detailed than the number of notes, the value of this particular service and so on. There is not even very thorough substantive justification. The monthly requirement of EUR 169 000 is therefore one-sided as twelve, on its part only, a certain compensation for the management of the public service in 2021, but neither the STA Act nor the other acts provide that the annual amount intended for the provision of the public service of the STA should be divided into twelfths in the same amount. Therefore, you must understand that the founder could not agree to a flat-rate distribution of the amount at the same twelve-speed rate of the actual calculation of the services performed. I think that we all agree here that this would mean the untransparent use of public finances. When you mentioned the court. District court and execution, possibility of execution. In the insurance process, the District Court in Ljubljana rejected a proposal by the State to issue a provisional order for the insurance of a financial claim, EUR 169 000. What's written, I quote. The provisional order shall not be admissible for the defendant to impose the same payment as the applicant by way of an action, as that would prejudge the court’s decisions on the case without the need to carry out a contradictory procedure. Thus, according to the laws, it had to verify the eligibility of the proposed payment of the funds so proposed. Whether the public service has been performed to the extent that it is carried out and the monthly amount of compensation for the management of the public service is calculated on the basis of this. The Economic Public Services Act provides that the Republic of Slovenia provides certain public goods, products and services to meet public needs with public services. In providing public goods, profit-making is subordinated to meeting public needs. Economic public services are carried out within the framework of directors' brothers, in a public economic institution with concessions and in a public undertaking. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall prescribe the manner in which the economic public service is performed by regulation. The rights of the founder within a public undertaking providing public goods include, inter alia, the establishment of specific conditions for the conduct of activities and the provision and use of public goods and the decision on prices or tariffs for the use of public goods. Each product or service, irrespective of whether it is public goods or goods sold freely on the market, has its own cost of production and its price at which it is sold on the market or the price for which it is paid from the State budget. The goods created by STA must also have such a cost, as well as a price per unit of product or service, in the framework of either public service or on the market. Following the reasonable application of the Law on Economic Public Services, which provides in Article 26 of the right of the founder of a public undertaking to decide on prices or tariffs for the use of public goods, the right of the Republic of Slovenia, as the founder of the STA, to finance the public service from the State's resources, is the right of the Republic of Slovenia to know the cost of public service per unit of product. The right of the Republic of Slovenia to a precise definition of unit costs and price is an integral part of the social rights enjoyed by the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the STA. However, the Slovenian Press Agency has carried out a flat-rate evaluation of the unit costs of the product, which has been clearly demonstrated in the context of the coordination of the public service management contract for 2021. Only at the multiple request of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has STA submitted the cost of production per unit of product. Since this is the basis of an accounting standard, he expected the costs of individual public service elements to be clearly and unequivocally worked out. Unfortunately, it has been shown that the STA did not function in accordance with these accounting standards because they do not have clearly defined costs of individual elements of the public service. As a result, there was no answer as to why an individual element of the public service was set exactly that cost. That the costs of the primary public service provided by the UKOM to the STA are not based on real items was shown after the STA cost of preparing the whole news was determined in the same value as the cost of the summary of this same news. It was only after UKOM warned STA about this absurdity that the cost of preparing the whole news increased by one third, which UKOM also agreed to. Further absurdity in the assessment of the costs of the STA was demonstrated in the assessment of the costs of the summary of news in different categories. The cost of preparing a summary of the news for the radio media, where the summary usually covers three to four paragraphs, is estimated at 13.46 euros. The cost of a summary of the other news, usually covering only one paragraph, was estimated by STA at 16.35 euros. The basic precondition for any payment of public service compensation, I hope that we all agree, should be a precise and divided cost per unit of product and a specification showing the eligibility of the cost. Without these evidences and justifications, the State budget can not be paid, as it would be a violation of the rules and the legality of public money management. In this way, if I illustrate, anyone could write down his business plan that he needs 10 million for the next year, and the country should pay him 10 million. This is how we do not understand or interpret the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u91	We have a replica first. Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u92	Yes, Madam Secretary of State, you've read it well. As I understand you're not a lawyer, I don't have you because I feel any worse about you, obviously you don't understand things. You once again argued to me some argument, which probably the government was also in a court of law, which is completely irrelevant at the moment. We're talking about the legal basis for payment. In the dispute on the legal basis, the Supreme Court ruled that it was not the law to which you refer, but that we now have some kind of lex specialis, an anti-korona law which specifically stipulates that payments are necessary regardless of the contract. Either this or yes or no, or as many as the U.S. and the government can do, they're leaving because of me for another year. The founder and press agency should discuss this. What is very, very wrong is that in this year he rules someone who performs his job without giving a cent. And you say that it would probably be after twelve, as the STA apparently suggested, a violation of the Public Finance Act. Why are we using the budget after twelve when the new budget is not adopted? Because this is the fairest and most logical way to pay off. And if the government had little desire and good intentions not to want to destroy the STA, after twelve, if they did not otherwise pay, they would sit with them and coordinate the contract and the details of the contract and the details of what payment, for when, as a good master. But the master can't decide to destroy the horse, and then he'll go see if he ate too much or too little. And that's what you do. And since you're not a lawyer, I'll explain to you a purely temporary order. The wrong person, whoever invested it, filed it a little wrong legally. And the argument was true. You can't request a temporary order for the entire application. It's just a legal exercise, not a substantive decision. The Supreme Court has given you a substantive decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik wanted the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u94	Yes, thank you. Now in a dispute, the Supreme Court has ruled and this is substantive. STA’s business plans, also submitted or endorsed by the Supervisory Board. There are also “your” people. That is why I admire you, in fact, Madam Secretary of State, that you are looking for these differences, public and market activity, and price collectors and all, indeed, but this is really irrelevant in this debate. Anyway, it doesn't matter. I hope that common sense and legislation will be enforced in this case. Now, before that, I forgot to say one thing to Mr Rebersk, because he was so vehemently explaining that today what people are going to have here today. Since the vote would not even be voted on, he said. Now, we are not voting on anything today just because the Christian Democrats voted against today's decision to end the financial exhaustion of the STA. So yesterday, Christian Democrats voted against, as of course, the SDS. The SMC abstained yesterday because they were probably too ashamed because they themselves filed this law. That is why today we are not voting on anything that he has troubled. Now, I believe that Mr Reberšek knows the procedures and that only one such populism has actually happened to him. But if he doesn't know them, then I'm worried about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Branislav Rajić, prepare Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today, 84 days are shared by this black anniversary when the government began to exhaust STA with the goal of finishing it, and somehow by the model of this hostile takeover. All in all, this renewed or renewed debate today shows that what has been happening to the STA in the last nine months, that it is not only our disgrace, it is a national disgrace. And not because the entire agency stayed and became a hostage of political self-restraints, but because they were kidnapped in the same way and by the same hoof, if you want, their families and, worst of all, the whole society that began to realize where it was taking us all. And all of this is because of someone who in every way wanted to have hostages, because in the blindness and madness of his indiscretion, he doesn't want to understand that it's not just the sky over them or him, it's the laws and the legal states. So the authoritarian mind of those who do not submit to it obviously does not allow or act, neither does it afford to exist. And journalists, when they can no longer be service agents, must then be silenced, put to sleep, removed. Therefore, the current Slovenian government prefers to put the Slovenian Press Agency in bankruptcy rather than to tolerate professional journalism, which is, of course, totally contrary to literature by reason of origin, as it appears in some media owned by the rulings. Much has been said today about this Supreme Court decision regarding the financing of the STA. And I will only add that she is unequivocal, that the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to finance the monthly Slovenian Press Agency and Point. We don't have anything else to add here. Lawyers have told their own. And in a way, I see that the secretary of state, with all due respect, and also colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, trying to draw some arguments for hair, are looking for things that are not comparable to what the Slovenian Press Agency means and how normal it is to be financed, as the court has also confirmed that this reminds me of the situation, as if one hotel manager was trying to justify why one cupcake in one hotel would not get paid, for example, because it did not specify how much vanilla sugar is spent on cream. And now we're here in some way, if I have to perform with these images at all, but it seems to me that after hundreds of times I don't know how to explain that, at least I'm asking you to stop spending this same thing because it doesn't, it really doesn't make sense. Okay, you don't want to admit the right to finance, but let's not get blinded because you're actually getting ridiculous with this. And in order to understand judicial decisions, it is necessary to read more than just the first 2 sentences and then, in some, for example, Trump style, declare this node, which is surrounded by exclusive political marketing, which, of course, has the opportunity to be heard, but it does not need to be supported in this temple of democracy. Today it is particularly clear or again how important it was that we today were not bound to a Member, and at the time of the PKP 7 vote, we insisted on an amendment to the Slovenian Press Agency, because this decision is now relevant to the decisions already issued and it is very likely that this decision will not end up being a meridian for all coming, because this law is approved in this National Assembly and, see, at the time of this Government, it is confirmed or stated that the funds for the Slovenian Press Agency are provided without exception. But as we can see, the government avoids following the law and at the same time swearing and swearing to the rule of law, because justice is justice when it suits us, except when we call it criminal justice. And what is even more paradoxical is that it is truly hypocritical to ask the Western Balkan countries to meet their conditions with regard to the rule of law and democratic standards, when the Prime Minister of our country – and let us not forget that Slovenia has been the best example for all these countries so far – when our Prime Minister does not want to do so, while he advocates that we demand it as Europe does for others. So we are witnessing that the Prime Minister, to his impatience with objective reporting, which is the result of which he punishes an objective medium, has also left Director Ukom to experience some personal vendetta over a breakup with the STA once. And this frowning began in the form of sadistic discipline and subordination. The Slovenian Press Agency is an institution directly linked to the independence of Slovenia. And that's what the Prime Minister, as out of the blue, a very passionate patriot, should understand. I should, I mean, the Slovenian Press Agency, number it, defend it and support it, but not rape it, and because love somehow doesn't show it, it has to die. It's a really sad theme for the Grimm brother, but she's more into Grimm's brothers and sisters. And this apparent concern about the nation's property, as expressed by members of the coalition, is actually funny with these few double payments for photographs, with all this employment on new, hundreds of new, promising pledges of devotion, for re-employment from the client's basement to the cabinet of the government, with an unknown 250,000 euros on travel tickets paid for we don't know any service. All of this also needs to be reconsidered when we beat ourselves in the chest and take care of the nation’s property, because this property flows through one another’s channels much, much faster and in much larger quantities, and much more damage. I must say that with a great deal of compassion I am observing today, as well as yesterday's Secretary of State, how can I defend what he is defending and how he is trying to bypass important facts in some way to highlight some minority before I had the parable with this unfortunate pastry and vanilla sugar and colleague Trček gave a good point of interest or not now it is no matter that this mythological motive of Ifigenia has become the syndrome of Iphigenia which is sacrificing it is tragic indeed and I must say that this is not a lonely case. I do not now draw any more attention to the compulsory or urgent work of Mrs State Secretary have an example in our species as well. My former colleagues, although we were all very much in favour of STA’s support except for one case of SDS SMC’s hidden cell, remained silent for once. I know they don't feel that way in themselves, but some forces are much stronger and must be quiet or at least abstinence. The Slovenian Press Agency was created at a time when the policy was committed to finding consensus and when it set up new criteria, new decency, new reporting in the new country and today for this survival STA 30 years after it was established to survive one of the pillars of Slovenian autonomy, due to the psychopathological tendencies of the highest politicians we are collecting donations, and this is a great tragedy of our democracy, but the normal and rational part of Slovenian society has expressed a clear view that the Slovenian Press Agency is in a common good and works in the public interest, so we need to call again and again on the Government to immediately end the S.T.A. because it is an important attribute of statehood and this is, due to government conduct prior to bankruptcy. In which other European country the government has destroyed its national press agency. What do we really have to be first after that? Our Slovenian Press Agency, despite the court's rulings, is in spite of the importance it has in our society despite calls by the international community to disclose that it is a dictatorship and today, in one of the positions of the parliamentary groups, a nationalist says that it resents that it does not report much on the National Assembly and this is actually ironic, because it should also report on what it will remain remembered that it has proposed as a solution to every migrant coming. So it is better to keep quiet occasionally, because in the Middle Europe of the 21st century, it is not possible to close your eyes at the receptions they described centuries ago as the twilight of civilization. [[Incomprehensible]] Today, we do not all have to agree to any darkness except astronomical. STA represents the day of Slovenian democracy, free people who are not afraid of the repression of power with one mind, and will not save anything. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u97	The next debate is Ambassador Mojca Škrinjar, preparing Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The purpose of today's proposals is inappropriate and unfounded. The applicants have not read either the STA Act or the Public Finance Act or read the Slovenian Press Agency Management Regulation or read the Supreme Court judgment. Because if we did, there wouldn't be a meeting today or a board meeting yesterday. Actually, the thing is. Article 54 of the Law on Public Finance states, in the first paragraph, that any expenditure from the budget must be subject to an authentic bookkeeping instrument expressing the obligation to pay. The second paragraph, the legal basis and the level of the obligation arising from the authentic bookkeeping document must be verified and confirmed in writing before payment. So, we agree that the payment paid to the Slovenian Press Agency is not the allowance we give to the parents of the children, as much as we can and want and as much as they deserve, arbitrary, but it is a payment that must be based on a book charter. The regulation, therefore, this charter, may be a contract, may be a contract. I guess we agree that the government can't give a contract to the U.S.A., but it can be a contract. And this contract is mentioned in Article 4 of the Regulation, the annual contract. However, we know and report that the CAP has been adopted, which can be paid directly. It is true, but, again, it must be a bookkeeping document, it must be a price list, it must be a certain extent, because otherwise it does not respect the article that I just mentioned in the Law on Public Finances, i.e. the bookkeeping charter, and the height, and the obligations, on this charter. And if the annual contract is not concluded, this Regulation states in Article 7, if the annual contract for 2021 is not concluded, public service services shall be paid in accordance with the Law on Intervention Measures to Help to Endure the Second Wave of the Epidemic and this Regulation. Now, what does this regulation say about how it pays? This, however, is said in Article 2, where it refers to the type and extent of public service services. So, what is paid and related to Article 4 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act and says that these are summaries of news in the Slovenian language and so on, in English, texts of radio news, copyrighted photos, content, as referred to in paragraph 4, so that they are, the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency so that they are published [[…]] [[?]] in the special section on the STA website and so on. And it also says, in Article 2, that the annual business plan of the STA plans the scope of the public service and the scope of market activity. See, Article 2 shows the scope and type and, of course, it is necessary for this, if you have a type of service, then you must also have a price for this service. That means there must be a price list. Again, we are under Article 54 of the Public Finance Act. Well, it's not the allowance we give the kids, it's the payment on the basis of some bookkeeping document. And now, what did the STA do after the government issued this regulation? The Government, i.e. the STA, denied this regulation, went to court and the case ended by the Supreme Court saying its own judgment and dismissing the Court of First Instance. I mean, what does this judgment say? This judgment says, “materially legal [[?]] the conclusion of the Court of First Instance, which has granted the STA that it is temporary, is incorrect; and [[?]] the retention of the enforcement of the Regulation as it would otherwise be necessary, and if the defendant had not signed the annual contract, on the basis of the regulation, to lose payment of the public service compensation for the year 2021.’ [[Incomprehensible]] And the Supreme Court continues, first paragraph of Article 7 of the Regulation, I have just quoted it as explicitly providing for the payment of public service compensation, even if the annual contract for 2021 was not concluded on the basis of the reduction of the CAP and this regulation. As already referred to in Article 66, paragraph 3, it is clear that, irrespective of whether or not it has concluded a contract with the founder, the funds shall be provided from the budget for the Member States for the performance of the works in accordance with the business plan received for 2021. As soon as possible, however, it cannot be followed the position of the Court of First Instance that, in the event of a failure to retain the public service payment base for 2021, the claimant would be forced to sign a contract prepared in accordance with the following Regulation, even if the contract had not been concluded, to provide payment to the applicant. This is a judgment. Then he's saying it. The applicant, the STA, claimed in its request that it was in danger of bankruptcy because the defendants had not yet received any compensation for the management of the public service for 2021. However, the existing estate position of the claimant could be substantially improved by the enforcement regulation, says the Supreme Court, since the defendant is, on its basis, the government, however, has begun to pay compensation for the public service performed in 2021 and which is implicitly recognised by the applicant, or at least by reason of reason. While it is true that the applicant points out at the same time that the payment under the regulation ensures that the public service is properly financed, as would be the case with the business plan. However, this difference, the applicant does not specify at the level and it is not likely that the injury would be serious. In particular, the applicant does not explain, and it is even less likely to prove why this injury would be difficult to correct if there were actually a difference in the amount of compensation under the regulation and the business plan for it. See, from the judgment traces, here you have the regulation of the applicant STA, let me specify your data. And this particularisation is set out in Article 2. This means say the number of summaries, in English, Slovenian, number of photos, and tell the price. And they have to agree on that. Until they agree on it, then it would be a pocket. Of course, the Republic of Slovenia cannot pay the allowance. However, UKOM, of course, requires this specification, follows from the judgment itself, that it must do so, which has said nicely how to read these laws. However, let me also point out that, of course, the government will negotiate what it will pay, what it will pay, what it normally will pay, what it normally will talk about, because look, it is sad that the STA has written in coalition parties four thousand contributions and little less than 10,000 contributions about the KUL. And despite the fact that we're the president. In my foreign reports, I am learning more about our Presidency, and this is good news, than on my own televisions and on my own STAs. And you see, we also listened to what the government told us about what was coming and what they wanted to do now. The public and market share were not clearly separated, double charging the same service, which means you sell the photo to the state again, and once again you sell the same photo to the Dnevnik. That's not right. You can't do that. It's a crime. This is a crime. The charging of news and summaries and the photographs that should be free for users is said to be what the law requires STA to do free of charge, but it is not, but it was paid and that the proportional price was obvious. So it is probably one agreement or price list, if you want and the extent of the type of service already provided by the law and also by the regulation, the normal thing. Let Mr Veselinovich handle this and the funding will go up. That's all this is about. And here on the prangra, the government and the secretary of state, which you change your mind a little bit, on the other hand, you also teach those who do not have a degree in philosophy, then you salt it up a little. But still, look, she's listening to what Director Veselinovich is supposed to be listening to today. You really have to be mad at Director Veselinovich. I'm very sorry, but you really haven't read it, and now you're talking into it. And that's not going to work. The simple judgment of the Supreme Court puts you on a lie. It's not true what you made up, it's not true what's behind today's session, none of this is true. However, it is true that it can be evident to Director Veselinovich. He's bound to pay for his employees, he's obliged. And at least because he did, he could have given up because, in fact, this, he must have had a guilty conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u99	Microphone, Mrs. Boxer. Thank you. I'm Dr. Trcek's proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u100	Yeah, look, president, I'm a little confused right now. As it comes from what Mrs Škrinjar put it, it is obviously not true that we have a lex specialis talking about the STA, and it is obviously not true that we have a PKP7, which has Article 66. Now I don't know, I'd like to request the suspension of the session for one half hour, but to make it clear to me whether it exists or doesn't exist. Because, as Mrs. Boxer put it, it's not true. Then it doesn't exist or how? I mean, you're a lawyer, let me explain. I'm not a lawyer or a philosopher. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u101	Yeah, I got to admit, Dr. Duck, I'm not confused. I know that there is a PKP7, paragraph 66, and I know that there is a STA Act and that there is a Supreme Court decision that speaks very clearly in explanation about everything that we have been discussing all day. So I won't interrupt the session because it doesn't make sense. We will continue the debate. Would you like another word, Dr. Duck?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u102	Yes, thank you for solving my confusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u103	Please. Mrs. Lydia Divac Mirnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Now, the STA is now 281 days out of pay because one official has decided to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u105	Just a moment, Mrs. Lydia Divac Mirnik. If you turn it off because your time is miscalculated. Time may come from the quota of the LMŠ Group. We'll fix it now. Here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Yes, now public service funding is not a matter of discretion nor is it a reflection of the good will of the government, but it is its legal duty. So the STA is a financial obligation of the government. It doesn't matter if the Prime Minister gets very upset and if the Urbani official has some personal resentment, frustration or whatever he was doing when he was working there or whatever someone was doing there while he was working there. It's just a fact. Who, if not a government, is the first to respect the legal acts in force? Tina's talked about this before, about the rule of law, so I'm not going to say it again. The government, very simply, has been acting unlawfully for 281 days in the case of STA and is doing so intentionally and intentionally. It's a condition. Why is he doing this? Because of the objective of submission, of course, because the aim is to take over and, of course, to control information and to interpret it. Because they want to tell their truth, the only law because they want STA to become the trumpet of government. Which, of course, is completely wrong. The Government also takes the right to decide when and which laws it will respect, and even to act as an interpreter of laws and arbitration whose provisions apply to them and which do not apply to them. This is as far as LMŠ is concerned, unacceptable, dangerous work and leads to a breakdown of the state. Pika. The Supreme Court has now also substantiated and unequivocally stated that the Government is obliged to finance the public service under two laws, I repeat this for two days, under the STA and PKZ 7 Act, and funding must take place monthly. Now the STA Act is a lex specialis, so I was taught by lawyers, because of course it is not and PKP 7 says that the contract is not necessary. Pika. We've been honking that for a couple of months now. And today and yesterday we have listened to this so-called disputed business. The Secretary of State spoke about this, and some SDS members spoke about it. Now, I would have responded to them this way if the Government had assessed that the STA did not carry out some public service which would have been necessary under the law, of course, has all the opportunity to request a refund of the money for which it estimates that it did not use it for the public service. That's one option. And another possibility that the Government has in this case may, in the extreme case, also initiate a recovery action, but the Government has not done so, so these are arguments that are drawn from the five strands of the order like to be called. Now the STA also has a supervisory board, which has confirmed all the documents each year, including a final report not least. But, of course, nobody on this government cares. Non-funding of STA is unacceptable and interference with editorial policy is also unacceptable. For its own purposes, 18 people are actually destroying the foundations of this country. The rule of law, democracy is prohibited even by a referendum if we think of all those subsets in the CAP. And you know who these 18 people are that destroy this? I'll list them so people will know. John (John) Janša as Prime Minister of the Government. Dr. Restoring as Vice-President of this Government. Matthew Tonin as the second Vice-President of this Government, and then there are Anže Logar, Aleš Hojs, Andrej Šircel, Marijan Dikaucič, who is by the way the Justice Minister, Boštjan Koritnik, Janez Cigler King, Janez Poklukar, famous Simona Kustec, Jernej Vrtovec, Vasko Simoniti, Jože Podgoršek, Andrej Vizjak, Zvonko Černač, Helena Jaklič, who is very little to hear about and Mark Boris Adriančič. That's 18 people who, at night meetings, take weekends of decisions to terrorize citizens for a year and a half. And all of this is unconstitutional, of course, because all these decrees at these night sessions were known as they were known. And what's paradoxical? All the way they behave, rudely, arrogantly, ignoring the judgments of the courts, the calls of all those, from the opposition to the international activities that we call for them to stop doing this. What do these 18 people do? Oh, they're cheering on all of this. They're getting a little excited about all this. They prefer violence, water cannons, and tear gas. This is the answer to all of this when it comes to violations of the rule of law. Now, and these tatists, these 18, of course, are preaching to us about family, about honesty, about respect, about it being preached to us, and about it they are destroying as a roller coaster everything that is, of course, placed in a dam, everything that is not kimma and, of course, everything that is not subordinated, because that is what the STA is really about, about submission and submission and control. They want the STA to become a trumpet, and I sincerely hope that it will never be, because we have too many in this country, for it has sounded. Now the NSI does not help if they have entered into special contracts with the STA their ministers, as was said in their position. They still break two laws, even though they want to wash off their Christian soul by entering into these special agreements. And I'd say it wouldn't do them any good. Because even when they come before the face of the almighty, if I use their vocabulary, it won't do them any good. They'll still have to put down the bills. I don't know how they're going to argue that they didn't respect two laws, that they were trampling on human rights and freedoms, that they were violating the rights of employees in the U.S.A., that they were trying to subjugate the U.S.A. to make fun of people, telling them that pigs, shivers, prostitutes, and that's another beautiful dictionary that we get every day in this country, which we don't nominate, which is obviously being used by the government, which is also part of the NSI. In local terms, NSI – Christian Democrats make fun of people and make fun of the media. Well, even more interesting are the others. Even more interesting is the holding of the SMC, or the rest of that SMC, which remained in this national assembly. In fact, they paradoxically signed under the amendment of the PKP 7, then we supported it in the opposition and then the whole law went through. What is it now? Now they are violating it, and of course everyone should understand it now and draw some arguments from the scars about why this law is being violated. In other words, SMC behaves the way the coalition partner SDS tells us to. Why? To keep our wages. They're at least so wise today that they're not here. Yesterday, however, the whole day was quiet when we talked for six hours about this issue. I might just conclude that I won't be too long, and that I won't burn all the time, tell you what the public media really is. Public media are the ones holding the mirror of society and power. In Slovenia we should strengthen them, not destroy them. In fact, they should be respected because the fourth branch of power. And just for the record. I have worked very hard with the SO journalists, especially those who cover Maribor in my 16-year political career in Maribor. That's where honest, objective, good journalists work. And I wish my heart would stay that way. Because this government, too, thank God, is not eternal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Reploco has a MP, Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Look, Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik, you didn't understand me when I said it, and I'm going to say it again so you can understand, and there's someone else who might be having a similar discussion. It is the Supreme Court's judgment, here it is, it has a few pages, I really recommend you read it, which says that the regulation issued by the government is valid. If they do not conclude a partner under Article 4 of the Treaty, then Article 7 shall apply, where it is directly financed, but the actual judgment shall be as follows: “Although the claimant points out that the payment under the Regulation does not provide for adequate funding for the performance of the public service as it would have been in line with the business plan. However, the applicant does not specify this difference at the level and it is not likely that the injury would be serious.” So, the Supreme Court is traveling the STA to determine these costs. The type of service is clear, the pricelist has to be given and defined. And as I know, after the ruling of the Supreme Court, which was 2. 9. 2021, this is according to the PKP and all, the management of the STA reestablished communication with Ukom and began to discuss this price. Let me understand. That's all he needs to do is make a final price deal. As I understood the secretary of state, they're already on the verge of this. And you can't claim that the government is violating the rights of employees. The government has nothing to do with the employees directly there. The Executive Director of Veselinovic directly exercises these executive rights. He either breaks or he doesn't. And as I know, he's not violating rights right now because he's paying their wages. And if and I hope that this agreement will be signed as soon as possible, this price collector, this whole service, to which the Supreme Court also refers, then the U.S. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Get out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u109	We continue the debate. Dr. Franz Trček also has the floor from the quota of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u110	Yes, thank you, thank you very much for your word. Look, if the speech in front of me, honourable Member Mojca the Boxer listened to herself, she would quickly realize that she was denying herself, because you said everything would be fine, but, hop cefizl, a little too much KUL, a little too much Janez. That's not right, you said. And you still wouldn't be okay. You know what the problem is with STA for this logic of SDS and this coalition, I'm going to explain on one occasion. Yesterday, a member of Parliament's Parliament, Franz Trcek, discussed on the Committee on Culture and, in all this literal bullshit and heated state that we have in Slovenia, said somehow that I am afraid that what happened in England will happen to us. And I said in the language of the people that someone would protect a Member or a Member. And then you'll say, of course, that's how he went on, and I went on to say that it's probably my fault that Pojbichi talks to me in the hallways here in Parliament, and yours was written wrong, not by hikers, down the halls of DZ and probably by Miha Kordish. Now, if the STA were to be as it should be, it should report as follows: “The SD Member-in-Office Member-in-Office Member-in-Office Member-in-Office is threatening.” Fuck, I'm scared myself. “As it is known, words can quickly be translated into action and the loss of the Ducks can be understood as a direct call to brutal physical violence.” Thus, the STA should report that Mrs Mojca is pleased. Now, according to the same logic, when Prime Minister Hojs abuses the Bible's opportunity, Mother, I've already become a little "and they are and so" and says, on the one hand, you are pearls, on the other hand we are all pigs, it is much worse than the Member of the Duck, because piglets are usually converted into something. How dare Hoys threaten us, Christian Mother. And if you were to report the STA like that, then this would be balanced by Grimes. That's your problem. Let's stop pretending. We know how this whole story came about. That's another thing. What Mrs Ignacio, who acts like Ifigenia, somehow means some calling the STA, I don't know, to some workshop because she works nails, part of a type of nails. But you know, I'm afraid work is not as easy to evaluate. Let's say yesterday the urban bureaucrat wanted to read some sort of lab. And this elaborate is to be summed up. And if you were to make a summary out of that scoundrel, my logic would make it more pennies than all those scoundrels. The sessions last a different length of time. Now I would like to ask the Secretary of State what her unit is, which is at stake. You pour Ljubljana with a tear gas, you pour it into the water water cannon, and photojournalists of the STA have to be there, usually they are and take photos. But the price of this photo is the same as the price of the photo when walking, I don't know, Minister Vrtovac set up what he opened, even though we know that infrastructure projects in Slovenia are dragged after 15-20 years and could be praised by some government, it is unlikely that any minister of any government has already died who was in some government when this started. This is Bane's good principles not with all due respect for sugar or I don't know the suburban movement that is in violation of the National Assembly because they don't do it the way they should do it in terms of dimensions and everything else. [[Incomprehensible]] We could talk about the STA at another sitting, and something that might bother you at STA is actually doing you a favor. Sometimes we break up here, and we don't even have a summary, and I don't blame them. Every fly poop, not to say the farts of Twitte John Janša, then we should somehow get smaller than you from SDS and not do it of course not. Here is now some great story about Veselinović up and down we are a legislative body, an integral part of our work is also to watch whether or not legislation is being implemented. I asked the president if there was a lex specialis. At that time, Members and Members of the SMC, with one exception, have overcome some more shame and have then made those amendments in the PKP 7, which you, after all, would not have accepted in the PKP 7, if that bothered you at that time. She made it very clear that the Law-Legal Service does not want to say in Slovenian the branch of authority in which the 18 state secretaries and others are appointed executive. They're doing what we accept here. Of course, some of this node slit was then adopted by that amendment and it pays and it is, then it can essentially go back to looking whether it's too much or too little. Personally, I think that it is too little, personally, that the STA would need even more money, so that journalists and journalists and others working there would have better wages for demanding work, so that it would be even better service in this area in particular, in which our former secretary of state, who is drunk driving on the bond, would like to teach about digitisation, but it is a topic for another substantive discussion about and around the STA. We are simply talking here about the fact that this Government in this National Assembly has adopted a law for which a large majority or all of these coalitions do not implement and here we have a problem. At the same time, we already have a fourth wave of pandemic bile again and instead of UKOM also dealing with STA and experts because we are probably world champions in Brazil after the idiocy of communicating how to pedal the epidemic we have this dramalette STA. Yesterday we have a meeting again and yesterday is the World Day of Decent Work of the Bricker King there sincerely some sacred fruit may also honestly infect the institution again and 280 days almost 100 people have no wages and then the SDS Member says well, because they do not have any wages. We are the custodians of the budget. The National Assembly will accept essentially we will not give to the Government, we will lower that item, we will make a rebalancing we can put it in and we will say basically because you have mushrooms and savings go into the forest of the mushroom to gloat. That's how you act and then you're going to bang on the chest like you're Christian Democrats, and as for the children and as for the families and as for the demographics, the coat will be put on the shoulders of the lady and she'll be talking about the mothers of single mothers. Who are you kidding, who are you kidding? You send them there, then I don't know a lot of inspectors, like Sookie said before. I don't know when you're gonna send a bunch of inspectors to UKOM. When will you send a number of inspectors to the government secretariat to see what has been done for the gentleman there, what is already, Božota, and also after his departure, if you are concerned about the transparency of the finances? And then the secretary of state comes to me and says it's the government's wish. You've all heard that. And what the government's lynching is, every government has to take serious care of public finances. Now it doesn't matter what one of us studied, what one of us finished. And in fact Lydia numbered 18 people, in fact it is necessary to list here how many are now, someone is bewildered, someone is not there, and I want a good recovery from the disease to be as successful as possible, a circus of one 45 people sitting in this room is mostly absent now, holding the stand to it. And in violation of the introduction, in fact, Article 1 of the Constitution, Article 2 of the Constitution and so on, so that I do not list everything, I could probably count to you at least a third of the articles of the Constitution that you are violating. And unpaid work is modern slavery, so let's stop blinding ourselves here. And then there'll be government scaffolds, I can't tell you anything else, snorting about the rule of law. And then some of SDS's most calm members will be talking about how we should respect this lady, who is being treated to all of us, as we say at the Styrian end, as if we were. [[Incomprehensible]] Respecting Vask Simoniti, who said what to Meiri that you were mentally retarded? Respecting Hoiss, who was thrown out of NSI for what he's doing, and now he's being held up. You know, and then here's the finger in these unhappy DeSUS uncles, and then there's the scribbling of the SMC. No, where is Aco now, it's NSI's fault. What kind of Christian Democrats are you, please? And colleague Alexander, now he's escaped, in fact, I wanted to tell him, because now I see that Tonin is saying that maybe they'll still be early elections, a little bit provoked yesterday about this, I have to admit to step to the gent, there's a beautiful capital of St. Bava, there's a vanajka Jan and Huber, a so-called famous genetic altar or so-called worship of a mystical lamb. It's one of those more beautiful altars, three-wing, something so very complex, it's going to be a good job, because that's how I kind of introduce myself then that it's going to look like a pre-election poster of NSI, and there's probably going to be a ton of some dog bomb metal out there, and when they say that they have nothing to do with it, what we've been looking at for a year and a half. Now the reason I broke up with Levi was when you remember March 13th last year when I called Janša to reason. The crowds didn't understand a little bit, but Matthew can say, you know, I was right, I knew it would be at least half as crazy as it is right now, but I was hoping that it would only be half as crazy as it is right now, I knew that there would be a negative workforce, that there would be scarab people coming into positions, but I really didn't hope that we would get into this situation, that we'd have a slave relationship for as long as, three-quarters of a year. Of the people from the STA who you will not pay because you cannot be assessed at the level of the sugar staves, even though all the books have been opened to you, although Veselinovic has finally resigned, you expect them to follow each dog procession to you how they should evaluate their work when Hojs goes as minister somewhere, and then remember a little while longer that he will be jumping at that location. This should be assessed in advance by Mrs Ignacio's unit of product. And then Mrs. Mojca talks about the allowance. Yes, then in such a way, respected Mojc, neither in education nor in scientific research, could we pay anything in advance. Then we couldn't have a paycheck, neither could you as a teacher and a principal. We don't know what our result will be. We don't even know what we're going to find out when we're going to do our research, unless we're sold in a party or otherwise. That's what you're gloating about right now. And you're so crazy about the transparency of your finances. But when you used to be a fellow Member of Potočnik and Jelka there on the trade reserves and a Cossack bull on the phone, like the whistles said when there were the extensions of the company where Tonin's mother happened to be at 15, 16 million, 30 million price of almost 100 percent profit when Restoration, when we were there for the hours and hours, then showed up and said "the company is working with profit," oh, look at it, you weren't worried about public finances, were you? And when it comes to some firm, I don't know, the nephews and nieces of the Prime Minister make a little business for ties, towers and so on, and you're not worried about public finances. No, what's to be killed, and then she'll come, what, the National Press Agency, which will be global. And in the beginning, you had these go back to more right-wing intellectuals, and basically, what was more, the president of the State Council was in that riot, and then someone realized there or thought Hoys was not Hoys, and he said he was a fascist. Oops, then you were a little embarrassed. Now, we're going to survive this, I mean, Slovenia has survived much the same or worse, and I hope we learn from this. And I hope, even if he flushes me off to the junkyard of political history, to flush out those who do and what people on Twitter call a flutter. One of these guys is probably gonna report for replica right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Yes, the replica came from Mrs. Shriner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u112	I was mentioned. Look, first of all, I'm not gibberishing, but it's nice to think so. It's a beautiful Slovenian language, but maybe it really sticks like a brook when you mentioned some of the streams. Not that, of course, everything goes just like that without the bookkeeping documents. Not even in school. In education you have the law first, then you have the norms and standards, based on the standards and standards, systemization is made, and from systemization you have a human-pay information system where wages are calculated for employees in primary school, and in secondary school according to the methodology for setting these standards and standards or implementing standards and standards, and there is a principal. Well, then accounting calculates wages based on salary law, systematization, as I said, and also collective agreements. And it's all got some ledgers. Material costs, as well as your college was funded, are also determined by another article of the law, in secondary schools and in primary schools there is something else and in higher education there is another. And it's too bad I'm quoting your articles because this is the Spanish village for you. But I'll say it one more time. This judgment of the Supreme Court is important. Let me understand. This Supreme Court ruling said, "What, the plaintiff, you have a regulation, this is your lifeline. And if you demand the restraint of this regulation, you cut down the branch you're sitting on. And in this Regulation there is Article 4 where you conclude a contract. However, if you do not wish to do so, you will follow Article 66, and then you will conclude, and after Article 7, it will be financed. But it has to be financed to the extent. In the 17th point, he says: “but this difference is the applicant’s”, that is STA, “he does not specify by height”. So he says it's not in line with the business plan, you understand? [[sign for the end of the debate]] You can't say, yes, we need money. Yeah, how much, say how much? Yeah, we don't know. We need him. We need him. That's not the way. [[background advertising]] Then it's the allowance. It's a stubborn kid who's got a problem with his mom. I need ice cream. No, that's not how it works. Tell me what you're going to do, what you're going to do, what you're going to do, what you're going to do, what you're going to do by law, how much this is going to cost, and we're going to pay you and this regulation says. And the Supreme Court's judgment, let me read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u113	Proposaler Dr. Franz Ducky. Since it was a replica, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u114	Look, replica yes, Spanish village. I was literally born in a teacher’s home at Zila’s branch school. I also survived on the FDV because they needed someone who had to count on how to put the salary together, thirdly, Matthew can also say, one of the main secrets of higher education, which higher education Mandarins don't want to tell you what systematizations are, for me it's the Spanish village. Please, I've been in school 45 years since my first sigh. My dad used to do a double-dick in elementary school, but you know, this afternoon, he wrote on my hands at the time, and now some Mojca comes and says, this is the Spanish village for you. One, this is a typical example of you. But the propo yes, but what you are now saying in the end, then you and I should not only vote against the Slovenian Health Infrastructure Financing Act, where it is done through the thumb. We want it, we want it so much, we don't even know where we're going to secure it. Wasn't that the problem there? Oh, look at the fragment, but what is it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Andrej Reich, get ready, Mr. Janez Moskritch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u116	Nice greetings for me, too! I think today is actually a sad day, because we obviously don't understand each other. The Slovenian Press Agency has a certified annual work plan and therefore it is known what it is working on and which obligations it must carry out, and this has also been confirmed by the Supervisory Committee, which is the company of which the owner also has management rights. However, the law clearly states that, on the basis of this plan and obligation, it is necessary to finance this, and therefore, it is one move and a desire to control the business, the influence of the company. Remember, this morning, we had a very similar point on the Commission to oversee public finances, i.e. the influence of the Government and the policy of human resources, and in this case, politics employs in another way, but it's someone else's money, and, of course, this blackmail is a humiliation, and if you don't give them 280 days, 281 days of money for the compulsory service that he does and says, because it's not my fault, it's the director's fault that he can't pay the workers if he can't give the government, it's one misappropriation. So the STA does the job, monitors the Slovenian Presidency, monitors the events in Parliament, monitors the functioning of the Government, monitors other events in Slovenia, which are in the public interest and now says that, so the government says it does not have to pay. When a journalist of the Slovenian Press Agency goes to a government conference and reports on it, he has done his job, or else the Government should prevent him from attending this conference or from granting him accreditation. The same in this respect with regard to the Presidency. If I believe that this is unjustifiable for them to get paid, then let them prohibit them from going to a meeting of the Council of the European Union so as not to go to the Hill. Why were they present at all these meetings? You know, that's one thing, that's one such diversion, that's rude, that's nothing less than the non-professional recruitment that we've dealt with at a meeting of the Commission this morning, that's the committee, the Commission for Public Finance Control, and we can see that this story is simply repeating itself. And in this sense, the government does not entitle, but does not give money for the work done. This is even worse because it endangers, directly endangers the existence and existence of this company, the existence of more than a hundred families, the existence and, of course, this is not a good journey. Once you're in bankruptcy, you can't wake him up again. And the government knows that. However, in this way he wants to subordinate the media and control or standardize how many articles someone will write, produce, you know, and this is also very unusual. Imagine that someone would say now, but you must, this journalist who is usually in the National Assembly, who has to write 50 articles a day about the event of the National Assembly, about the event of the National Assembly. What do you want me to write? Or 70 chapters. That it is such a norm and that Ukuk is a censor, even telling what is good for the article, and what is worse. You know, we're discussing this today, and that's what Ukom really wants to do, so bring the whole system into line. And for us, of course, this is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Muskrich isn't here. [[…]] Here you go. You have the floor. You're up for a debate. The next one is Mr. Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Before I begin my contribution, I would like to point out that, despite the fact that we have spent so much time together, we continue to remain culturally, because yesterday, what happened on the committee yesterday, that I was very insulted or I think that they were used by a man who has a doctorate, such statements that they are not suitable for the inn, just for the National Assembly. So try today, especially the contribution will be to those who listen, to those who will read and to the journalists who will summarise. But we have already found that it is very difficult to hear from each other in this darkness. Look, the president wrote in her report or some of my words were presented. In the end, she added them to each other, even though it does not say what she said in this report. Among other things, I have said that there is no objective reporting in the country, as certain information is not available to people. It's written down. A sentence is written down, and that STA was abducted by a deep state. In particular, I have given specific information, such as how important family values and the rest are, and what some of you have gathered today. SE says, if I continue where this report ends, in the sense of a deep state, I can say that really those voters, if I have the voters of the Slovenian Democratic Party and all the inhabitants of Slovenia behind me, is a very important sentence: let's stop the right. Before anyone in this National Assembly asked himself or said publicly, let's stop this left so that we don't break the whole country like I am now, there was a sentence in this country: let's stop the right hand. It is said that this is happening throughout the entire history of our beloved Slovenia, that it always wants to stop the right. You can't do that at the polls. Elections are a democratic process. However, it has tried at all other levels, including through the educational process and also through the media. I will tell you one very personal thesis that I said before I ran for the Slovenian Democratic Party. That certain journalists, by their actions in this Slovenia, have caused more damage in their way of contributing to the country than many others, or the worst or very bad politicians of the lion or the right, because the media has very much power, and that is what can be said to be the problem with the unjust by unrealitying reporting, because for every word that I say in this House or on the committees, then hold to the word with unreality reporting or the entrenched among people, we can create a great deal of confusion, but above all the resentment that can exhale in protests. See the example of a million times in this National Assembly of the thesis “weak communication of this government is a condition, for us to have poor, say, severing” that is also summed up by the journalists of the U.S.A. This information was recorded in memory and taken as the truth. No one has done an analysis of how other countries have communicated, no journalist has done a comparison or there have been few comparisons of how other countries communicate, if I say the STA, but the information given by politicians and then it is summarised, then poor communication, bad communication. Look, when a person is sick, communication doesn't help him. It just helps him as much as possible. So we are with the Slovenian Press Agency, which I said was through the director and not through the press for a while at work, I will say so in the service of those who help to overthrow this Government. Why am I talking like that? Why are they so hard? See, the Slovenian Press Agency is an economic company of 100% owned by the Republic of Slovenia. It was established by noble acts at the beginning of the independence and also its purpose is to properly, timely information to the Slovenian public in connection with the state authorities. The second part, because it is an economic company, is also a real market activity. When the State received the new Government and the new director of UKOM (the Communications Office), which existed before this office was not established by this Government only the Director was new to the composition of this Government, they tried, on the basis of a contract already adopted, to obtain certain information already signed in 2020, which goes under the law and under the contract. It is difficult to listen to some Members who speak UKOM and cannot ask what is involved in the market activity. Look, this is 100% owned by the state. We Members have also dealt with the reports, and that public part has always been more well-founded, but we should also have the whole picture, and in certain cases we have had it as far as finance is concerned. To get back to what I said yesterday. In this, however, the Director saw his opportunity - exactly as he said - to strengthen this hidden relationship, which we representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, our electorate, who is more than 25, 26 here, we were therefore convinced that this reporting is not objective. However, this is difficult to prove because the general civilisation standard in Europe is free, and all journalists in Europe came from a democratic nest and therefore this is its branch of power, which has only a supervisory function, an intelligence function. Yes, that is the goal, this is the goal of every citizen of Europe and of me as well as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but unfortunately in Slovenia we are certain that this is not the case. Some of you are convinced that journalism is great, great. Of course, harder after the Slovenian Democratic Party, more subjective. And this is hard to prove sometimes to the wider European public when we talk about this context, what journalism means in Slovenia. However, the journalists employed at the Slovenian Press Agency are not at fault for the story he has taken and is taking her away, and for several months, it is said, the current director will be driving for a few days. He is obliged, he is obliged to lead a society, an economic society, like any other company that leads him. He has to make sure the employees have a job. How's this work going? To a large extent it is already defined by the tasks of the Slovenian Press Agency Act. Even a few additional burdens have been placed on him in the sense of English and translation into foreign languages since the time of this government. So, somehow, work is somehow assured, it doesn't have to work as hard as another company has to, but it still is, and it still has to establish order and worry about the functioning of this society. And this is where the project comes in when it comes to an obvious fight with the founder's representative. We've always, many times we've heard Ukom, Ukom. Ukom is a representative of the founder who performs certain tasks and is already in the previous government and will also be in this government. But for some, that wasn't enough. This government never said it would end the U.S.A., that it didn't like it, that it didn't need it. That's never been said. Just like she didn't say she didn't respect the S.A. Act, so she wouldn't respect it, so she wouldn't respect the S.A.P.R. 7. Even more so, the regulation has made every effort to make sure that everything is determined. What does the director do? However, when the dispute arose or the financing stopped, the Director used all other possible measures of the company, including the sale of claims, including the claim for rubble. Look, that's what citizens are supposed to understand. If the electricity is not paid by the citizen or, in particular, gas may, if it does not pay, the company that has a clear counter will say that this person and this person have not paid and will make quite a quick execution of the rubble. If everything were clear between the state and the company it established, the same would happen to Director Veselinovich. The Court would immediately make a rubdown on the state's account, just as it does on an individual citizen's account. However, since it is not obvious that this relationship will need to be regulated by the contract or on the basis of already well-known conclusions, this CAP 7 and the regulation could have been supplemented. Therefore, how is this contract, whether this contract is worse than it was before, I firmly believe that this contract is not worse because it was more money. However, there are certain ratios of rules that were previously unclear. And these relationships are here. See, the state's main payment of the STA is linked to this contract to Ukmi 176 or 167 thousand euros, slightly over 2 million throughout the year. In addition, the same State company charges additionally to certain government authorities. According to the ministries, they also have their contracts and agencies, so they get another 600 000 euros a year from that work. So these things will have to be settled because then the state is called UKOM over, as the state pays, is called the State for information and then gets, then the ministry, which is part of the state, every ministry, every agency is part of the state, and once again pays. So we have to settle this relationship and that's all we're asking all the time, since last year, from the Director to take care of it. If the director wasn't capable of organizing a team within his office, handing over this assignment, diligating this task to the team, and the team would talk, then he would just come and sign. But apparently the director was the one who encouraged this and our opposition was this wonderful starting point for one of the main attacks on this government. Now more is said about the STA problem, and the better it is for this opposition. But Slovenia isn't just the U.S.A. Slovenia is much more than the STA. And the U.S.A. will not fail, because apparently the director will also have to go out of there, the easiest way is to get him out of there two months before the end, and the employees also have an obvious very good connection within them, because their new director, says the editor, the responsible editor has been elected with a very large degree of support and let them collectively shape what still needs to be solved in relation to the country. And only this is the subject of this debate, which then came into the political debate of our opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u119	Yes, thank you very much. Proposaler, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u120	Thanks for not jumping in time for my friends. Dear colleague Janez, in fact, I've taken it pretty well from you, what Violeta isn't, you see how good I am, almost WHAT's yours. I'll paraphrase you. Slovenia is not only SDS. That's what you're having trouble with. Slovenia is not only SDS. And UKOM is not an exercise of interest in SDS. The more I listen to you today, the more you present what UKOM should be for you. And here's actually a problem. And you're doing some sort of thing on something purely different, such as the fact that legislation is not being implemented. And one more thing. I'll read a few names. Young Manhunt president, mag. Alexander Rigličar Vice President, Jure Brankovic, Radovan Cerlja, Gregor Mlakar members. Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency for the period 2019-2023. The train's a whole bunch of problems at the ST.A. I don't know, I don't do it, I don't do it, I don't do it, so they're the supervisors that we've already set fire to. If that's what this is all about, then we wouldn't take it so seriously that every government will determine who will be the supervisors of the U.S.A. That's then, but so when you put it into words, I'm sorry that now dear Mojca has gone home, the Shrine, that's then you know the party system of the one mind that's going to be something or Urbania or I don't know who's going to be talking about how much and what they're going to be talking about. And why don't the ministers tell the coalition partners that Urbania won't actually let them go on TV? Yeah, I made it up, Duck doesn't make it up, and I don't write songs any more than you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Rudi Medved, prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, now we're getting to the point. They're not contract problems, folder files, and who knows what else. Something else is the problem. And when the Slovenian Press Agency reports that Janez Janša has proved immeasurably at the party football game and, of course, with three goals, he will be the best shooter when the STA reports it will achieve the standards expected by the SDS. And that's the point, the point is in editorial policy, the fight for editorial policy. And this is now a Member of the SDS, in fact, just as little to justify what this editorial policy should be. He explained it to them directly. In addition, those who pay attention and monitor the reactions of some government officials and the Prime Minister and some Members, in particular from the SDS, are actually sticking their noses to STA's editorial policy every day on Twitter. They change the addresses, and this address isn't right, and they didn't report it, and they didn't, and that's too much, and that's not enough. It keeps going, it keeps going. It's editorial policy. And now, as long as they're doing this with their clientele, I don't care, but the national press agency can't do that. Not with the national press agency. In fact, it is also characteristic of the Slovenian media space that all the media in Slovenia, most of them, the media I speak to, in the displeasure of the Prime Minister and the SDS, if they do not start an interview with the Prime Minister with the question “Please list us your greatest successes”. And when the Prime Minister, of course, counts this success, he will allow even a provocative question to be provoked by a journalist. And he'll say, yes, indeed, you've listed them, but, Prime Minister, there have been more. You've forgotten a few of them, please list them. That's how this SDS logic works as far as the functioning of the media. That's the whole science of it. What is most dangerous is how the SDS party imagines editorial policy or how the media will report. And this is also a Member, of course he's out - no, actually he's not, they're thinking that way. They have to report properly. Right. Not objectively, which is the basic postulate, the fundamental legality of every medium, no, correct. What's right? Who will determine what is right? Yeah, he did. The Member also said that, by the way, he taught. Poor communication of government, as well as professions, during the epidemic. That because the media reported this to people, it was in memory. Yes, good communication certainly could not remain in their memory – they did not experience it in a year and a half. People are under the pressure of one general confusion about communication in this epidemic. But no, the SDS would require the media to report that the emperor is dressed, even though we all see that he is naked. But no, we don't see it right. We don't see it right. The emperor is dressed because this is the correct reporting. This is the correct reporting. Let's leave objectivity aside. And so now I'm not surprised that this law has to be respected all the time under the cover of some contracts, and this law has to be respected under the cover of all of this. This is simply a ruse, what is happening in the relationship between the Government and the STA and Urbania is only a figure here because I guess it's clear. Now, a long time ago, the president of the government wrote down that they were a national disgrace. This is what we remember when it happened and it was a trigger that was the trigger then this race against the U.S.A. started. This was a sign for SDS supporters to go to STA until the end. Why did he write? And that's what makes it even more banal. Because you have to make it up on your own, it doesn't come from yourself, it's what they've studied and you take care of it only if you really agree with the serious conspiracy theories you go and make a comparison between the interview and the conscience of two completely different journalistic types and you're comparing now whether the interview was longer than the conscience of course it was. You know, 13 lines have been very long and she does an interview in 13 lines, but maybe even with whom she could do it, but they do this comparison and look no interview was probably just an accident interview with Zlatan Čordić and they just accidentally pulled out one interview and this interview with Zlatan Čordić was longer than that conscience. The news was talking about Janša Orban's meeting, it's not even a conscience anymore. It would be a good thing if one day a week didn't meet then we should report they didn't meet and because this news of Janša Orban's meeting was shorter than an interview the Prime Minister wrote the STA is a national disgrace and we're leaving, and that's when it started not telling me that this is a war between Veselinović and Urbania, no. This is a direct intervention by the President of the Government into the press and editorial policy of the Slovenian Press Agency. Let's just say things once with the right words, so I don't believe there's anything here in these contracts and who knows what. Of course he doesn't sign the contract. You write such a contract that a living baptism would not be signed, for that too is done and then you say, "Look, don't sign it." Of course, it does not sign because it would continue to count the entire year of news lines and compare interviews and what is of course most important to it daily would practically look at STA under his fingertips as it reports and daily will be SDS in this case because they themselves turned out to be editors of the agency, and this is practically the whole story of this STA. This is also, of course, the story of RTV, which is broken slowly, but broken, but of course I expect it to be exactly the same. Expectations are exactly the same, and I don't believe anything is going to happen in just a few days or maybe weeks, but this problem with the U.S.A. will be solved. He won't. Yeah, it won't. Why won't he? Because the U.S.A. will not refuse to be led by a party to its editorial policy. I'm sure he won't. He didn't do it in 30 years, and he won't do it this time. It will lead an autonomous editorial policy such as that of the national press agency. If he's gonna lead it, of course, because that's the catch. If he can even lead her, because I'm sure you'll go all the way. Either you're in our image or you're not. You've brought things so far away that, of course, I can see that you don't give a damn if you don't care. You're probably surprised that he's been in spite of all this time, but somehow he's stuck to life. Obviously, it's the purpose or, it's not who's not with us. No, no, no. Whoever's not with us won't be with us, that's how it is. That's how it is with that STA, so stop fooling around and I'm hearing here now, says the secretary of state, what is the government's wish. What's the government's wish? Transparency, not to make me laugh. This government is going to tell me about transparency. And they're going to talk to me about transparency right now. This government? Come on. You don't believe what you're saying. I'm sure you don't. The desire of this Government, of course, especially its President and, as of course, has been made very clear at last by the SDS party, through the debaters before me, is to outstrip the Slovenian Press Agency and turn it into a government trumpet that will paint the great success of this government every day and pay homage to Prime Minister Janez Janša. That's all the goal and contravening this contract is to make a man literally sick. And this is the constant creation of conflicts that this is a conflict. This is a permanent conflict and due to this creation of conflicts, the SDS has brought the country almost to a state of emergency. In this frustration, complete incompetence and powerlessness are the only levers that this power is seeking to maintain in power, and that is to say repression. We're all witnesses to that anyway. First verbal, and now some other. In the STA the water cannon is directed from the first day of the arrival of this government to power. From day one. The tears of the employees, who appear to be short-lived, remain unemployed, and these tears symbolically show how this power obscures the view of the harsh beating of the rule of law in this country. With what? With a tear gas. With a tear gas. And then the president of the government says that STA is a national disgrace. No, Prime Minister, what a national pride. It is, however, a national and international disgrace that this Government has caused to one of the most important democratic gains of our independence, a national press agency and a national and international disgrace that this government of agency employees has brought their families to the brink of survival. And who is now from the ministers listed earlier by colleague Lydia, who raised their voice against this madman? Nobody. They put their heads in the sand, they can't see anything, they can't hear anything like wild cocks when they sing. Did anyone understand whether someone from NSI or SMC realized that it was just a simple ruse? Nobody. Well, maybe it is. Or some of the freely swinging Members who support this coalition from the outside. Yeah, well, maybe someone even figured something out, but I did it sure as hell nobody did anything. And why is Janez Janša doing this? Yeah, and that's a very simple answer. Because you can. Yeah, because you can. Because in a minority coalition, as much as there is left of it, it has this yawning support from outside, under the cover of some kind of program. Obediently execute the dictatorship of the leading SDS party and allow this. And now it would be time for someone to finally think about whether this policy is why you were elected to this national assembly. Is it enough for you to look away at every episode of John Janša and his, if that's not my problem? Yes, of course it is. Your problem is. And unfortunately it's ours, too, because we live in the same country and because it's on the pranger of Slovenia. There's Slovenia on the pranger. And now hide your blush there because the European Commission is concerned about the pressure on the media in Slovenia. That's not enough. If you want to stand in front of the media, it's not enough to just blush secretly, and when Janez Janša at the EU summit on the open stage is arguing with the President of the European Commission for the financing of the STA. Well, that doesn't even make you rusty anymore, because in your coalition with supporters, this has become completely normal. But this is not normal for us in the LMŠ and for the party partners of the democratic opposition. And the Slovenian democratic public has already made it clear to you that this is not normal. The European democratic community has also made it clear to you that this is not normal. And it's a national disgrace. This is the national disgrace that this power is doing to us. And we don't have to do that. We don't have to do this. Why? That Slovenia in the eyes of Europe, I am talking about a democratic Europe, about a democratic Europe, is among those who do not respect media freedom. We can't agree with that. And we respect her. So, the minority government does what it does and, of course, casts a shadow on the whole country, and now suddenly we are all in Europe's eyes violators of media freedom. It's a disturbance that's happening to us now. But we must say very loudly and always that these authorities are not expressions of Slovenian democratic values. They are not an expression of Slovenian democratic values. And that this regime is held in power by unconstitutional decisions, it rules out the legislative branch of the decision-making process. And that this regime has clearly been placed under the roof of Article 9 of the Law on Police Responsibilities and Powers until the last, even if it will require people with a water cannon and tear gas every day. And that's the story we're talking about when we're talking about breaking the law. In the case of the STA, in fact, the Prime Minister is responsible for breaking the law, because Ukom has nothing to do with the STA if we look at it this way. The government must respect this law. And who represents the government and is responsible? Yes, Prime Minister. And this cannot confuse the fact that Slovenia is becoming a problem country in the eyes of Europe because of the brutal submission of all social sub-systems to the ruling SDS party, that it is losing its reputation, that it is losing its reputation, and that it does not care to the Prime Minister, Janez Janša. So we live in a dark time, in a dark, sadly, not just because it was made out of darkness outside. At a time when people have to run across the average because of the clouds of tear gas and water cannons. But that's what we've been through. However, the Interior Minister and the Director of Police are enthusiastically applauding and in advance telling us what an incredible success it is that, of course, the real analysis of what has happened or whether this force has been used proportionally or not has not been done. And, of course, the analysis they're going to be doing at the top of the police after the Aleš Hojs dictatorship, we don't believe that analysis anyway. Yeah, but now we're going to, we're going to expect things to be analyzed and figured out, look, we're going to find out objectively that they've exceeded their powers. No, they'll make the right decision. The findings will be correct, as can be the objective or correct editorial policy of a medium. And for nothing else, if there's nothing else to do with all the above, this government should, at least for the patriotism it has so full of mouths, for the sake of patriotism.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, because I was so compassionately compared with Ifigenia, I ask you not to express compassion, because it is an honor for me to compare me with such an exceptional figure in Greek classical mythology, which is, of course, a symbol of purity, as you know, in that way that he also gets his posthumous place as a priestess. So thanks for the compliments on that. As for the position, however, as regards the position that the government is trying to define the distinction between public and market share, between public and market activity, it interferes with programme policy, and this is simply not and is not one of these links between one and the other. Since the Public Finance Act clearly requires what and how, and does not say that finances are in any way linked to substantive decision making when it comes to their transparent, economic and other spending. It was also said here that, of course, I am not a lawyer and that I do not understand the law. Absolutely, therefore, I am not trying to interpret the legal bases now, but I will only state the positions or conclusions of the courts, the decisions of the courts. If you really need to pay in advance without defining the scale, value, prices. Then the District Court in Ljubljana, 5 May 2021, would not annul the enforcement decision proposed by the State and the decision on enforcement of the District Court in Ljubljana was annulled. If it were true that, irrespective of any arrangement or definition of the value of payment and volume, the District Court in Ljubljana would not, on 21 May 2021, repeal the enforcement decision for the recovery of two amounts for January 2021 and 2022, which was tabled by the State. If it were true, on 18 June 2021, the District Court in Ljubljana would reject the proposal of a law firm representing STA by issuing a provisional order on an agreement against UKOM. On 21 July, I emphasise, the Administrative Court held back the implementation of the STA Public Service Management Regulation. This delay in execution, when the UKOM had already sent the final version of the contract on 20 July, only extended coordination, since the STA concluded that the contract would not be necessary and that the coordination between UKOM and the State had stopped. However, on 6 September 2021, the Supreme Court held or ruled in favour of the UKOM’s appeal and annulled the decision of the Administrative Court concerning the suspension of the enforcement of the regulation. Don't say I'm interpreting anything, I'll read it. 15th point, the decisions in explanation of the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia state: “The material legal error is the conclusion of the Court of First Instance that the suspension of the enforcement of the regulation is necessary because, otherwise, and if the applicant did not sign the annual contract prepared under the regulation, it would not be necessary to pay the public service compensation for 2021.” The first paragraph of Article 7 of the Regulation, therefore, would not have been written by the Government if it had no interest to define the situation and that public activity is paid. The first paragraph of Article 7 of the Regulation is the Court of First Instance, the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Regulation expressly provides for the payment of public service compensation even if the annual contract for 2021 is not concluded. On the basis of this, it states in PKP STA and this Regulation. And then it goes on and on and on. Point 17: “The Court of First Instance’s assessment of the likelihood of serious remedial damage within the meaning of Article 32 ZUS-1 is also incorrect.” It is a claim or a STA that such a relationship forces STA into bankruptcy. Rightly, just a little while ago, the complainant claimed in her request that she was in danger of bankruptcy because she had not yet received any compensation for the public service for 2021 from the defendant. However, the existing assets position of the claimant could be improved by the enforcement of the regulation, so the Government has sought to improve the Court’s determination if it has adopted this Regulation. It may improve, however, as the defendant on its basis is to start paying compensation for the public service performed in 2021, which is implicitly recognised by the applicant. While the applicant points out that the payment under the regulation does not provide it with adequate funding for the public service as it would in line with the business plan, but there is a problem with the definition of price and costs, but that the claimant does not specify this difference at the level, it is not possible to determine whether the injury would be serious. In particular, the applicant does not explain, it is even less likely to prove why this injury would be difficult to correct if there were actually a difference in the amount of compensation under the regulation and according to the business plan. That's a quote. I'm not interpreting anything. I don't interpret it. It's a quote and a court decision. So what we are discussing here today is not the government that is trying to interpret the legal basis, but it is the decision of the court, the Supreme Court. On the other hand, who interprets the legal basis? On page 3 of this meeting, I quote: “The Director of STA Veselinović responded to the draft regulation by warning that its content is not in accordance with the Constitution or the law defining the financing of the STA”. It's quite different from what the Supreme Court says. And you keep saying, after the PKP, it's an obligation to pay. It's a commitment to pay. But it doesn't say anywhere, it doesn't say that the government has to pay and break the Public Finance Act and its 54. That's not what it says. But it doesn't say that anywhere because the government can't do that. Because the bookkeeping documents need to be required. Because the Court of Auditors will also require the Government to provide documents on the basis of which it has paid its claims or paid the public service of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u125	Mr. Rudy Bear has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u126	Madam Secretary of State, I didn't call you, I didn't call you by personal name. Because you were looking at me. And even if I did, I would never fake it because you have a beautiful personal name. And I have no doubt, absolutely not, in your legal knowledge, nor have I accused you of perhaps interpreting by your own judgment and the content of the contracts. I just wanted to say, of course, that all this legal exercise is totally unnecessary, but it happened because the Slovenian Press Agency did not immediately remove the political pressure and did not immediately start implementing the editorial policies it expected. And then it started. And all these judgments and everything, that's the effect of the snowball. This is the effect of tweeting about national disgrace, about the Slovenian Press Agency as a national disgrace. And I haven't talked about these judgments, I don't have this legal knowledge that I'm going to interpret them. I told you where the point was and why it all began, that we are today in these judgments of this court and that we are dealing with them needlessly, completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u127	Once again, the Secretary of State wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u128	Thank you. Really, just for a little while. I didn't interpret either, and that's why I quoted it because I don't have the right legal knowledge. However, I would like to point out that the problem is only that the Director with UKOM does not define prices, prices per unit and here is the problem. As soon as this defined problem is gone, this must be the basis for any transfer of funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u129	Now it's mag. Meira Hot. Get ready for her, Mr. Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. At the outset, of course, I would like to prepare Mrs State Secretary a little bit in citing her law. The fact is, when you said that the District Court obviously did not assert, because it annulled the decision was of course some sort of manipulation, because the District Court’s enforcement decision had already been annulled after practice, as long as the objection arose and the objection came in this case, so the parties were sent to the truth, and this has not been decided on substantively, they were sent to justice. Now, in order to clarify the actual situation and not to be heard in public, the District Court in this context has already ruled that it is only normal practice that I find it somewhat incorrect to invoke annulment, because this was obviously necessary at the time the objection was put forward, which unfortunately would have been filed. What the Supreme Court has decided, regardless of your quotations and points and readings, of course, we can read in a very interesting way, if we read three sentences, and we release certain sentences, then we let something out in some way. The fact is that the Supreme Court has explicitly found that there is no need to issue a temporary enforcement order, the implementation of a regulation adopted by the Government, because the agency has a legal basis for the law is clear, you have to pay the funds under the law and regardless of the fact that we are now philosophy here for 6 hours and otherwise the law is clear, it is clear, pay them, pay them after 281 days pay them for the work done. I can't believe we even have this debate. I can't believe this saga's been dragging this tragedy for 281 days because they didn't write after someone's age because they're not even sure who's going to count the signs of an interview or an article or what. I don't know what kind of person does that. I wouldn't mind. The media are so different and so on and so forth. STA is definitely an institution that is a 30-year-old builder of our democracy and go to break STA in this way, mark it as fake news and then, of course, when the classical way of functioning of this government is still in the last year 2, 3 tweets, then we go to action, discreditation, attacks that ended in the protests last week. Some of you swore to protect the constitutional order, some of you swore to act in harmony with your conscience. I'm not going to discuss your conscience. I guess every conscience has its own. The Constitution, however, is one and I recommend that you take it back into your hands and read it a little bit, at least read it a little. At least read what you're committed to. You have committed yourself to the welfare of people in the Republic of Slovenia. This prosperity of our people seems to be just a few cases last year: unconstitutional decisions are being taken, human rights and freedoms are being restricted as much as possible; now I am waiting for you to attack the Supreme Court, which today has dared to decide that masks in internal spaces cannot be regarded as an offence, which means that those who have been ingrained because they did not want to wear masks in internal spaces, so you did not have a legal basis. This is some kind of red thread of this term. There is no legal basis, no legal basis, no legal basis. When there is no legal basis for what is to be done, however, the decision is already a complete and absolute derogation from Parliament. We are here merely and only a ornament, which each so much you inform yourself, but you actually and absolutely rule with the rulings when the Supreme Court tells you that it is necessary to pay something back when the legal provision gives you that something needs to be paid as in the case of the STA, hop, a regulation is adopted. You're very fond of submarital acts, but under law, under law, you can only deal more closely with legal matter. And your marriage imposes something, you can philosophy me here for two hours about not knowing any substantiations and so on. Clearly, it is necessary to pay, the work done must be paid. You are also, as previously said, a colleague has explained nicely, you have a supervisory board that has the right to oversee the work of the administration and you have a director that you can otherwise call to account, and which is still a person against this person, I can't believe what you're doing, and now I'm a little too emotional, but it's, simply, abominably, abominable where we came from. [[Incomprehensible]] It's just that a man can't believe it anymore. Repression, a couple of excellencies. Today you have also received Greece's report on your transparency, so much so that not one of the 15 anti-corruption recommendations has come true, so today we read again that Slovenia is disgraced in the world, etc. So much for transparency. If they were so very transparent, they would simply implement the legal provisions, not be philosophical, looking for a variety of circuits, reasons why they cannot and cannot. That's not true. 281 is not, is about 100 people without pay for the work done. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not pay its employees. That's what we're talking about. That's all we're talking about. Very simple mathematics, not needed at all by some philosophy, deepened. All you have to do is respect the law, respect the legal obligations and pay. And you're looking for circuits, and you're underestimating everything in order, if you think that anyone sitting here or watching and watching you believes any quasi arguments that are really an argument of power. This is not an argument, this is an argument of power, because we can, because we are in power, we will do so. We'll take care of everything. He who resists will only pay in one way or another, either by surrendering at the end and withdrawing from his position, or by not paying him, he is exhausted, but in the end you will win. That's your philosophy. And we don't agree to that. And in fact, the only thing I really miss about today's session and I very much agree with the opinion of the ZPS, which, by the way, as lawyers, excellent lawyers, say very clearly, quote, "that in the fact that some content is regulated by law, it is the obligation of law to fully respect." The law has to be respected. I can't believe the ZPS has to write this to us, but he wrote us. In fact, it tells us that the fact that we, through a recommendation, are trying to prove to the Government that the law must be respected, that there is already little situation absurd here, but it already tells us how we are on some side, we no longer know how to prove it, but it is correct that when the responsibility of the Government to ensure the financing of the STA is consistent with the applicable legal regime, be careful, also of the case law, so the ruling of the Supreme Court cannot be enforced through recommendations, because the recommendation is some legally non-binding political act. They actually recommend to us here that we should use an appropriate constitutional institute in the form of interpretation, non-trust or constitutional charges, and I very much agree and I hope that we will continue to do so, because today this must not be answered by you telling me yours, telling me yours and taking it all away again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word, and after him will be debated by the Magi. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u132	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! I will find it difficult to tell you after these six, seven hours of debate at a meeting that should never have been reached. At least not in a country that thinks it's democratic. What are we talking about six hours now? We are in Parliament in the House of the Legislative Branch where the law has been passed, one more, and today in this legislative branch of power we ask the executive branch of power, please respect the law. Bye-bye. And I'm not surprised anymore. After what's been going on for the past few months, and not to mention this week in particular, I'm not surprised by any more things in this country and this government. What are we talking about? We are talking about 281 days of exhaustion and the fear of people doing their jobs, professionally carrying out their activities in the U.S.A., performing a public service that the government does not want to pay. Slavery, it's similar to what Comrade Duck used to say. You may be ashamed to be involved in all this work. What are we talking about? About what? I'm just a little older, and I also remember the establishment of the STA at the time of independence. This is an agency that plays an important role in, even in, the processes of Slovenia's independence. Why does he have an important role to play? For its truth, it was in international markets towards the Yugoslav army and its apparatus, which sold its truth to the world at the collapse of the former Yugoslavia. And this apparatus, because it worked as provided for in Article 1 of the Act on STA, I will read it to you, part of what they do: “STA performs the public service of permanent, comprehensive, accurate and objective provision of information on events in the Republic of Slovenia and the world for the public in the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenians around the world, Slovenian national minorities” and so on, not to mention. [[…]] Public and objective. And it was because they were professionally doing their job that they were able to pair up the powerful JNA intelligence machines that were selling their truth to the world on our own. One institution to be proud of. But it's not that you think of yourself as independent and self-absorbing. [[?]] all the credits for the independent Slovenia to be broken today. Be deeply ashamed of you, all of you who are involved in this. And what's he doing, what's the mission of this STA? STA just reports on what's going on in this society. And what happens to a year and a half in this society? May I remind you a little bit about what she had to report? She had to report on this, I don't know, millions of transactions and corruption related to the acquisition of protective equipment, the allocation of business of friends, the opening of envelopes in calls only some, some have forgotten, and they have opened up these real, friends, acquaintances, parents, we are discussing the year of unconstitutional decisions, the year of punishment of many citizens and citizens who have paid penalties on the basis of non-constitutional decisions. One of them was adopted today, but one of Meira's colleagues mentioned earlier. What are we talking about? What did the media have to write about? About a failed, completely infested epidemic, the fight against the Coronavirus epidemic. We are the only ones in Europe that are still shaded in dark red. Why? Because this government, the Prime Minister, is fighting with half of Slovenia not to speak with half of Europe, but with someone else. Since ministers of their citizens and citizens are going from prostitutes to pigs, I don't know what we were. And I must congratulate you for being successful this year and a half. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u133	Dude, the content is STA, not the president's statement. Please return to the darkness. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u134	That's it, and you're in charge of the session, just like you're in charge. Thank you very much. In general, you have managed in one year and a half not to divide into lefts, rights, ours, yours, even when the international community, when we finally came up with one medicine that could help solve this crisis, you citizens and citizens even argued that we are now separated from the vaccines and non-vaccinators. Well, that's crazy. And she had to report it to the U.S.A. She had to report on the pressure on the prosecution, on the court, on the NPU, on the violation of the Constitution, there were countless. She had to report on the record indebtedness that you have been able to do to citizens and citizens in this successful work in this year and a half, record indebtedness, corruption in health care, because we see that they had to report that the Prime Minister, whose client is fighting corruption in health and he is painting himself, was driving on the yachts of these major suppliers. It was an accident. They had to report it. Not to say, last but not least, what broke out at the bottom of the court this week, they also had to report that this government, with the repression it exerts over the other thinkers, over the citizens and citizens who carried out peaceful protests that you used, that even Ljubljana was gassed, that you used a water cannon and that for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia you shot at citizens and citizens. Yeah, with rubber bullets or something. This respectable colleague and colleague, of course, is why you don't like STA or Janez Janša, because this is not the picture you paint. A successful government, we did a great job. Taking a ride to work, I see the billboard of New Slovenia, which is now stepping back because it is slowly aware that the bill is coming out. We successfully provided the firefighters with the money wrapped around. We've been helping out. I don't know who. I'm waiting for you to give New Slovenia next week, we've successfully destroyed the STA, surrounded. There's not much to give you a hook. A hundred people and their families are waiting or they'll have to survive, and for bread, and you've been a fool for a good year. Of course, this is not the picture John Janša would like to introduce himself to the world. His wish would probably be North Korea, where two million people will applaud in a hysterically large leader who, by the way, will now be this government that is also setting itself up a museum where it will present its own and the only truth. Catastrophe. And all this respectable fellows and colleagues, this people are pretty slow. They're hiding, and DeSUS isn't here today, I don't know, they weren't invited to this meeting? They probably didn't get the invitation or what? SMC passed this law, their law, under which you have to pay the U.S.A. for what they've done. They're not here today. They didn't have a point of view either. New Slovenia is already home.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u135	Dude, please go to the content, not the other stuff.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u136	Respected [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u137	We'll be able to do this differently, and there's not too many of you here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u138	Honorable Prime Minister or President [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u139	I'll be there sometime.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u140	I promoted you a little, but that's all. This too comes after seven hours of lame debate in this National Assembly is sad. In short, let me finish. What's happening today is embarrassing. I'm ashamed. I'm really ashamed. But I'll only finish with two sentences. Pay for the work done to the civil servants, for what they have done so that the families will not be hungry and yet another supplement, take the decision and give up one big service to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Does this mean that I, too, have to leave the session? Can I finish? [[Laughing in the hall]] I'll finish, I won't back out yet. I propose that we proceed with the debate. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, and she will be discussed by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very well greeted secretary of state, all colleagues and colleagues in the hall, as well as those who listen to us at home for screens. Today, we sow this material and revolve around the same words. The motioners do not want to, and do not want to hear what has already been read many times today, not only on a reasoned basis, but also on the part of the Secretary of State, but also on the part of some Members, what has been written by the Supreme Court. I will not quote myself again, but I will point out that in fact you want legislation to be respected. And if you want legislation to be respected, the legislation must be fully respected. To start with the STA Act, as I said yesterday, and will now point out once again that it clearly states in Article 6 in paragraph 9, the STA must not finance market activities from the funds obtained for the public service. And this is the key to not being able to finance market activities, which means that if we want to find out what is public and what is marketable, we need to define. And this has the right of the financier, in this case the government, to demand clearly the allocation of funds to public works and to the market. And why? Because it's a liability to taxpayers. Because once someone comes to look at this, it's probably the Court of Auditors, but sooner we should look at it and demand it, because they probably didn't buy something just to say, yeah, we need 2 million. We'll give you $2 million, we'll pay you, the government will give it to you, everything will run as you want. It's irresponsible behavior. And the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states that a clear, transparent and appropriate separation of public service activities and market activities should be ensured, including a clear separation of accounts. Thus, it is the basis in the Act on STA and in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We already have two legal bases that clearly determine that this separation must be between what is public and what is marketable. And if we want to get this we have to write things down. You've probably ever been to sacred institutions. I am not saying now that the STA is a public institution, but also when legislation has changed and demanded that institutions have to separate public from market work they had to separate. And the saints of the institutions controlled it. And here I don't understand how he hasn't actually asked the supervisory board after that. Well, it was already flawed here. And that's all this government wants to arrange to make it clear what's being paid out of public service. That's the point. In fact, this has now been confirmed by the Supreme Court by its judgment, where it has determined that the STA is obliged to show how real the situation is. And WHAT didn't do it. First, there is no basis for payment. But as you played on your emotions yesterday, today you played on your emotions again, a little less than yesterday, I must say, those who listen to you, there were not so many emotional outbursts, a little calmer tone was nevertheless, although the president of the Committee on Culture began the report very biasedly. Let's just drop it. But the guidance of the proponents, as it is yesterday and today, is the red thread of today's debate that the government should pay once, so let it break all the laws, the legal basis it has and let the Ministry of Culture give this money to the U.S.A. It doesn't matter what the STA writes, the main thing is to write some amount, and based on that amount, let the Ministry of Culture round everything up. That's really irresponsible of taxpayers, isn't it? All you're saying is cheating. The government has never interfered with the substantive autonomy of editorialism. She wasn't involved. But why do you advocate so passionately, so passionately today and yesterday, for the funding of the STA, and not now turn to yourself again, but I want to tell you why. We don't care about that. But we want to tell you why you're doing this and why you want to show why in front of all the viewers. Because in the last year, STA promoted almost twice as many those parties that are united in KUL as coalitions. By knowing that if the coalition is likely to have much more, even now at the time of the presidency of the contributions that would be worth publishing. But apparently for the STA is not because in your opinion they are impartial. So, the STA wrote down 4 thousand contributions on coalition parties and about KUL slightly less than 10 thousand. And that suggests impartiality? No, no, no. This shows that STA is definitely the left medium, even if you want to view it as a public medium. But we're not getting into this. I wanted to tell you why the KULs are so defending the STA and its funding. That is why I am not saying that the ministry will not finance, but your burning desire and today's session is precisely this – to keep the STA for yourself, not for the sake of citizens and citizens, so that they will be informed of what the STA reports. Because they can't because it doesn't make sense because it doesn't make sense because actually citizens and citizens follow what they want to read. But your goal is to keep STA reporting because it reports what you want. So that I would only conclude that today it has proved through the entire debate that we will obviously not, even today, come in the same direction despite the fact that we wanted both members of the coalition and the State Secretary on the basis of the legislation and on the basis of the judgment to say that they do not hold what you say and that the Ministry will finance the STA when it receives a clear report, how much public work and how much market work it is. And when this is done, the ministry will certainly pay the necessary money. That's the end of it. I told you yesterday, and today I'm going to say the same thing, and the reason for all this is the lead of the STA. No government, no MPs, no employees, no one, no one but leadership. Leadership is the one that leads, leadership is the one that has to solve problems, and leadership is the one that has to report to the employer, in which case his employer is the government. Because yesterday, Member Bandelli told the Secretary of State that she had obviously never been employed in the economy to pay his employees. Yes, the government pays them, too, only when it sees what is done according to a clear report. He can't before. What's she gonna pay for? Empty straw? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The proposaler Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. See, if we are already addressing some numbers, we should seriously focus on some methodology. How many time units do you measure and what do you measure? Then we should also look at the scope of the news, the echo of the news. Then we should also watch when something is published because hot terms are less hot terms. Then you compare the uncomparable. The government is going to some kind of presidency. Perhaps if the Prime Minister had not argued with the three-quarters of the Council of the European Union, there would have been more events and more reports. It's probably not Franz Duck and MTV's fault that I won't always mention Kordish. Secondly, we have four KUL parties each on their own agenda, we are not unanimous. And you have one client. Come on, that half of NSI, it stops, and you're starting to get different here, but you know. And I very much agree with what Tomaž Mastnak said that we must open political differences because we are different. We're a lot different than you are, and the numbers come from here. I mean, I don't know, you wouldn't do a colloquium with me on social development indicators.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u145	Thank you very much. First, let me give the floor to Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovac. I'll give the wave a word first. You raised your hand first.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u146	Well, great, thank you very much, Vice President. It's very simple. After all, if we combine now again what colleague Moškrič said before and now Mrs Zavadlav Ušaj, we see again where the problem is. It is not a problem to read the Supreme Court's rulings, not a problem in the legal basis and elsewhere. The problem is, as colleague Muskriè said, that in the past year there is three times more news about the opposition than there is about the government. I wonder what kind of adopted mind is even going to compare how many articles are published by a press agency about the government and the opposition, and that is the essence of the problem. Once again, it's what bothers you that you're not in fact STA subordinate and that they don't just write nice things about government. I think we've heard so many times today that there aren't so many positive things to write about if this government of its own is in the streets of gas. As far as I'm concerned, once again, I think this is crucial and important. Stop deceiving yourself with this Supreme Court judgment. You read the arguments of the court in those 17, 18 points where, of course, the court on one hand sums up the arguments of both parties, gives UKOM or Government, of course, but in what way. To say that it is better not to temporarily retain that regulation, because at least under that regulation you could get some money. But completely forget the saying and the core of the judgment, which the Government says is bound to do regardless of the remittance of this money, no matter what. I think it's also a very fair and direct opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which says why you're making one more recommendation, because they're still non-binding. This National Assembly is no longer valid in this country, but use constitutional instruments such as constitutional charges. It is said that what you are doing now also on the basis of the Supreme Court judgment, which explicitly states that the Law-Legal Service is something that can be the basis for a constitutional charge, not for a constitutional charge of recommendation or for some debates on these committees that we have already not known 15 but for a constitutional charge. So stop asking nicely to refer to the Supreme Court's explanation, because once again, in the Supreme Court's explanation, the Prosecutor's summary and the defendant is given to the defendant as well as to the defendant, but at various points and in different ways. Under the heading of this judgment, the State, the Government, UKOM are obliged to pay the STA on the basis of the STA Act and the anti-korona package 7.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u147	Thank you very much. There's a replica of mags. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u148	Thank you. I'm just gonna replicate both of you once. First, let me conclude what my fellow Member has been saying since the judgment. The judgment clearly states that it is not concrete and is in fact established. It is not concrete by the STA how public it is and how much market work it is all about. That's the question, and that's the point. In short, I'm reciting to my buddy Duck because he said they were four parties and they weren't unanimous. And I'd ask him why you're not unanimous because you actually don't have all four, and all four of you have in common the fact that you don't have a program. Looks like you gave something as a release when you signed this joint document. At the same time, I think that what has been said is that STA reports what is important to them, but look, that's exactly why we have this situation in the country with regard to wearing masks, because in fact the media supports what you're inflating, what you're inflating here, what you're inflating outside the protests and what, then, is causing our country to be one of the worst countries in the epidemiological picture. Not because of the government, but because of what you do and what the media do. If everyone were to ask each other a few questions, it would probably be a different picture and we'd probably be in a normal life right now, not what's going on in the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Proposaler, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u150	To comfort my colleague. Next Saturday we have the Social Democrats Program Congress, where we will present our great program and make sure that you don't fall on your ass with enthusiasm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u151	Thank you so much for those eppes. We'll keep an eye out for anything useful. Let's move on to the debate. Primoz Siter has the word, and Jura Ferrjan will discuss it. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good evening, everyone! Now, perhaps it makes sense after this long debate to make one such summary or in a crowd of all the information that we have heard and to start by telling what is the catch of today's debate or the problem that has been highlighted by the speakers of this meeting. Now, or maybe for laymen. In Slovenia there is a central press agency, which is the STA and this service, this public service provides all other news, news from the world, politics, economy, sport, culture, etc., which is the source of information or the basis for work after all other media. Of course, it is important what this information is and, of course, it is in the interest of the current authorities that so much of this information is controlled by the content of this information. Now, I would, I wouldn't tire out with long defenses of elaborates, but I have for you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, one remarkable record that I think should serve as the basis for the whole debate today and says so in a few sentences. We believe that freedom of expression, thought, speech and public expression is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the international conventions in this field and by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Freedom of expression is crucial to the functioning of a democratic society, and in this regard, the media play an extremely important social role in controlling the public over the events in society, so we need to understand and protect the media as a dog keeper of democracy. However, media obstruction and pressure from the position of power pose a threat to democracy. It is not acceptable for democratic countries to try to influence the state or its representatives in the media or in their editorial policy. This, respected colleagues and colleagues, is a press statement issued by the SMC Group of Members on 10 April 2019. And now, with this mature democratic mind, let's try to read the situation we're in. Today's meeting or agenda item is the planned financial exhaustion of the backbone of Slovenian journalism STA by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to stress the intention, because, as we have seen and as we see in practice, it is neither spontaneous nor innocent, but there is one concrete strategy behind it, one concrete plan, an imaginary action plan of submission, not only of the media landscape, but of all, the whole state and social map, which was seen at the beginning of the mandate, when we heard one date today, on 27 March, the President of the Government claimed that the STA fan is a false news fan, then this story about the number of signs in the interview with Chordič and then on the other hand in the reports of the Janš – Orban meeting, and with calls for a resignation. It was also very fast across, and police raids by the government, etc. Now, faster than not, this would not have happened if in the editorial board of the U.S.A. it had been decided and that on March 13, 2020, after the first meeting of the Government, someone wrote and published at the title STA, came the best President of the government of all time, finally here we have the new Janša government, now we are saved. And all of these, but it happened what it was. Journalists have reported in a credible manner, as they must, and in the meantime have called upon foreign institutions, which are within the European Union, alerting to the situation, that the police raids at the STA headquarters are not right, that calls for resignation are wrong, that the counting of signs is wrong and that the glory of the Prime Minister of Slovenia has been brought or the disgrace of the Prime Minister has been brought to others. Die presse, Le Figaro, Der Spiegel, Die Economist, ORF, Hina, Index, Morning Tanjuk, Beta, and Politics and so on, they all carried these fames leading Janša's repression of journalism around the world. But the government insisted, regardless of the fact that it saw that the control of the epidemic was unsuccessful, regardless of the fact that it saw that it was causing shame to the whole country, it persisted and now I explain why or what the strategy of what it was, what is a broader context than destroying the STA. WHAT is a hostage here in a social sense and the role of the hostage is not his rehabilitation, the role of the hostage has nothing to do with him in fact, serves there as a school for everyone else. Like someone shoots a hostage shoots him to make others watch and learn and say oh, that can't happen to me. And the media also understood this, if you look at it, a lot of media now think twice before writing some news and we can see in the criticism of the government, we see that they've softened a little bit. I understand that this whole thing is basically just a foreplay for some misrepresentation of the entire media landscape, but it would be a total event if the government of Janez Janša gets, God forbid, another mandate. Since what is happening, let's be careful, let's say at this point the next station is definitely national television, fresh news from today, from the title of the programme world or the result of the staff broom on that side is the interruption or discontinuation of broadcasts, reports at eight, reports at nine, reports at ten, diary selection, politically with Tanya Gobzek, My opinion, world in year and Slovenia in year of suspension. Since the policy has reached out to the Programme Council and can afford this at the second address of the public service at national level. Then, too, I give a short cut in time to others who report in a credible manner. First diary for 13 minutes, TV diary will be 20 minutes shorter, Slovenian Chronicle for 10, Reflections for 25, and Globe will be shorter, breaking point, Koda, Interview and Release with Mouse. Can you find a common denominator? And then reduce the amount of episodes of the following shows, Studio City and Target. Do we find a common denominator here? The thorn in the heel. Setting up the mirror. Of course, it is in the interest of the government of Janez Janša to do the cleaning there. And now I fear that the financing of the STA, that is not an isolated case, is one brutal indicator of a different state, the government is on the legislation of the whistle, at this point it has three legislative guardians to respect, the Law on STA, the seventh anti-korona package and the Supreme Court's decision. But don't get excited, people get tear gas in their eyes, but you still have to pay 400 euros for the burek. And that's the reality. I am sorry that yesterday on the committee that Members and Members of the SMC have reconsidered, or today we would have had the opportunity to call on the government to finally provide these funds that they have to pay legally to feed these 100 employees and to ensure that the journalistic autonomy of the profession in Slovenia in the 21st century could also be decided on, and unfortunately, with a finger on this swing vote we can show again. If I start, I'll end up with their words. In European democratic countries, it is argued that the head of state or public official must have a much higher level of tolerance for different opinions or even an accusation on his account than other non-public individuals. So I'm here expressing one disappointment. I say it is a shame that the SMC Members there too have reconsidered their position in its core, which is free and credible reporting within democratic frameworks. And as in the position of the parliamentary group at the beginning of the meeting, this time — and most prominently here — really got out of control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Jura Ferjan has the word, and he'll get the word of Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u154	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, and all those who accompany us, a fine evening. Today's session began hours ago with an easy start, it's easier not to pay the STA journalists for their work, to go to work without pay, which is not true and what is intentional deception by the applicant. The constant practice of KUL could be said to have been followed up in recent months. That's what you do. That's your way of working, because you don't know the other one, because you don't have the content, but that's your problem. Now there was much to be said in this debate. I'll also respond to certain matters with some kind of intervention. One is that you talk again and again about government decisions that are unconstitutional and so on. It must be made clear here that the Government has adopted decisions on the basis of the laws in force, and the Constitutional Court has repealed an article of the law adopted in 1995 when it was in the power of the LDS. So little data, little facts. Now that we're talking about the STA, it might make sense that we go to the beginning, as you say, of this dispute, and these matters. See, in October, in November 2020, Ukom invited the Director of the State and today the former Director and the Supervisory Board to submit the dossier. We heard about this debate what Ukom wanted. Now I'm going to tell you exactly what Ukom wanted. Ukom wanted a monthly success report for the past 24 months and a balance sheet, an account card of all revenues for the last 24 months, a bank turnover statement for the last 24 months, a copy of all contracting entities and a list of all contracting entities and any price changes for each year for the last 5 years. And the director didn't want to give it away for months and months. The Supervisory Board has even agreed that the Director is not responsible for this. Yeah, who's in charge if not the director? And Ukom had the possibility, on the basis of Article 6 of the contract signed with the STA, but did not sign the current management of Ukom, namely the current director, but the former director or director, of canceling the contract and of the Slovenian Press Agency demanding all the paid funds in that year with interest, and he did not do so. And ever since then, this story has been drawn, continued, and continues today. Now, let's all ask ourselves honestly, but would you keep a director who won't give you the business records, the CEO of the company, whose personal ownership is 100%? You want to be serious? How long? Would you ask him once, twice, ten times, twenty-five times? This is a state firm, and we can wait months, and when it is, it will. Look, if this is your way as representatives of a political party, I doubt this would be your way of running a private company. And you lie to your constituents and voters. You're probably lying to yourself. And it is very clear that no one, believe me, would ask the director of his company, ask him to hand him the documentation ten times, but would simply replace him very, very quickly, respected and respected. Another matter that's very important and which is very much like it isn't, don't even talk about it. When was Mr Veselinović first appointed director of the Slovenian Press Agency? This was in April 2009. At that time, the government was led by a party of Social Democrats. And in the government today, the LDS and Reals were destroyed. So who set up the notorious director of STA, now a retired director? And here, in fact, a very clear report or very clear explanation of what this is all about. And the KULs, your fight for STA is not a fight for STA, but it is essentially a struggle for this monopoly or, as you call it, the medium for creating the truth, to remain with the real ones. Because for you, respected and respected as you yourself said, as one of the proponents said shortly ago, as he wrote, we can very clearly conclude from this that for you STA is not anyway a medium that should report objectively, but is a medium for creating the truth, your truth. And see, it is very convenient that STA chooses Europe's cream in Slovenia, the cream of the European Union, when the historic event of the 44 international delegations is in Slovenia and when we can read that the protest should overshadow this historic event. See, in the global media, the historic event reflected the summit of the European Union and the Western Balkans, but did not reflect protests that were violent and that were at an undeclared meeting. And today we have seen again that you are still unable to convict them of trying to justify violence, but no matter how hard you try, violence is still violence. But it is probably embarrassing that if you call for these protests, some of them are still attending to the problem. Another question could be asked on the spot, after several months of today's debate on the Slovenian Press Agency, quite frankly. Respected and respected, how many times have you spent the last 10 years on the website of the Slovenian Press Agency? It takes thinking to remember if we ever were. I was myself, even when I was working in the media. Otherwise, there is a clear answer for those who have not yet been on the website of the Slovenian Press Agency, why you have not been – since the Slovenian Press Agency for Citizens and Citizens offers an address, a short paragraph that summarizes the topic, the image and then the footnote that the whole news is accessible or the news can be bought. Therefore, citizens and citizens do not go to the Slovenian Press Agency or to their website, but read the media. And I'm not going into the editorial policy of the individual media. However, I believe that in these days when the STA decided to strike, the biggest problem was the mainstream media, which had no agenda on how to attack the current government. It is interesting, however, that the Slovenian Press Agency, which is extremely critical to the current government, but when we have a government in power, which is from the left option, they become very friendly to it, they praise it. Look, public media. Public media are all who report publicly and national media must be in the service of people, countries and report objectively, impartially, independently. That is what we have heard today, and I cannot agree with this at least as regards the social political situation in our country. And in these questions about the demand of citizens and citizens for news, you also wonder whether there has been a difference, say, in the period, I don't know, and in the last ten years, when there has been so much talk about the STA. Respected and respected, I think we can all agree that it is the interest of all of us, that we have a plural media system, a plural media scene and, as I said in the editorial policy of the individual media, I will not go, but the public national media must be objective and impartial. Allow me to conclude my discussion with a quote from the former director of Television Slovenia Mrs Jelka Bizilj, who said on October 6th on the show Discovered on Nova24 TV on the new show and said a few words about the Slovenian media scene, quote: »Slovak media have completely cancelled in this time frame in animation against the kivid. I think this is where the battle with the government prevailed. This is why we people have drawn briefly many times because they fought a war with the government, most of the media.” Respected and respected! Let this also be the thought with which I will conclude my debate today in the desire to talk in the future about Slovenian media being independent and impartial, not on the basis of the truth they show as your truth, but on the basis of the facts and their reporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Divac Mirnik asked for the floor. Before I give you my word, I'd just like to say that he's got another word for you, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, mag. Dejan Kaloh and Alice Jeraj. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Comrade Ferjan has also given a good indication of what we are saying all the time, now for two days now, which of course disturbs the largest coalition party at this point, they are disturbed by Director Veselinovich, who has been set up, I don't know when, but we don't know where everything comes from. In short, he's definitely left-handed. That's a fact. Of course, what the government has done in this fight in the meantime, from sending a police inspectorate to the STA, I will not even speak. But in the meantime, she also suggested that the Supervisory Board resolve him. Of course, she exceeded her powers because such a proposal is illegal. Because the members of the Governing Council are not bound to any opinion in the management of their work, nor to anyone’s guidance, but are independent, independent, and personally responsible in their work. However, the STA Act regulates the appointment and discharge procedures of the Director in such a way that each time the Government would not have a scrutinity after setting up its electors and, of course, the supervisors' proposal to replace then Director Veselinovich is actually a prosecution and an attempt to criminalise the Director. And then what happened? 30. 9. Mr Veslinovic, of course, resigned from his post as Director and has already achieved that first objective. However, he wrote in his resignation statement, quote: “I can't, I can't, and won't agree to the conditions under which the government's representative is forcing public service payments to be paid free now by the U.S.A. for 273 days” was then, “The Supreme Court has no doubt stated that the state is obliged by law to pay monthly for the public service. It is also an obligation to do so without a contract, and we have negotiated this. Unfortunately, it has proved to be just a new form of intentional delay with ever-new demands. The solution to the STA situation and compliance with the obligations imposed by the law are clearly contrary to the political interests of the current government. It adopted the STA Regulation and at the STA Assembly also the conclusions by which it postponed the start of the full financing of the STA, which is also its obligation under the law.” Now I'm not gonna read all this. The point is, however, that he simply did not want to agree that STA would be ordered to report exactly what Comrade Ferjan has just said. In short, Veselinović resigned just as this Government wanted, but look at the fraction of the payment for STA for the work done by journalists, for the public work done by journalists for 281 days is not even after the day 273, when he gave up the payment yet there is no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Ignacio Friedel Jarc has the floor, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to make a few more arguments or highlight myself. I have to take a call about what we've heard about how the government has separated people into vaccinees and dads. The government has always and always sought vaccination, and I therefore strongly reject that this is the result of the government's operation, which has provided and the appropriate vaccines, and therefore is the cause of vaccination elsewhere. The reason for this is how one and the other subjects were presented in public. But we know who represents this to the public. It's the media who provide information to the public. The other thing that has been said is that we are only reading some of the phrases taken from the explanation that I now have to read the decision of the Supreme Court to appeal, the decision of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia is amended by rejecting the request for a provisional order and in short it is clear that the final decision is the following. The Supreme Court has found and amended the contested decision of the Court of First Instance pursuant to Article 80(3) concerning Article 82 ZUS-1 by rejecting the application for provisional order. Another argument and one information given that, of course, we have heard that I do not know how long employees are not receiving salaries. The employees' salaries have been received up to now, including the regression.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the word, and he will be followed by a mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u160	Because I don't have much time, we'll be able to go very quickly. Mr Ferrjan, just as foreign media reported on the Brdo event, they certainly reported on the dispute between the President of the Government and the President of the European Commission, for example, about the STA, they also reported on the protests and so on. So, yeah, they're reporting. No wonder your Prime Minister also tweets to foreign journalists some rather impolite tweet. Madam Secretary of State, I have said that it is necessary to read the yes and the pronunciation as well as the core. The core contains a temporary suspension of the enforcement of the regulation, for which the party concerned will not constitute any obstacle – this is to you – to pay compensation to the claimant for the public service performed, since the legal basis for payment is already the law itself, specifically for 2021, second and third paragraphs of Article 66 of the PKP 7, which is the essence. Yes, the courts have pleased you in the sense that there is no need to keep the regulation. Why? Read this more. Because it's at least part of the basis that they can get some funding, but it doesn't say that you can't pay them anything, because the core clearly says that you owe it and that you have two legal bases: lex specialis, which we call the Act on STA and PKP 7. Stop pretending this isn't the case. You're just breaking the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. She'll be the last to discuss Alice Jeraj. Here you go. First, the word mags. Kaloh. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u162	President, thank you so much for your word. Yes, comrade Trček will be next, he is also a neighbor from the Koroška road in Maribor. Now, Franjo only introductoryly speaking about the beautiful SD program, a wonderful program in translation into the Slovenian language from Russian means, of course, a red program. The beautiful program is the same red program, but of course it has never worked at least in the past years not extra for people, but more or less for people, so in the first place only so. [[Incomprehensible]] Now, dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, especially the distinguished Secretary of State, Ignacija Friedl Jarc, I thank you here for your time, for your patience. Even for your elegance, an elegant answer, when you are also wanting to or neglecting your small name, so really here is a gift, because it is really here, I would say, in a way difficult to contain in this, even in the parable of the animal garden sometimes. Now, I'm probably one of the few Members who's been following the services very closely over the past years, and I've also done a journalistic job, which I'm proud of, and now look, when you're here scaring or implying that it's someone's terrible desire to direct and control the flow produced by the news, but, look, what you don't understand is that editors themselves choose what they're going to publish from the STA in their media. No one's forcing them to do that, so it's purely misleading, but now there's going to be one here that's directing it to control it. Every editor alone, one journalist, will choose what for the STA from their selection each time I think that about 200 over the thumb a day, he will choose, so look, respected proponents of pure deception. As far as it's concerned, it's the backbone of Slovenian journalism. Look, we have different views, maybe it is for someone, but for me, the backbone of Slovenian journalism is also other media, which also reports independent, upright, fearless. I can list some of them for you, from Democracy, Siola, New TV, Fire Report, Plant, Homeland, etc. This also represents the backbone of Slovenian journalism for me. They don't stay away from any dictatorship, report in accordance with their editorial policy, and that's it. As far as objectivity is concerned. I support myself from correctness to the STA journalists, which I support very much in their operation for objective and correct reporting, of course, but look, when I notice, also I have some inconsistencies, of course, to tweet it. Let me tell you one example, and now you tell me where this objectivity is diminishing, as far as possible, the Management Board of the University of Maribor meets in April, the STA records smoothly by the founder there was no one there. She was a lie because two members of the founder were present at that board meeting and how this was possible. And according to my tweet, he only remembered the STA, so we weren't careful, so that seems to be a mistake. Look, this can't be happening, it's actually a lie. Then what was that? Yes, representatives of the founder are lazy, nor do they attend the board of directors' constitutional meetings. Look, this can't be happening, and I doubt it, I doubt that this is an unintended mistake and that, now that I'm going to do some analysis, and I just don't have time, it would probably be something else. Now, 2018, 2019 I was myself a member of the Committee on Culture. Mr Veselinovich also walked there. I, when I looked at it, at first I couldn't stand to see when I left the press squads of these S.A. reports when journalists report from our committees, believe it or not, all the MPs were listed in at least two, three lines by their debate, and the S.D. has often waned. I asked Veselinovich, I said, how is this possible, where this objectivity appears to be happening to her? Well, look, don't make fun of it on purpose. Now I still think that this smoke bomb you left with this session today has some agenda for it. Of course, now to cover the really indisputable successes of this government, we have, of course, economic growth, Umar has not dictated this year that even 6%, we have, of course, 7 billion assistance in the work of the economy through the PKP, and individuals, huge funds for many investments are in the budgets for the next two years, in the health field even up to four times these funds, Slovenia is included on an international political map with a very agile foreign minister and so on. Of course, it is clear that you, as an opposition, I understand from this political point of view that smoke bombs such as today's session for you are those fronts to somehow cover up the success of this government, and then here on the other hand, you are also lying about fat as, for example, that the U.S.A. does not receive payments. Look, that's just not true. The employees of the STA received, until this moment they receive every 15th of the month their salary for their work, so that now this government has put them at risk I don't know how many families, see colleagues this is simply a lie. Also, if the government is to interfere with the editorial policy of the U.S.A., show me one example, one article, and find a witness to tell you that there has been some interference with substantive autonomy, see the flooding of malicious flooding. Yeah, but what are the facts now about the whole thing? Now, if we're talking about this, on the one hand, we have your deceptions, lies, on the other hand, there is some truth, and I'm glad that I'm after the MPs, before someone made a joke on MTV's turn, says after the respected Dr. Vatov, he asked rhetorically on Twitter, but who's going to create, who's going to create the truth if they don't. Yeah, look, I mean, what truth? Dr. Vatovec, on Twitter, you asked yourself who would create the truth. So we say work, factory, whatever, but whatever this truth is, from your point of view. The truth is not created, in fact it can only be created objectively through some of the facts carried out in society and so on it only reports, but the truth cannot be created unless it is intended that you, of course, create your truth for your political needs. Now, the government is obliged to respect legislation and, of course, to deal economically with tax money. That's the basis of everything we're talking about here today. Now, on the basis of this regulation, which was then sent to Veselinovich by a public service contract, of course it did not want to sign, there of course is a requirement that public service services can be sold on the market, that they have clearly said that this is not possible, because this would no longer be a public service and this, of course, Mr Veselinovic did not agree to it. Now, at the same time, he did not send a report by the end of September for the work done for August, he preferred to escape and those of his employees to whom he always referred left them alone in some sort of uncertainty that he, of course, caused. Now, I doubt he had any sincere desire to solve the situation. All his actions since he didn't sign the contract to solve the situation indicate that there was some shit in his pocket all the time. Now we're going to see if he's really going to move, as they say to the going media, and then there's going to be a circle, and of course this media circle is going to be closed, and it's clear that there was only one of his planned games in the back. Now, financially according to this logic, the STA has exhausted its own director, including by directing funds to the diary for some lame advertisements, what the diary of the STA ads needs, please. So that the Secretary of State has said the funds are provided, clearly and loudly, and will also be paid when they are met with all the legal criteria, and this is also, of course, in the context of compliance with the Public Finance Act. Now, to conclude, there was also some fear there by the proponents, and if this government continues, see, we will do everything for the development of Slovenia, because of investment-oriented budgets for the next two years, so that this government will continue its work even after the next elections, and as a former journalist, I believe that the matter will also be resolved for the STA, in particular, I appeal here to the employees, to the journalists who have been really weak to not say catastrophic leadership have now been suppressed, they have been here a collateral victim in fact, that they will then be happy to go to their jobs, but, as said, first of all, they must be satisfied with the legal criteria. Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u163	Thank you very much. First he gets the word "proposer Dr. Franz Ducky. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, you applied earlier, before Kaloh as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u164	I can apply now and then, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u165	Okay, okay, thanks. Replica, Lydia Wilderness Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u166	Thank you. Yes, my colleague Kaloh has just said that the SD Members were not mentioned at the STA. That's what they want to do. They want to make the STA trumpet, so that the SDS Members will probably be, I don't know, more, more often mentioned. Maybe that's why you're mentioned so little because you don't say anything or you're not here. We, who have been here all day, have been talking here all day, but we are mentioned, respected Mr Kaloh, for example. Then he said that the U.S.A. wanted to cover up all the success of this government and left-wing people wanted to cover up all the success of this government. Yes, of course, because the success of this government, in fact every day we see them and also feel them, protests, are now also outside, by the way, unconstitutional decisions adopted at night meetings, terrorism by 18 people throughout the country, tear gas and water cannon. Yeah, that's a real success. I don't even want to start about international shame. Then he said he was here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u167	My colleague, my colleague, this isn't a replica because you weren't misunderstood here at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u168	Then he told me here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u169	You misunderstand, you misunderstand the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u170	May I continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u171	Yeah, if you go in terms of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u172	Yeah, because I recognized myself when he said [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u173	But if you will. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u174	Members of Parliament, we lie here. [[…]] I mean, I haven't lied for two days on the board yesterday and today, nothing at all. But I operated on the facts, and that's what I did. Now, if he understands this as lying, then he has a bigger problem than I do. And another flower said, "What do you need?" The diary said, "What are you doing?" Why do we need an ad to buy a vignette, please? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Look, I suggest you tell everyone who's still going to talk about taking into account what the debate is and taking into account what the replica is. That's probably what we've learned in these three years. Alenka Jeraj gets the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u176	Thank you very much. It's been said a lot. A colleague gets upset here, and she's the only one from the LMŠ, and they're proposing this meeting today. Of course, because there's no vote, everyone's gone home and left her behind, and they're obvious to us here. And even as I spoke and quoted in my opening remarks by the Group of Members, what colleagues and colleagues said yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, I said that colleague Divac Mirnik told Director Ukom, Mr Urbanija that it was no one, many times. Then, when she commented, she said she only addressed him to an official. No, she told him a couple of times, and more than once, she told him it was no one. Now it could be a kind word for her. It's not for me. If you tell anyone it's nobody, it's a insult to me. So for you, he's not even human. He's nobody. And I don't think such words are appropriate. Now you've been telling us we don't listen to you all day. You don't listen to us either, as you didn't listen to Director Ukom yesterday when he was talking about the violations that were found. You're just saying, you have to fulfill the law, you've got to give them money, not what we're gonna pay for. Tell me one company that's going to pay something without checking, but someone did this service for what kind of money they did it for, or did it properly and properly. And let me tell you what these violations were found by the court, as you have been told several times. The public and market share were not clearly separated, the same services were double charged, the State paid once, then the Director of Veselinovic charged it to the users, the funds went to other media, such as Dnevnik, where Director Veselinović was once employed, otherwise with the compensation contract, but still 200 000 euros is a lot of money. Count how much wages there are for those who worry that tomorrow they will not have for bread and milk. He charged news and summaries and photographs that should be free of charge for users and set no disproportionate prices. This is what the director said yesterday when he charged 16 euros for one paragraph and 3 or 4 euros for 13 euros. And my buddy Duck said we can't measure everything. How could Mr Veselinovic be absolutely able to determine that something is worth €16 and slightly more €13? He also set a price, and the Supreme Court spoke about it when it said that there was no evidence that STA would go bankrupt and so on, because it had to determine, it must be clear what was being paid and at what price was being paid. That's the basics. Look, when you go to the store, you have a price list and you pay for coffee that or that. And that's the problem, and we've been talking about this all the time. Because the previous governments did not control what Mr Veselinovic was doing and how he came from, I don't know, 2 million public funds then to 4 million market shares. Look at the back of things. When did he start closing articles and selling them, why does so few media houses have a contract with the STA? Because it's all paying because the war is abnormally expensive. Because he charged twice. Once he charged the government or Ukom, he again charged others. And that's what Director Ukoma was talking about yesterday. [[sign for the end of the debate]] So, of course, he had to be interrupted and said yes, so don't let him say it. And just like they told their colleagues, who's going to create the truth now? That's very nice of you to say. The truth is only one and the STA is obliged to report it, not to create it. And let us act professionally when these violations are resolved and when they will be [[sign for the end of the debate]] agreeing and signing a contract, there will be no more funding problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The replica of Lydia the Wilderness Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u178	Dear Mrs Jeraeva, I ask you politely not to manipulate my words and not to lie. I'll read to you again what I said yesterday, and you'll have a magnetogram printed, and you'll read it yourself. Because now you've lied so smoothly to yourself. I said this, and I will quote what I said: Teaching in this story is from the point of view of competence and authority of nothing and no one. The same goes for Director Uroš Urbanija. I said, I'll read it again so you'll understand because you don't understand. Well, it would be nice if we listened and not just talked all the time. The lesson in this story is from the point of view of the powers and powers of no one and nothing. Do you understand? If you don't, ask the lawyers, and they'll explain. Thank you very much. And I respectfully ask you not to lie and not to manipulate my words. Thank you for the correctness.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u179	Thank you very much, colleague. There was no need for that anger. But if you had a replica, you said you were misunderstood, but you didn't get it right. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky. It's a replica. We understand each other, don't we? Lidija Dijak Mirnik also had a replica from the quota of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u180	I'm glad you're having such a good session, buddy. Now she's replicating a colleague. Everything's measurable. Albert Einstein said that two things are infinite, human stupidity and space, and that the other is not entirely certain. In short, human stupidity is not measurable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Government's representative and the representatives of the proposalr of the recommendation are also given the floor, those who still have time at their disposal. First, I give the floor to a representative of the government, State Secretary Dr. Friedl Jarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u182	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Once again, I would like to stress that the RS government must act legally, intentionally and responsibly with funds. The provisions of the Public Finance Act should also be taken into account in the payment of funds. In Article 54, paragraph 1, of the ZJFG provides that any expenditure in the budget for the underlying must have a reliable bookkeeping document showing the obligation to pay and, in the second paragraph, provides that the obligation arising from the authentic book of accounts before payment must be verified on the legal basis and on the level of the obligation. Article 3 of the STA Act provides that the sole founder and member of the STA Republic of Slovenia and that, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, the rights of a member shall be exercised by the RS Government, which may, for the performance of professional technical, organisational and development tasks under its responsibility, delegate individual government services. The right to take account of the operating documents of the STA shall be required at any time by the Participant to require whatever is also the result of Article 512 of the Company Act. By limiting the right to review the Charter and data, the STA prevented in 2020 the Republic of Slovenia from verifying the eligibility of payment of compensation for the performance of the public service of the STA, in which it also violated the contract number 81/219 on the performance of the public service in 2020 of 19 as a contracting party. 12. 2019 concluded by UKOM and STA. We further stress that the STA Supervisory Board has adopted a business plan for 2020 in which it is not clear what it needs to do, as indicated in the minimum amount at 2020 level, is EUR 2,028 million. The founder cannot agree to a flat-rate allocation of the amount to the same twelve as they have proposed without the actual accounting of the services rendered, as this would imply a non-discriminatory use of money. In addition, since the contract between the STA and the founder of UKOM for 2021 was not concluded, it was necessary to take into account the legal provisions of both the STA law and the provisions of the laws relating to the transparent use of public money, therefore UKOM had to verify, by law, the eligibility of the payment of the funds, whether the public service was actually carried out, to what extent and on the basis of this, to calculate the monthly amount of compensation for the public service. Any product or service, whether in the case of public goods or goods sold freely on the market, shall have its own cost of origin and the price at which it is sold on the market or the price for which it is paid from the State budget. As a call, let me point out that certain authors' fees are accounted for in exactly the same way, on the number of signs. Therefore, it is possible to stop the criteria and assess the price of the cost per unit of product. Following the reasonable application of the Law on Economic Public Services, which provides in Article 26 of the right of the founder of a public undertaking to decide on prices or tariffs for the use of public goods, the right of the Republic of Slovenia as the founder of the STA to finance the public service from the State’s resources is the right of the Republic of Slovenia to continue to know the cost of the public service per unit of the product. As a basic accounting standard, Ukom rightly expected that the costs of individual public service elements would be clearly and unequivocally worked out, as we have heard from some implementations. Let me rephrase some. Thus, for example, it was a cost, which was a cost for the preparation of a summary of the news, which covered three to four paragraphs, estimated at 13.46 euros, the cost of which covered only one paragraph at 16.35 euros. Of course, there was something else about these other violations, including the fact that the STA did not publish copyrighted photographs on its website, which would be accessible to everyone under the same conditions. It turned out that the STA services provided by the public service, which should have been made available to the public free of charge in accordance with the STA Act, were sold on the market. Likewise, the STA did not publish the text of radio news prepared for publication in the radio media in a way that would be accessible to all under the same conditions. The sound recording is the essence of every news, it was not available free of charge to everyone under the same conditions. Therefore, if the STA does not perform its public service in full, in full and correctly, in accordance with the provisions of the STA Act, it cannot be entitled to the full payment for this purpose. I reiterate that in the proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting, the applicants are summarising the statements made by the Director of STA Bojan Veselinović, who argues that the content of the public service regulation is not consistent with the Constitution or the laws defining the STA. As the Supreme Court has also decided, of course, they do not hold this claim in any way. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not, by adopting a Regulation on the enforcement of the public service of the STA, infringed any right and obligation of the STA which was not already laid down in the Act on the STA or which would not have been based on long-standing business practice between the STA and the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for communication. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by adopting a regulation, has merely defined the way in which social rights are exercised. In doing so, the exercise of its social rights made it more transparent, removing the possibility of different interpretations that were demonstrated in the performance of the public service of the STA in 2021. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in its decision repealing the suspension of the Regulation, also notes that the Regulation constitutes a legal act which contributes to clarifying the open issues between the Ukomo and the STA, which were otherwise governed by an annual contract. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia points out in point 17 of the decision that, however, the existence of the claimant’s assets position could be improved by the enforcement of the regulation, since the defendant’s compensation for the public service performed in 2021 is not subject to any regulation outside the substantive framework of the STA Act and the regulation does not alter the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia as the sole shareholder and founder of the STA and between the STA. If the regulation did not constitute an illegal act, it also follows from the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, where the Supreme Court even says, I would stress once again that the existing assets position of the claimant would be improved by implementing the regulation. Next. The Regulation does not give UKOM any additional control that UKOM would not already have on the basis of existing legislation and long-standing business practice between the State and UKOM. In the regulation, the government formalised long-standing business practice between the STA and UKOM, where UKOM had the competence to look into the documentation on the basis of its annual public service contract. The Regulation was therefore adopted in order to define the relationship more precisely, to define payment modalities and, of course, to establish a clearer difference between the public and market activities of the STA. STA filed an action for the repeal of the regulation and for its suspension, the Administrative Court held back the enforcement of the regulation and thus gave room for manoeuvre that it no longer sought a constructive solution. With the proposal to suspend the regulation, STA’s leadership caused more damage because the talks for a few weeks had stalled. Following a decision by the Supreme Court, the STA management re-established communication with UKOM and discussions on the contract continued. We must also point out that in the midst of SO sold alleged claims for the month of May, June and July. Therefore, the amount for the management of the public service for these months cannot even be forecasted by UK STA. For the month of August, the STA submitted an application for compensation for the management of the public service, without taking into account the decision of the STA Public Service Regulation. The UKOM was therefore obliged to reject the application and the STA requested information to verify the eligibility of payment of the monthly refund for the month of August. The application was submitted on 24 September, but to date there has been no reply. As soon as the Regulation enters into force, UKOM initiated activities to regulate its relationship with the State and, as a result, activities allowing the financing of the public service of the State. In addition, UKOM points out that STA was the one who, until the entry into force of the citation of the UKOM Regulation, did not recognise as a representative of the founder and therefore did not transmit to it what was, of course, due under the law of the dossier. So that these relations could only be regulated by the adoption of a regulation, of course. Once again, as UKOM sent a final version of the public service contract to UKOM on 20 July 2021, the value of the entire contract was estimated at EUR 2 million. However, the contract has not yet been concluded and UKOM has therefore, on 24 September 2021, in order to resolve the relationship as soon as possible, both in accordance with the regulation and the PKP7, invited the Director of the STA to send a report on the services provided so that at least one book deed on which the payment could be made could be carried out, but until that date UKM has not received the report. In such a way that the accounting instrument on the basis of which payment could be made does not also exist, but, of course, if there is no accounting instrument to be submitted to the Court of Auditors, then it is also clear to the Government that the financing cannot be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Can we go according to the list of candidates you now get a word or do you want us to skip? First it's Lidija Divac Mirnik as representative of the proposer and then Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u184	Thank you. Free media are essential for democracy and the goal of this government is to intervene in the journalistic editorial policy of the STA in order to control information in fact it is censored to turn the STA into a trumpet that will report one truth and, of course, paint the image of the emperor. Because, of course, the purpose of the Government was not to save the STA, because if it were to respect both the laws and the STA and the PKP 7, it would force the submission of the public service to destroy its independence. It is a national disgrace what this Government is actually doing with the media and the rule of law and the paradox yesterday in the SDS coalition, the NSI voted against compliance with the legislation in force and against the rule of law. The biggest paradox is that it has proposed this amendment of the PKP 7 and this is the one that once promised ethical standards and standards, and which it still has on the web site today, I quote: “The leading of our political action is the rule of law, the key is respect for and development of constitutionality and legality, justice and legal certainty.” [[Incomprehensible]] [[Incomprehensible]] Then others who voted against NSI in their programme yesterday quote: “We stand for a strong legal state, it must not be the law that is stronger, it must be the power of laws.” In the LMŠ we believe that it is necessary to respect the media, and in the LMŠ we believe that the STA is the one who is objective, works well and needs and must be protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u185	Thank you very much. A colleague would only warn you that you misnamed one of the clients in these pits. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. What can I say at the end of this barbarism if I put it that way? First, I have one problem. During the second Janša government, Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša seemed to me that UKOM was the leader of the Mag. Anže Logar and look at the fragment Mr Veselinović was the director of the STA. There was no such problem at the time. Probably what you now see was already then but I didn't go now to watch the overseers, then they all obviously acted intransparency at the time and somehow I, like you lady secretary of state, could drag some single mom out now and not finish the sentence. Now, next time. Anyway, we have a double lex specialis. We have a law that speaks about this particular very important institution in which Soni speaks, we have PKP 7, which is also a kind of lex specialis, because we have that 66th article and we have a Supreme Court decision, which Matthew said very nicely, where you always avoid when you mention in that key part of the government is due regardless of, three dots. All I'm going to say today is that the government's relationship is more important. WHAT has supervisors or they have done their job or not, if you do not have the opportunity to not know to propose new for false reasons to resolve, to bring new ones to the National Assembly, but you do not have so many votes. You told her over and over again, because we don't want anything, but it's always this one, but there's always one "if". [[…]] We don't want anything, but you want the positive discrimination of your government and the parties of the coalition, which are almost uncut off, and the SDS, and you want to keep the responsible bureaucrats on Ukom on top of it and count these blood cells. You've come back to this, even though in fact what you're reading, but your colleague Kaloh told you, my neighbor there, who likes to lie about me by the way. The editors then decide, the editors interpret and write these truths that you read to the MTV of different media, like that truth about me, I almost threaten to slaughter someone on your own. Now, in the end, I've done it, which is probably what's bothering you. You've set up a small million media outlets. There is a 3,4% owner of two thirds of them, my neighbor Kaloh, who is in charge of this in the SDS. And if that's gonna have a hallo effect and you're probably too fond of it. [[…]] I suppose you'd like the order for just one roof medium. Maybe that's why it's too expensive for you. I grew up on high-quality media in the '70s, '80s. I must be honest, I currently do not have one quality medium in Slovenia according to my minimum criteria. It's not your fault. I have a big problem that we are a country that does not have one serious economic diary or weekly. It used to be finance, but it's not anymore. I have serious problems because we don't have one more serious right-wing media. I have serious problems because we don't have one serious liberal or at least one, if you want one more serious one. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] a left-wing medium. These are some serious problems when we should also talk about how to ensure this and how to finance it, because if you see anything, you can see during this Covid epidemic how important it is. But this is another debate, not today's debate. Today's debate is, the government is obliged regardless, and the government does not fulfil this duty. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And as Matthew predicted, we'll probably have to make a constitutional accusation here, obviously. Good night, Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-08-SDZ8-Izredna-84.ana.u187	Thank you very much. A representative of the proposer, Janja Slug, has the floor. There's no message. The representative of the proposer shall have the floor, mag. Alenka Bratusek. She's not a colleague either. So all of you who have been reported have been given the floor. The time set for the debate has not yet expired, so I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I see there's no interest. I therefore conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Commission of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 84th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Good night and have a nice trip home.
