ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 57th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2), Article 60(2) and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 92nd meeting. 1. 2021. I inform you that Mr Franz Kramar, Member of the National Assembly, died in 2018-2022. We'll honor him with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] Praise him! I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Sonibo Knezak by 3 p.m., Samo Bevk, Predrag Baković, Matjaž Han and Jani Möderndorfer. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly pursuant to paragraph 93a of the Rules of Procedure, cooperation outside the meeting of the Assembly shall not be announced by any Member or Member. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be decided by the College of Presidents of the National Assembly by reference and shall not be voted on. Before moving on to the first item of the agenda, the National Assembly shall, on the basis of the second indent of the first paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, take note of the following decision: The National Assembly shall note that the term of office of Ambassador Franco Kramar has expired as a result of death. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate or candidate will replace or replace that Member. On the basis of a notification from the National Election Commission, the Mandate-Electorial Commission will draw up a report and propose to the National Assembly approval of the mandate. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON ADDITIONAL MEASURES FOR THE OBJECTIVES OF COVID-19 IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE USER PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Minister Janez Cigler King, will provide an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President, citizens and citizens, good afternoon! After a long working night, to stay in the company of Members and Members of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we are here today to discuss and adopt the eighth anti-Korona package of legislation. As you know, during this term, the Ministry of Labour is the holder of a wide range of intervention packages, and I am proud of the Ministry's team and the entire government team, as well as of all of you who are participating in the adoption of these important laws for our country, for our people. I would like to give you a brief additional presentation of proposals that represent a comprehensive response to the needs of our people and the economies in this wave of epidemic. The government is also addressing in this package the real hardships of the people we meet through the field work that you are alerting us to through your questions and discussions in this house, which citizens and citizens are also alerting us to with their messages. We have corrected and complemented some of the solidarity allowances in the PKP7 and have also included some vulnerable groups. I am confident that once again we will touch on the lives of many who warn us of many problems and hardships at a time when the epidemic is still persistent, it continues to persist in our lives, but we will also be able to do so together, and the virus will overcome it, including by means of measures from anti-Korona packages. The set of measures in the CAP proposal8 marks this time measures to preserve jobs and help the economy. We also give priority to comprehensive care for the elderly. Allow me to start by talking about bearer measures to preserve jobs and the economy. Our great concern is the provision of circumstances, the possibility of working processes running normally where possible, and the preservation of jobs where the epidemic has intervened in the normal course of economic activity. This preserves the work and life of many more than 300,000 employees who benefit from our actions, and in particular not to forget their families and companies, the companies where they are employed. If I start with labour market measures, I should like to point out in the first place that the labour market situation is being monitored, analysed and responded to. From 1 April 2020 to the end of January 2021, all intervention measures for the labour market, i.e. temporary waiting for work, quarantine, force majeure, reduced working hours and temporary compensation for the unemployed were paid together around EUR 433 million. Only a job-waiting measure has benefited or benefited almost 32,000 business entities. The key intervention measures that will help, help and are certainly crucial for the preservation of many jobs to this and others, are: the extension of the waiting at home or the subsidisation of this waiting at home for employees from 1 February 2021 to 30 April, with the possibility that the Government will extend this measure no more than twice a month, i.e. with the possibility of extending it until 30 June 2021. The second key intervention measure in the PKP8 is to subsidise or take over part of the burden due to the increase in the minimum wage that has just occurred in the first half of 2021. This is a measure of subsidisation of part of this increase and, in the second half, of decommissioning employers in the payment of social security contributions to workers in the labour relationship. As you know, with 1 January 2021 the minimum wage has been raised in accordance with the Minimum Wage Act. As Minister of Labour, I believe that workers and workers deserve a decent salary, and the net wages in Slovenia are too low, on the other hand we understand employers who will carry the heavy part of raising the minimum wage, even in these acute conditions of employment during the crown epidemic. That is why I have also made a personal commitment to raise the minimum wage, but at the same time I have proposed that a rise in the minimum wage should be temporarily subsidised by the State or temporarily take over part of the burden on employers. This is what we suggest to settle in the law that is before you. In the first half of the year, the proposed subsidy of EUR 50 per employee shall be set at the lowest basis for the payment of social contributions for workers who are not paid without an allowance of less than the minimum wage. The minimum basis for payment of social contributions will therefore be temporarily reduced from 60 per cent of the average wage to the minimum wage. To a certain extent, employers who are already in an unenviable situation due to the epidemic will be burdened and one administrative or bureaucratic obstacle will be removed as a result of the rise in the minimum wage. The employer, which is important, honourable Members and Members, will not, for another three months thereafter, be allowed to forgive workers for whom he received the subsidy or to forgive more workers for business reasons during the period of receiving the subsidy. Another very important measure for the labour market is the extension of waiting at home, i.e. the subsidisation of this waiting for employees, from 1 February to 30 June at the longest. Reimbursement of wages will be granted by all employers registered by 31 December 2020 at the latest and will, according to their estimate, fall by more than 20 per cent in 2021 due to the epidemic in 2019 and 2020 respectively. The measure is known, the measure is well-adopted by employers and also has favourable effects, favourable consequences for the labour market. On the other hand, we have completed it during this difficult period, going to those employers who are closed because of the government decision. Thus, for the time when the employer is banned from carrying out the activity due to a government decision, the remuneration paid by the State, including the remuneration, with all the taxes and contributions of the employer, will be reimbursed by the so-called second gross. The bill also eliminates the inequality of workers who received payment for or part of the December 2020 payment for business performance, such as Christmas, and were therefore not entitled to a crisis allowance. Although they did work this month, they were in a different position compared to those who received the payment for business performance paid in other months, for example in January. We are correcting this by means of the CAP proposal8 and by binding the payment or calculation of the receipt of the crisis allowance to pay in November 2020. If I move from these bearer measures to the labour market and to retain jobs to the area of solidarity allowances. With PKP7, we have provided a number of solidarity allowances for different groups of people: low-income pensioners, families with children and older low-income farmers and others. Proposal for a PKP8 by 31 March 2021 provides for the payment of a single solidarity allowance of EUR 50 for full-year pupils with permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia, who are trained or regularly educated in the school year 2020/2021 through public education programmes in the Republic of Slovenia. Solidarity allowance will also be given to students with permanent residence in Slovenia who are educated at a foreign higher education institution in the academic year 2020/2021. PKP8 envisages and proposes extending the range of beneficiaries to a single solidarity allowance also to disabled persons with extremely low cash receipts. A 150-euro solidarity allowance will also be granted to beneficiaries of disability benefits that work shorter hours, war veterans and disabled persons under the law governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. The solidarity allowance will also be granted to unemployed persons who have lost their jobs from 12 March 2020 until the entry into force of this Act. The single solidarity allowance is compatible with the cash compensation for unemployment or the temporary financial compensation for unemployment. It is estimated that these proposed measures will round up the range of solidarity allowances to help vulnerable groups of people. I am moving on to the third set of proposed measures in the CAP8, which is a set of measures to provide comprehensive care for the elderly. All measures taken so far in the area of care for the elderly have been taken in such a way that the financial burden cannot be passed on to the caregivers and their property. We know that this may be a serious financial burden for the family budget, but we have pursued the goal of taking on this financial burden by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me briefly summarize here what we have provided so far for the sets of existing PKP laws. More than EUR 56 million has been provided from all PKP measures so far, namely for the risk and hazard allowance, for specific burdens, assistance to home aid providers, home care allowance for withdrawals, coverage of income losses due to unoccupied capacity, costs for employees who have carried out health activities in institutional care providers, allowances for employees, financing of additional staff in institutional protection for two years, allowances for workers working in grey and red zone, monthly strategic supply of protective equipment, security equipment for workers in grey and the red zone for basic and social care and disinfection, coverage of income losses due to non-sustained capacities and reimbursement of home-suspension supplies. After 15 years, the first important steps in the field of human and spatial distress have been implemented over the past ten months. On this basis, the intervention laws further employ 541 persons with contracts concluded on employment, 116 persons currently employed in institutional protection through public works. On the basis of temporary and occasional work, 3 000 527 hours were spent in nursing homes, and 55,000 19 hours were spent in pupils and students. In doing so, I have also had the privilege of meeting some of these students and students, students, students who have made themselves available to help in the most difficult situations to help care for the most vulnerable in nursing homes, and I have assured them that this will remain in their hearts for ever, not only in their CVs or CVs. They were proud and grateful for this opportunity. We also build on these successful steps with new proposals. PKP proposal8 thus regulates the reimbursement of costs associated with oxygen treatment in persons with coronary disease in social and educational institutions that also carry out health care activities and in long-term care providers. One of the most important measures in the PKP proposal8 in the area of elder care is the possibility of carrying out an extended treatment relating to the time needed to recover. The population of the elderly, in particular those with associated chronic non-communicable diseases, falls into an extremely vulnerable category. The disease is often affected by the prolonged time needed to recover. As a result, the elderly cannot be forgiven for the absence of the necessary support in the home environment following the disease and completed hospital treatment. In the current situation of increased capacity needs for hospital treatment of covider-19 persons, it is essential to provide hospital facilities for hospital treatment, so that patients who cannot be discharged to their home environment after the completion of covida-19 treatment will be provided with extended treatment, including health care, physiotherapy and occupational therapy, with the aim of returning to their home environment and living alone as soon as possible. Additional facilities are therefore envisaged in facilities that meet the conditions for carrying out health activities with accommodation. The facilities and operators for extended treatment will be designated by the Minister responsible for health, providing for extended treatment to a person for a maximum period of 30 days. However, on the basis of the assessment of the responsible person, it will be possible to extend it no more than once. The funds for this purpose will, of course, be provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or from the funds derived from the budget of the European Union. Here, too, we make up a successful story by drawing on the European Union's resources. In 2020, by the way, the Ministry of Labour has absorbed 107 million European Union funds, which is indeed the most in recent years, in extremely difficult situations, under extreme pressure. A great success for the team and for Slovenia, which, of course, will also benefit from these funds through the measures. I remain concerned with the care of the elderly, to mention that all these measures are really intended to ensure that the care of the elderly in these difficult times is carried out as smoothly and at a high level as possible in the face of extremely limited spatial, human resources, financial capacity of social protection institutions. Here I want to thank all the teams that do this. PKP8 will also reimburse the costs of personal protective equipment for workers carrying out healthcare and health rehabilitation. The work in the grey and red zone and the costs of personal protective equipment represent a considerable financial burden for social security providers who provide institutional protection and therefore this proposal for action in the CAP8. According to the proposal of the law, the allowance for exposure and specific burdens during the covid-19 epidemic for members carrying out protection, rescue and assistance tasks will not be counted as income in the exercise of public funds rights, except in the case of exceptional cash assistance. We also allocate additional resources to the Red Cross and Karitas, targeted for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2021 for the implementation of additional aid to food recipients from the Fund for European Aid to the most vulnerable users. In addition, PKP8 provides the Red Cross with additional resources for the smooth implementation of activities under public authority. In the final part of this supplementary explanation, let me briefly mention some of the other measures proposed by the PKP8 and confirmed by the competent home committee yesterday. After the adoption of this law, the measure of subsidisation of reduced working time will then also allow natural persons who carry out agricultural activities and employ workers through employment contracts. So it's for farm owners. A proposal for a law proposes a temporary measure of full payment of social security contributions also for religious servants. The financial compensation due to the loss of income for agricultural holding holders and supplementary undertakings will also be recognised as being retroactive from 1 October 2020. By 30 June 2021, we extend the measure of compensation for the loss of revenues from the rail passenger transport operator, bus operators and the licence holder for the provision of road transport services which carry out occasional transport by combined vehicles. We also extend the measure to compensate for the drop-out in school transport by 24 June 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said, the PKP8 proposal is the substantive and logical continuation and upgrading of the existing intervention laws, which have been providing assistance to the population and the economy for 10 months now through the management of the consequences of the epidemic by mitigating the consequences of the epidemic and with the other assistance of the most vulnerable groups. We are addressing a number of areas and we are proving once again that, through joint work and rapid response, despite exceptional problems and also sometimes many obstacles, we can ensure those measures that our citizens, even the most vulnerable, and our companies, the employees, most need. I thank you for your help in preparing the proposal to all the ministries involved, to the fellow ministers, to the President of the Government, to the advisory group of Dr Matei Lahovnik and, honourable Members and Members, to all of you who are involved in the preparation and adoption of these solutions. I believe that with this bill we have again addressed a key topical issue and have put in place measures that will help individuals, the labour market, the economy in overcoming the covida-19 crisis. I ask you to support this law in order to help as quickly as possible and as efficiently as possible, and I wish a successful work to the well-respected assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft law on additional measures to mitigate the effects of covid-19 submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration. The representative of the proposer, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Janez Cigler King, first briefly presented the main solutions to the bill. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was presented by their representative and said that the proposed legislative text was not quite prepared. It contains a lot of wrong references and other nomotechnical irregularities. The Committee also received a joint opinion from the competent Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and the interested Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance on the Proposal for a Law on additional measures to mitigate the consequences of covid-19 and the proposal for a law support. The Commission notes, inter alia, that the proposed eighth package of interventions related to communicable disease aims to mitigate and address the effects of that disease on the economy, the labour market, labour relations, social protection and health care. Subsequently, a number of proposals and comments from interested and professional public have been submitted to the Committee, which have presented their views and comments in writing on the text of the law submitted. This was followed by a debate between Members and Members. I will not go into the details of what happened on the committee yesterday until 3 a.m., maybe there will be more time to talk about it further, in the debate. But in the debate, coalition representatives stressed that the measures taken by the bill would make an important contribution to the mitigation of the effects of the covid-19 epidemic. In their view, the bill is well prepared and comes at the right time. The key measures it brings are the preservation of jobs through the extension of subsidisation of waiting for work and the taking of part of the burden by the State to raise the minimum wage. An important measure is also the expansion of beneficiaries of solidarity allowances, whose beneficiaries will also be newly disabled and war veterans with low incomes. A single solidarity allowance will belong to students over 18 years of age who have dropped out of the previous package and to students who are educated in a foreign higher education institution. The measures are also envisaged in the area of agriculture and the measures are not only focused on the economy, but a lot of aid has also come directly to the people. The opposition, however, considered that the proposed measures were not consistent with the social partners, that they were too late, that they were ineffective and non-selective and cause confusion. I'm not going to go into detail here about what was going on. One of the discussers felt that it was necessary to think about the start of a small economy and independent activity, as it is possible to look too much at the epidemic with fear. The representatives of the opposition stressed that the Government should prepare measures in an integrated manner, with the participation of several stakeholders in order to act in the long term. The Minister explained that government measures in the field of the labour market have been deliberate and targeted at all times, and in the CAP8, these measures are still being upgraded. He stressed that it is much more expensive to create a new job than to maintain it. He rejected the evidence regarding the excessive number of measures, stating that the retention of about 300,000 jobs is information that speaks for itself. Finally, the Committee adopted amendments on the basis of which a complementary proposal is prepared, and then we voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The economic damage, according to analysts in Slovenia, is already very high and in the future it is expected to deteriorate significantly due to the epidemic and the measures. The international competitiveness of Slovenia itself will deteriorate and exports will start to rise to countries with smaller measures at the expense of lowering exports of Slovenia. In addition to the weakened economy within the country, this will drastically start to reduce gross social product due to the decline in Slovenia's exports. That is why it is difficult, but very important, to try to contain the epidemic on one hand and, on the other hand, to minimise the impact of the economy. The fact is that the economy is very, very affected. A solidarity allowance of 150 euros for Slovenians belonging to the most vulnerable groups is a fair measure that we absolutely support. Disability with extremely low monetary recipients, war veterans and especially war invalids would deserve even higher solidarity allowances, not that the government again gives absurd and unjust gifts to its electoral base from the Catholic Church. We also very much welcome the addition to the risk exposure and special burdens for members of the Civil Protection Service, which are one of the first on the battle line to combat the effects of the virus. In their work they often sacrifice themselves to protect us, Slovenians, because during the epidemic they are called upon to perform various tasks, often also difficult, unpleasant and even dangerous. It is also fair to Slovenian workers that the law provides that in granting a solidarity allowance the payment of business performance is not taken into account in the calculation of twice the minimum wage. The solidarity allowance was granted to those workers whose last salary did not exceed twice the minimum wage, and their payment for business performance was taken into account in the calculation. Since hospitality is one of the most affected industries due to the epidemic, we support the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia that the Government will consider placing guests in a special, lower VAT rate in the future. In neighbouring countries, in particular Austria, Germany and Hungary, they are already introducing lower VAT rates for guests. This will have positive effects not only on hospitality but also on people's social life at a time when the measures start to relax. The guest sector operates in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, which contributes particularly to the psychological well-being of people in the economy. Despite open inn facilities, both countries are significantly better off from an epidemiological point of view than in Slovenia, so that the government should think carefully about its current actions. We also support the proposal of the Police Union of Slovenia, which seeks to ensure equal treatment of workers working at the time of the epidemic under equal conditions in the field of the treatment of migrants and asylum seekers. Workers in the Centre for Foreigners are exposed daily to migrants, many of whom have confirmed covido-19 infection, and some even have less known diseases in our area. Despite some concerns about the PKP8, we will still support the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u8	Thank you, again, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The covid-19 epidemic on the economy, of course, has great consequences. That is why we are also in the economic and economic crisis, and this also undoubtedly affects the social situation of people. If we look at the analyses, these show that economic recovery will only be achieved somewhere in the second half of 2021. As far as unemployment is concerned, we can see that it has not grown in recent months, which is good data, and at the same time the Government helps people with various solidarity supplements. Such a sustainable state of the economy is also possible because Slovenia has maintained its reputation in the financial markets and therefore we can be more indebted, which is particularly important in this situation. The fact is that we are in very difficult times and if times are difficult, then they usually require us to make quick and responsible decisions, such as are beneficial and particularly helpful to those parts of the population most affected by the epidemic. The government has adopted eight intervention laws to alleviate the economic and social situation so far, and today the National Assembly will adopt this eighth, with every next intervention law addressing all those groups of people for whom the previous law has proved to be the most affected by the covid-19 epidemic. Thus, we have already divided a lot of aid into seven packages, taking into account virtually all categories of the population. In the PKP8, we also cover some other categories of solidarity – students, disabled people who are on disability leave – while at the same time correcting the inequality created in the seventh anti-Korona package by a 200 euro crisis allowance for workers. It is particularly important that we have helped not only the economy and tourism with all the aid packages so far, but also directly to the people. Pensioners have already received a solidarity allowance of between 130 and 300 euros twice, of course depending on the amount of the pension. A solidarity allowance for pupils of EUR 50 is provided for full-year pupils with permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia. All these measures, in particular those linked to the labour market, have so far retained some 300,000 jobs. PKP 8 also includes some new categories among the recipients of the solidarity allowance: students studying abroad – 150 euros – the unemployed who have lost their jobs after 12 March 2020 and are still unemployed – a solidarity allowance of 150 euros – as well as war veterans and invalids with a solidarity allowance of 150 euros. Personally, I am very happy or particularly pleased at this, as we have repeatedly warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the lowest invalidity pensions should be raised at least to the level of social assistance. It is also very important that we establish a system of remuneration for those healthcare workers who are most burdened with caring for the elderly in DSOs and hospitals. Through monthly basic income, we have solved the pressures of self-employed and micro-enterprises. In one of the packages we provided an additional €31 million for institutional protection, which was particularly important because the most vulnerable groups due to covid-19 are quite the elderly. We also extended the subsidisation of the waiting period with PKP8 at least until the end of April 2021. The state will also take over part of the burden of raising the minimum wage, and employers will receive a 50-euro subsidy for those who do not receive a minimum wage without additions. Moreover, the government also went against the unions and eliminated the unequal treatment of employees in payment of the 200 euro crisis allowance. Following the application of the CAP8, all private sector workers will be entitled to the payment of the crisis allowance. If I can sum it up. The current sustainable economic situation, if we can say so, can be attributed to timely, effective and, above all, targeted measures that support the social most vulnerable groups, those for which we have been fighting in our party since the beginning; that is, people with disabilities, pensioners, employees who receive minimum wages. For them too, the state has taken over part of the burden of raising the minimum wage. Employers will also receive a 50-euro subsidy for those who do not achieve minimum wage without the additions. Of course, we will be able to add to the debate what the eighth PKP package brings. That would be in the position of the Group of Members. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u10	Your Honor! What can we get from a government that believes it is self-sufficient? What can we get from a government that does not respect anyone who refuses social dialogue, who knows everything and can do it on its own? We get a chaotic state, a chaotic state in society. We get confused about solving the epidemic and its consequences. Let's just see how the government didn't know how to find a solution to the last closing and opening schools. They weren't even looking for a way to protect homes for the elderly. We have a curfew for over 100 days, one of the longest lockdowns, the longest one that has catastrophic consequences for the entire society. But despite all the measures, Slovenia is still at the top of the dead, unfortunately, and the situation is still not calming down. The government failed in all areas of epidemic control and failed to resolve businesses and craftsmen which had to close their activities on the basis of a government decree in October. From October 19th, when the epidemic was declared, until today, the Government for these companies and craftsmen has still not found effective solutions. She didn't find them for her holiday workers or for her young. It's getting harder to get rid of the feeling that the government is making fun of them. Why do we think that? Because the government promises to find solutions for them at every time they adopt the CAP, but there are no and no solutions for them. The 8th PKP is similar. And let me remind you of which entrepreneurs we've been talking about for the last three months, for whom we want to find a solution in the LMŠ. They really aren't big, but they're all over the soul and the heart in entrepreneurship. We are talking about those who are not allowed to work because of government decisions, we are talking about businesses and tourism craftsmen, tourist carriers, innkeepers. We are talking about the entire industry of meetings, and trades in non-essential goods, beauty salons, also dogs hairdressers, car washes and even an hour could list all those who have had the same problem for months – the machete attitude of the government, especially in the second wave. In the first wave, co-financing of waiting for work was a good measure that saved many jobs and businesses, but in the second wave this measure is simply not enough despite full funding, it is halved. We believe in the LMŠ that both jobs and those who create and provide jobs must be tackled in a related way. These are companies and craftsmen. If we don't save them too, the epidemic workers will have nowhere else to go, and unemployment will go to heaven. Therefore, since autumn in LMŠ, we have been proposing to the Government that all closed companies and craftsmen be reimbursed in a fair, proportionate and simple manner, just as they have done in neighbouring Austria. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this government does not respect people, does not respect their work and efforts. There is no strategy for addressing the epidemic, except in other areas relevant to the country. In our opinion, a simple government team has not grown up to these difficult situations, which they prove from day to day. You could say that government ladies and gentlemen have reached a point where they are no longer able to hide their incompetence and the damage they are doing to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members and all others present, welcome! It is the task of each government to make such decisions at a time of crisis, economic, social, health, which will contribute to greater predictability of the conditions for the operation of businesses and, in particular, the lives of individuals who strengthen social solidarity and the organisation of society to deal with the consequences of the crisis and contribute to a general sense of security. In the epidemiological crisis we are facing today, such decisions are all the more important as they must contribute to strengthening people's confidence in government decisions. Only if decisions are understandable, fair and prudent will people be motivated to act responsibly and to respect measures to limit the spread of the virus. Today, the eighth anti-Korona package, with which the Government continues to be well-run, is a good practice of taking intervention measures, as every new package of intervention legislation ignores a number of calls from stakeholders and the professional public as well, or temporary measures are being taken that are necessary, due to inadequacy and also to ineffectiveness in practice, to be rectified over and over again. The categorical acceptance of anti-Korona marriage packages and their complexity create legal confusion and unpredictability. The report on the consideration of the draft law on the home committee clearly states on the fourth page the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, “The application of the nomotechnic approach constitutes an example of fragmented and more difficult legal regulation which makes it difficult for legal persons to be informed of their legal situation, which leads to legal uncertainty and serious confidence protection in law and also constitutes an infringement of the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution”. This time, too, the opposition parliamentary groups were unable to propose those measures that we believe are essential in order to contribute to a more effective response to the epidemic. There was no vote on the application of the business regulation on the home working committee on our proposal that all employees who were ill after covido-19 or who had been infected with the virus would receive a 100 % wage replacement, whether or not the infection occurred in the workplace. This change would eliminate the risk of a practice whereby employers may not want to recognise an infection in the workplace. They would prevent the risk of coming to work of those employees who do not have signs or have only slight signs of infection, and because of the threat of wage cuts they are not motivated to go to the test or stay at home and thus prevent the spread of the infection. On the contrary, there will still be a risk that many employees, due to the threat that their salaries will be reduced due to their absence from work, prefer to go to work sick instead of encouraging businesses and employees to act responsibly with effective assistance to preserve their financial position, the Government would rather prohibit and threaten anyone who violates the decisions it is restricting the movement and collection of people. The strategy to combat communicable diseases, based primarily on meaningless and contradictory prohibitions and the fear of people with high penalties, has its limitations, as it very quickly raises resistance and doubts about the usefulness of compliance with the rules, which we can observe in these days in the protests about the re-closure of kindergartens and schools in the coastal and coastal and saviatic static regions. In addition, this time a package of anti-korona measures also includes subcontractors representing changes to systemic laws or measures that would otherwise not have been adopted unless they were proposed in the package. This time it is an attempt to introduce a new offence in the Infectious Diseases Act, for which the Legal and Legal Service has clearly written that it does not meet the basic conditions. If the ruling coalition proposes and votes in favour of the amendment, rejecting this article into law will also pave the way for the law to be reviewed by the Constitutional Court. I could still count, but time doesn't allow me. We wanted to pay back what also belongs to students and students who study abroad and who were unjustly released. We managed with our proposals to get a one-time supplement, but other students and students living in Slovenia received a double of €300, not 150. And we could also list such measures, we will continue to do so, but we really want everyone to understand that no one should be released and that we must be fair to everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respected and respected! When we confirmed the first antikron package last April and met with the virus that became our common enemy for only a few weeks, we wanted to stop counting the sick and die as soon as possible. At that time, we promised to do everything in our power to contain this epidemic. Covid-19 still cripples society and makes our daily lives more difficult. We accept this and no, we will not find the culprits for something bigger than us, but it is difficult to accept that we have not done enough to help citizens and citizens and many social subsystems. If that were the case, we would not be taking the eighth anti-Korona package today, which brings additional measures to preserve jobs and help the economy. The measures we have on the table today include subsidisation of the minimum wage in the first half of 2021 and, in the second half of the year, the decommissioning of employers in the payment of social security contributions to workers in the labour relationship and the extension of the waiting period from 1 February to 30 April, with the possibility of a double extension for one month. This measure preserves the employment of citizens and citizens in an important part. The proposal also provides for a 100 % coverage of the costs for salaries and contributions incurred by the employer with the employees who are waiting for work, and this applies to all those activities which are closed by government decisions. In the SMC, we believe that this is a well-thought-out measure that will allow companies to remain in good shape and thus avoid forgiveness. The fact is that many companies are in an extremely difficult, unenviable situation. That is why this legislative package is even more welcome and still necessary, as it will make an important contribution to the pardon and remedy the negative consequences of the epidemic. In the SMC during the drafting of the law, we also pointed out the elimination of inequalities between workers who received payment for business performance in December and were therefore not entitled to a crisis allowance. We are pleased that an allowance of up to 200 euros will be paid to these workers with a January salary. Compared to the previous legislative package, there is a wide range of beneficiaries to a single solidarity allowance. Among other things, the SMC proposal has been taken into account to ensure that students over 18 years of age are eligible for a 50-euro solidarity allowance. Similarly, the solidarity allowance of up to 300 will be granted to beneficiaries of disability benefits, working part-time, veterans of war, disabled persons and disabled persons under the Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities. Students with permanent residence in Slovenia who are educated abroad will also be eligible for an allowance of 150 euros. Finally, a €150 one-off allowance will be paid to unemployed people who lost their jobs after last March 12th or after the first outbreak. Assistance is also provided to Karitas and the Red Cross. In the SMC, we believe that we have managed to manage and mitigate the economic and social crisis with all the anti-Korona packages we have adopted so far. This is also evidenced by the fact that up to now about EUR 2.5 billion has been paid or realised in various aids to the economy and people. A broader view of the situation shows that this crisis is more difficult than it was 12 years ago. But in doing so, we can be pleased that it has not broken large businesses and that unemployment has increased significantly less than originally predicted. The government’s rapid and decisive response, which was at the time of the outbreak and during the first wave, was crucial, as further anti-korona packages were being adapted and, more importantly, acted quickly. All of this means that the economic consequences of this crisis are significantly lower than they would have been without all the measures that have been put in place so far. It is necessary to pour pure wine and realize that the first months of this year will be difficult for the economy, while at the SMC we believe that some optimism can already grow into the second half of the year, which must be followed by the recovery of society in all areas. As soon as possible, focus should be placed on the exit strategy and on the preparation of targeted calls for rapid recovery and the facilitation of vulnerable activities, particularly tourism and hospitality. In the SMC, we welcome and support solutions to the eighth anti-korona package. All these measures are important not only to make it easier for us to go through the epidemic but also to be well prepared for life after it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u16	The covida-19 epidemic persists in 2021 and the inability of the government of Janez Janša to respond to it as well. Help does not come to people, social distress and mental breakdowns multiply. Over 3,000 dead — the third worst picture in the world — is the most direct tragic tax on government incompetence. But so much the better for the friends of the government of Janez Janša, the criminal associations with which he openly shares power, and the capitalist class. In all the billions for which the government has entrusted the country, only 370 million have been poured into support for the people. Five times more, a thousand 700 million, or 1.7 billion, have been allocated to capital — so far. The PKP8 also continues with the support of managers and owners, leaving the working class back on track. For example, we all know that infections occur in workplaces. These infections are women of presentationism; workers leave for work even though they are infected because they are afraid of slipping into poverty. Instead of providing them with 100 % compensation and social security in the event of infection, such as in Germany, Austria and Croatia, the compensation remains lower than already modest labour salaries, and the government has made the procedure more complicated to the surface. Moreover, the PKP8 itself has prepared a way that a fair compensation for infected workers from the parliamentary bench cannot be entered into it at all. In short, the Government will not provide full compensation to workers who have symptoms of infection and should stay at home, but will provide compensation to their employers, who often force these workers to work even when they are sick or infected. For the increase of the minimum wage provided by law, the Government rewards them with cuts in contributions to pension and health allowance and direct subsidies. Yes, you have just heard, 50 euros a month will be paid for every minimum wage by capitalists who already earn so much at the brutal disembowelment of workers. This reward will also be given to employers who are not affected by the co-vide and even to those who are — beware! – which, precisely because of the covido, increased their profits. The policy of low wages, social dumping and unfair competition towards employers who pay slightly more decent wages is obviously not something that is problematic or persecuted under Janez Janša. According to the Hungarian example, development into underdevelopment by parasitizing workers has become a virtue in the state budget. Similarly, the eighth government has been working with youths. Student workers are again or still without help for lost student work; let them find themselves as they know and know. How much the SDS government doesn't like educated and smart people, as well as an intervention into the number of admissions to colleges. Newly, Janez Janša would have personally commanded future students what they could study and what they could not do, as if it were not enough to destroy their one year of secondary education. We don't have too many humanists, people who think of society, there's only one defender who can't run this society, so he decided to terrorise it. The longest closing of schools in Europe, uncertainty about their studies and the future is not the graduation that students deserve, at all by the government, which would fall at the graduation, such as long and wide – at least for mathematics, Slovenian and history, we can certainly say that. But at least that in a series of government attacks, at the time of the public university, we were able to stop with the amendment yesterday. Of course, the coalition class wants to reinstate it right now. As you can expect, socialists will defend public use of the mind, just as we will try to convince the National Assembly until the last time, that the poverty of finance for material and health services in the middle of the epidemic is probably one of the most insane ideas that we have heard in recent months, and competition is very severe.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Alexander Reberšek, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! PKP8 provides additional measures to preserve jobs and help the economy in acute covid-19 epidemic situations, including extending subsidised waiting for work and taking over part of the burden of raising the minimum wage by the State. At the initiative of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will also receive a single solidarity allowance for full-year students who were released in the previous package. In this PKP package, we are correcting what we left accidentally in the previous package. We also listened to Slovenian students with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia who are studying abroad. They will receive a single solidarity allowance of 150 euros. In particular, I am proud and pleased to hear that we have listened to our weakest citizens, those with the lowest income, 150 euros of allowances will be paid to beneficiaries of disability benefits who work shorter hours and to persons with disabilities under the law governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. Workers also receive a crisis allowance. The proposal to amend the law eliminates the inequality between workers who received payment for or only part of their business performance in December at Christmastime and were therefore not entitled to a 200 euro crisis allowance. Although these workers also worked this month, they received payments in other months, for example in January, according to workers who paid for their business performance, such as Christmas. The amendment follows closely the purpose of the crisis allowance. With all anti-korona packages, we keep jobs and help the economy. We are saving 300,000 jobs through a job-waiting measure. While in the left-wing opposition they speak and invest legislation they like, we save 300,000 jobs. The proposal for a law regulates additional measures to preserve jobs and help the economy in acute covid epidemics. We extend the waiting procedure for the period from 1 February to 30 April with the possibility of extending the measure by a decision of the Government two more times a month. The Ministry of Labour has invested a great deal of effort and effort in subsidising minimum wages and decommissioning of employers. The State will allocate a 50-euro subsidy to employers for the salaries of those workers whose wages are unpaid. The subsidy shall be fixed for the work carried out in the months from January to including June 2021. In the second half of 2021, we will burden employers with the payment of social security contributions to workers in the labour market. We have established a lower, minimum basis for paying the social security contribution to workers in the labour relationship. The minimum base will therefore be paid for salaries for the month from July 2021 to December 2021. Until 31st. 12. 2021 We extend the possibility that employees can benefit from three days of absence without a certificate of reasonable retention from the work issued by the selected personal physician, not more than once in each calendar year. The 8th Prokron package will be unanimously supported in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, esteemed colleagues! The bill before us today is the eighth in a row to address the Coronavirus epidemic and, above all, its consequences. As usual, this proposal concerns large financial contributions. 320 million. We certainly welcome the fact that the Government has addressed the difficult economic situation and has extended some measures that have proved to be effective, such as measures in the field of motor vehicles. Of course, in the marriage text, we again found some subjugations that opposition parties with amendments, more than unsuccessfully, tried to remove from the legal matter. In the SAB Group, on a proposal for a law, we tabled a supplement to Article 34, which, following the example of Germany, again proposed to provide three FFP2 masks to all over 65 years of age. The masks would be taken over by the beneficiaries at the pharmacy with a health insurance card. The funds to be laid down by the pharmacy should be applied by 5 months of application for reimbursement at the Institute of Health Insurance, which should be reimbursed by 10 months. The fact is also highlighted by Slovenian infectologist Andrej Trampuž, who operates in Germany, that we will have to deal with the epidemic in a different way, while protecting older and risk groups. Since the FFP2 mask provides adequate protection for both the one it wears and the other individuals, it is estimated that providing masks for this type of older, which are also a risk soup, is a suitable measure for further dealing with the epidemic. Experts, as well as the Government itself, have already pointed to the third wave of the epidemic due to the English strain. With the amendment, we have successfully achieved the deletion of Article 16, which proposed a permanent legislative amendment that would add an offence during the criminal provision which would allow the sanctioning of practices contrary to programmes for the prevention, control, elimination and eradication of communicable diseases. The law-law service also drew attention to the dispute in that article. We have also proposed deleting Article 26, which provides for a lower base on which social security contributions are paid to workers to raise the minimum wage paid by employers from July to December 2021. In the SAB Group, we believe that instead of dealing with the epidemic, the Government has consistently granted discharges and ratings to the Catholic Church. With PKP8, the Government wants to pay the full amount of social security contributions from religious officials with all the other assistance that the Catholic Church has already received. Despite the fact that the increase in coverage of social security contributions paid by the State to religious officials has already been taken over in previous anti-Korona packages and despite the fact that the payment of contributions to religious officials by the State does not depend on the epidemic. In addition to the above, the Church, as owner of forests, also receives subsidies in the field of agriculture. The peak, however, is undoubtedly €700 of basic income for religious employees in the PKP7, resulting in a significant increase in the number of students, pensioners, unemployed and other vulnerable groups. In the SAB Group, we have therefore proposed, together with the opposition, that paragraphs 32, 33 be deleted because they are not among the measures to help end the second wave of the coronary epidemic. Most of the SAB proposals and other opposition groups we signed were rejected. However, what we can stress and highlight will be repeated; the government has failed to manage the epidemic on all fronts. Restrictive measures do not produce real results, public health is cracking through the stitches, and the number of deaths is still too high. These are the facts that tell us everything. Janša’s government has taken up matters for the smoke screen of covida-19 that are not necessary or necessary to solve the epidemic and the health crisis. Moreover, they may cause more damage than the epidemic itself. Government priorities are obvious, as we can see, elsewhere. This is not how we will support the bill in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep presented the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting to everyone! On 4 March 2020, the first infection with a new coronary virus was officially recorded in Slovenia. On 12 March, the government declared the epidemic, on 18 March 2020, we had already adopted the first intervention measures in various areas and only two weeks after that, the first so-called anti-Korona package of measures to contain the covid-19 epidemic. No one then imagined that this virus would have such an impact on every aspect of our lives, both at national level and on a global scale. Since March 2020, we have been taking anti-Korona packages practically monthly. This time we treat the eighth one in a row. This is not yet concluded in Parliament, the PKP9 is already forecasting. Which PKP will end the country's intervention, nobody knows today and nobody hopes to predict it. The fact is that each of the anti-Korona laws reflects an exceptional situation, a reflection of the management of the situation and a long-term reduction of the harmful consequences for the population and the economy. This exceptional situation needs to be responded quickly and sometimes maintains criticism that some group of people in the PKP package remain overlooked. However, any response, any further comments shall be examined and justified subsequently included in the next PKP package. We certainly have to admit that. Key solutions to this time PKP8 are: extending the subsidisation of waiting until the end of April, lifting part of the burden to employers due to an increase in the minimum wage of EUR 50 in the second half of this year, a single solidarity allowance for full-year pupils, for students educated abroad, for beneficiaries of reduced-time disability benefits, for war veterans and disabled persons, extending the assistance of road and rail passenger transport operators and school carriers. As an extremely important measure, which we welcome in the Desus Group, extended treatment, medical care, physiotherapy and working therapy for older people who need additional hospital treatment after their illness, and for those who cannot be released into the home environment. And I could count it. The financial assessment of the current PKP measures is estimated at €7 billion. The value of this time’s measures is €320 million. At the same time, the scope of all the measures implemented by the CAP, according to the Fiscal Council, has so far been EUR 2.9 billion, much less than the government has estimated. The predominant measures concern job conservation measures, temporary waiting for work, payment of contributions, basic income, subsidisation of part-time work and the like. These are enormous financial resources designed to help citizens and the economy, which will have to be returned by generations of our craftsmen. However, as Member Desus, I should point out that every year when the budget was adopted, a great deal of effort was needed to remedy the injustice of pensioners, representing five million for 1 per cent of the reconciliation of pensions at the monthly level. Many times this has been too much of a financial supply, and our demands have simply collapsed. In the Desus Group, we regret that the services of the National Assembly were marked yesterday at a meeting of the working body as an unacceptable amendment, which envisaged the deletion of compulsory retirement measures. Members of our Desus Group have already pointed out constitutional controversy and nonconsistentity with a pension system aimed at prolonging work activity. One more thing I have to point out at last night's meeting. We've been listening to calls from college, students and students about college enrollment invitations. The latter will be possible without the government's consent, as it did last year, of course if the amendment is not adopted. In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the PKP8 proposal. We hope that the number of this package represents one last. This would mean that we will finally emerge from the clutches of this microscopic small virus, which has turned even the earth’s surface in the opposite direction. In the future, we must look to the optimism that tomorrow will be at least as it has been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the provision of the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the National Assembly, in the second reading of the draft law, shall hold a discussion under the individual articles to which the amendments have been tabled. On the contrary, it has happened twice that there has been no discussion with the other articles or amendments in the first article, in which we allow a slightly broader debate. So I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. An application for a debate shall be made. The first one has the word Tadej Shuštar. Would you like a motioner? The first shall have the floor of the proposer. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members, all those who have presented the views of the groups of Members! I really listened very carefully to your views. Some of you have not explicitly stated what your vote will be or what your position is, but you have defined yourself for individual proposed measures, and some have made it clear how you feel about the whole law. I certainly see that we are working together to help the economy, in particular to maintain jobs in this difficult time and to help the widest possible range of vulnerable groups. In this respect, I thank you for this support. I must say that even after a difficult debate, the chairman of the parental committee has mentioned something that she will comment on later, even after a difficult debate until the early hours of the morning at night on the parental committee, I maintain optimism and hope that we will be able to help our society's key systems and subsystems together in this very difficult, unpredictable time of epidemic and all the pressures that come with it and will continue to be between us for some time. Let me substantiate my initial complementary explanation with some optimistic data, why we are more confident that labour market measures through intervention laws have so far helped to maintain almost 300,000 jobs. Because we see such a European comparison as regards the rise in unemployment rates. In Slovenia too, unfortunately, it grew in the first wave until about two-thirds of May, then it turned around and began to fall, and then it began to increase again in October and it rose somewhere until mid-January. Which is good news and also a reason for moderate optimism, and in particular confirmation that the government measures that you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament have also helped to take to the aid of the labour market to arrest them. Here I thank you, and also on the other hand the economy, in fact all the social partners. In this case, I am truly grateful, and in the Government, we are grateful that our employers have heard our predictions, our assurances, and we have believed and trusted them, and we have not misused this trust to help. And they didn't go into mass pardons. They didn't go into mass pardons! Without these measures, the picture of the labour market could certainly be much more sad, and I can tell you that we have reason to be moderately optimistic, that the last two weeks have been dying, that the influx into the unemployment register is actually dying, and that is even more encouraging, and shows some healthy environment even during this difficult time in the labour market, that the outflow from the unemployment register has been stable since the beginning of this year since 4 January. Some 300 people are written out of unemployment records daily, only slightly lower is the number of this outflow to employment, which is most important. The healthiest, most desirable thing is that the unemployed go from unemployment records to employment. This confirms even more that our task now is to bring species together in the fight against the virus, so that we can put an end to this epidemic and this situation together as quickly and as effectively as possible so that the activities that are unfortunately stopped can be opened as possible. In particular, service activities, which will also guarantee this, I believe, and thus direct our intervention and other structural measures at the Ministry of Labour and Government to help the economy and Slovenia achieve a good turnout immediately after the epidemic. Perhaps because I am just commenting on these measures for the labour market, I will mention today's good news. We've received another tranche of money from the SURE system or fund. This is a fund set up by the European Union to help Member States adopt and fund measures for the labour market. Slovenia has responded quickly here, with these teams that we have at the ministries, the government, with teams that have been burdened with – at least for their ministry, I can say with all responsibility – with the fight against the virus and have prepared good grounds for the efficient use of these funds. For this is essential, that measures are such that the economy can use them for its own good, in keeping jobs. So much so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Tadej Shuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u26	Thank you, President, for your word. First of all, I welcome everyone, the minister and all the other colleagues! PKP8 was a law that we heard a lot about yesterday. Most importantly, it is written for people, for families, for students, for workers, for employers, for unemployed, for students, for employees in health care or for the homes of older citizens and elsewhere. The law reduces the harmful effects of the epidemic on the economy and on the population, maintains a flexible labour market and prevents overcrowding and thus retains jobs. The measure of subsidisation of waiting at home is being extended, as we are aware that maintaining a job for the country is much cheaper than creating a new job. In New Slovenia, we want a healthy person to get a job, not the Employment and Social Assistance Institute. With the measures we are considering today, we are saving 300,000 jobs. With effect from 1 January, a law was in force that raises the minimum wage and mentions of Members to whom we witnessed yesterday that the Minister against the raising of the minimum wage does not drink water. We are aware that in the economic crisis, raising the minimum wage for entrepreneurs is difficult and we are merely striving to maintain jobs, we have decided to subsidise part of the wage increase in the first half of 2021 in the workers' well-being, and in the second half of 2021 we are burdening employers with work on social and pension security contributions. The State will allocate 50 euro subsidy to employers for the salaries of those workers whose salaries are not paid without the minimum wage. The subsidy shall be fixed for the work carried out in the months from January to including June 2021. Slovenia is one of the countries in the European Union that has the lowest unemployment rate. This reached 4.7 per cent in December and thus Slovenia ranks seventh in the unemployment rate, which we can be proud of, we can maintain so many jobs with all the measures from the CAP1 to the PKP7, and I hope that this will continue with the CAP8. In addition to all these measures for PKO8 jobs, we are also considering some solidarity supplements, namely, the solidarity allowance of €50 will be given to all full-year students who have been released from the previous PKP7 Act, students who study abroad and who have permanent residence in Slovenia will receive 150 euros, as these have also fallen out of the previous law. We have not even forgotten about people with very low incomes, and all of them will receive an additional €150 to make it easier for them to survive this epidemic. The law also provides for reimbursement of costs to health and social institutions that need protective equipment for their work, as we are aware that this is a great burden for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The minister did not respond to any critical comment, but he painted castles in the clouds, how wonderful everything is. PKP8 was created on the basis that there is not exactly any analysis of the measures, and the government somehow pretends to give some to the citizens, in fact the government owes itself on our behalf and then divides and spends according to some of its personal affinities, lobbyist contacts, finance the interest groups and so on. Our country spends so much on average, three times as fast as we do in other euro area countries, the growth in youth unemployment is the fastest in the European Union – the average growth of unemployed young people is 15 percent, and in Slovenia it is 35 percent – only because anti-korona measures focus mainly on regular employment. Of course, young people are again exempted from these measures, there is no compensation for losing their student income, no compensation and no assistance in paying rent, none of it. While the government is handing out candy to religious officials again. They are given higher social security contributions and contributions will now go from 48 per cent to 100 per cent of the average wage, while self-employed people in culture account for contributions from the minimum wage. This seems unacceptable to me, especially in the principle of equality, only if I point out that self-employed people, when they work and if the Government does not prevent them, put out their accounts, pay their income, contribute to the pension and income registers, and then it is understandable from this pool that the state is helping them. Religious officials are fully privileged. As it is said, they will receive 460 euros a month, while one self-employed 402. This is totally unacceptable and, of course, unfair from our point of view. We also have the worst epidemiological picture. There are only two states ahead of us. Why? Because there's a presentation going on. The government did not provide 100 percent of the compensation for those workers who are ill with co-vids, and workers who are already underpaid already go to work sick, contagious, because otherwise they would not be able to survive their families. This is one of the major capital nonsense that this government is doing. In short, that's exactly why we have such a bad epidemiological picture. And spending, as I said before, is arbitrary and conditional on political interests. You say you've saved 300,000 jobs and you've stood up for a minimum wage. The former government voted on the proposal of the Left to raise the minimum wage, but you immediately jumped to help employers and to allow them not to pay the full contributions, thus making the health and pension bills empty. This is unacceptable, but I'm sure your employers are grateful. I will slowly conclude my debate; the law is unimaginable, lobby, clientelistic, prone to only certain groups and according to the Fiscal Council we have spent almost 3 billion euros, of which 1.7 billion have been allocated to private capital, for workers and the population only 370 million. This law adds even more and more to this private capital. Therefore, if they do not pay full contributions to underpaid workers and if they have suffered a loss of income, they have both a lot of opportunities for compensation in another way. In short, unfortunately, the government didn't talk to the unions either. She sent some people to all the meetings who didn't have a mandate to make deals. In short, the PKP does not contain exactly any provisions for relaunching education. Now you've seen that the kids have already resisted, they want to go to school, they can't be home anymore, they can't stay away from the zoom to listen to a lecture. But you don't care about anything. In Italy, for example, because we are not the only ones in the world, you would see if you do not want to hear from the opposition at all, and if you are so sufficient and wiser yourself, look at the neighbouring countries, Austria, Italy, wherever, Germany, and you will see how the German Chancellor speaks to her citizens. [[…]] And here's just intimidation and intimidation. In Italy, for example, they hired 60,000 teachers and 30,000 support staff to help. You don't hear Swiz, not the citizens, not the children. The worst thing that seems to me, however, is the constant fear and threat: if you don't do well, you won't get support, you won't get money or follow the punishment. And so in this PKP8, there is a penalty of between €4,000 and €100,000 for a legal person for an offence to be determined by the Minister of Health, Janez Janša. We couldn't figure it out, so we insisted on hours and hours last night. Thus, you will punish citizens or legal persons if they fail or if they violate anything. In short, I can't possibly understand this kind of folly of this government and this arrogance, which is so convinced of its right not to hear anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u30	Thank you, President, for your word. If anything, it is clear that the epidemic will still not end so quickly. Companies and citizens are in increasing difficulty and after seven PKP packages, however, it would be time for the eightth time to address problems in a comprehensive and effective manner for all. I'm going to list some reasons why we don't think that solving the consequences of the epidemic is the right way in the List of Marjan Sarcas. In our view, measures are not sufficiently effective. If we just look at the realization of an estimated 2.3 billion out of the 7 billion planned aid. Companies have been waiting too long for help, and in the meantime they are forced to draw on their own resources to the extent that they still have them, and thus are further financially exhausted. The recovery of funds or aid from the State of the company is expected for a month or more. The measures do not cover all vulnerable groups. Again, it is not addressed to a sufficient extent by students, penitential workers, young people. The measures are illogical, illogical. I'll put two cases here. In practice, you do not distinguish between measures for undertakings prohibited from carrying out an activity and those undertakings which are able to carry out an activity. The payment of the rent shall be subsidised to certain undertakings. Thus, in so far as they rent commercial premises from the municipality or the state, those who rent commercial premises from private persons or private-owned premises shall not be granted this subsidy. And that's discrimination against companies. As far as the economy is concerned, measures are more focused on preserving jobs, which of course we do not oppose, but more focus should also be given to the survival of businesses themselves. In fact, if the company fails during this epidemic, these workers will have nowhere to go. Measures should be more selective, meaning that they should take into account the individual characteristics and needs of all those who need assistance. We therefore propose that measures should be separated between companies that are not allowed to operate and those that are able to do so; in order to take account of the specificities of the industries, such as hospitality or the high-tech industry, they have a completely different structure of fixed, variable costs. Current measures do not take this specification into account. Finally, the specifics of individual social groups should also be taken into account. If I give you an example, financial assistance to 150 euro students. This help was given to all students, whether they come from wealthy or socially disadvantaged families. I will continue to focus mainly on the economic field. For example, if we look at neighbouring Austria, we find that the measures there are quick and simple. From the very beginning, they have taken into account this specification, which we have been talking about in the LMŠ for quite some time. So they're different companies from companies that operate, and they're different companies that don't. Such a measure for undertakings closed by a government decision is the replacement of revenue. Thus, these companies receive a certain percentage of last year’s revenues from the country in a comparable period. If I give you an example, in December 2020, guests, hotelers, service activities received a refund of 50 % of the December 2019 revenue. This measure is also justified by companies which are prohibited from doing only part of their activities, saying that these companies also receive a revenue recovery measure. They even know help to companies that are indirectly affected by the closure of certain other industries or activities; companies are said to operate but cannot sell their products because the remaining companies are closed. Here, too, these companies can apply this measure, which I have just mentioned. The second measure, which is intended for companies that can operate, is similar to ours, it is said, to subsidise fixed costs. The drop in sales of 30 % in 2020 and beyond is a condition for the company to be eligible for this measure. But the percentage of the subsidy in Austria corresponds to the percentage of the drop in sales. So this is where the measure differs from our Slovenian measure. If the company loses 60 percent of the sales, you get 60 percent of the fixed costs refunded if you lose 30 percent of the sales, you get 30 percent refunded. And another difference is that between fixed costs, they also take into account the loss of the value of corrupt goods. We have now been able to track, say, the problems of small brewers, these boutique brewers, who have nowhere to go with their stocks, and with this measure they would have solved their problems. They have another measure, a new measure, a compensation for losing the company. This was introduced at the end of last year. The country will cover 70 per cent of the loss to businesses for large and 90 per cent of the loss to small businesses. And we've heard a lot of times, companies that are most in trouble are companies from catering, tourism, the meeting industry, some service services that have to cover quite a good part of the costs all the time. Not only must part of the fixed costs not covered by the State cover part of the wage of workers who are, for example, waiting for work. In view of the fact that, at least publicly so far, there has never been an analysis or some argument, why certain activities are closed and what source of infection these activities actually represent, I would suggest that they are gradually and controlled to open up these activities, which can be based on analysis – and here I stress the analysis – assess that they do not pose a risk of worsening the epidemiological picture. This is also pointed out by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We must be aware that the scope of work in black increases in proportion to the duration of the epidemic and the duration of closure of these activities, and this is certainly more risky in view of the risk of spreading the infection than in certain controlled conditions. However, for those activities where the Government considers that they pose an increased risk and will remain closed, we suggest that they be reimbursed in full. Here we have at least two models; one is a model of recovery of part of lost revenue following the example of Austria. I mentioned this measure earlier. However, I would like to point out that this measure must be selective, which means that companies with different business models and different cost structures should be reimbursed for a different percentage of the revenue shortfall. Another such model, which we also advocate in the LMŠ, is the reimbursement of all inevitable fixed costs incurred in the company when it cannot work. These are the costs of rents, accounting services, municipal contributions, interest on deferment of loans and could also be listed. In particular, I would like to point out the problems of self-employed people. In view of the current aid model, these are eligible for aid from the State in the form of a monthly base income, but this aid is considered to be an operating income. For example, when we deduct from these thousands of €100 of the aid that the entrepreneur receives, we get around €700, then it has some fixed costs to pay off and it comes to €200,300, and this money has to be spent by the end of the month. If I go further, I am convinced that the situation as it is is, is that, for example, agricultural cooperatives can sell construction materials, and trade in construction materials is closed when food trades can sell flowers and flower shops are closed, and could also list such cases as such, that such a situation is causing considerable dissatisfaction in some companies. I must say that I myself do not understand this logic, but the fact that this situation represents unfair competition and also an unjustified advantage for some companies. We have already proposed in the LMŠ that the entire cost of waiting for work be reimbursed to the companies under ban and that the total fixed costs be reimbursed to them. In our view, while it would have been even better and more effective, the measure of partial recovery would have been based on the example of Austria. Unfortunately, we do not have access to the data in order to make the necessary analysis and propose such a measure, which would be fair, but I am convinced that the Government has access to all these data. I am pleased that the Government has included in this PKP8 a measure to fully reimburse the cost of waiting for a job called gross two, but unfortunately this measure is not retroactive. It shall enter into force from 1. 2. 2021. We need to know that these companies that will receive this measure are already in great difficulty and would need such assistance at least from the date of the declaration of the second epidemic. We have tabled an amendment to LMŠ, SD and SAB today to allow this retroactivity. It is said that this measure would have been effective in the recovery of the total cost of waiting for work from 19. Ten. 2020 beyond. Yesterday, we proposed another amendment to the Home Committee to remove the limit on aid for the reimbursement of fixed costs. This limit currently amounts to thousands and 2,000 euros per employee. At the same time, we have also proposed that companies be reimbursed in full for their closure. Unfortunately, the vote on these amendments did not take place on the Committee because the amendment was marked as a commercial impermissibility. To conclude, I would only appeal to the government to pay particular attention in the next PKP package or law, which should already be in preparation, to the companies most affected by the country's decisions and should not carry out their activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, once again welcome! In the beginning, I would like to begin by mentioning the work committee that we had yesterday — two three words, let me say. The committee was as useful as ever, very long as ever, but also sometimes tortured. He became tormented when we began to ask what the criteria were when it came to deciding that an amendment was not allowed to be voted on, or that I should say more clearly where that grey border was. By the way, where is the problem, Mr. President? When we have laws that are not these omnibuses, when we have laws, where there is no opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, such as that because of this diversity of interference in so many and so many laws, can reduce legal certainty in the country, then individual amendments are not always on the one hand and on the other, but are essentially borderline. Yesterday, at least I had a sort of feeling that it is being judged that the most important amendments of the opposition did not even have the opportunity to discuss them or vote, and it can happen that, when I spoke about it late in the evening, I also used strong words. If there has been a feeling among the members and members, and especially with the Chairman of the Committee, Mrs Eva Irgle, that I am offensive, I would like to apologize. That wasn't my purpose. I am very respectful and very careful if it is only possible that we are essentially talking about arguments, not on a personal level. So if any word was too strong, then I apologize, I will be very careful not to do so in the future, but the problem remains, Mr President. There is some discomfort on both sides of the opposition and probably also a coalition with which we have talked about that this is an area that is not fully elucidated. The Rules of Procedure are very clear in Article 132, but the problem is when we have a gray zone. That is why it is the initiative of the Social Democrats, Mr President, to convene a Council of the President of the National Assembly in due course, so that we can discuss and also accept some instructions, such as those for holding meetings, committees and commissions, so that this will not be a bad feeling for the future. This is the proposal of the Social Democrats, if you accept it, we will be pleased, but if not, this is your responsibility. But I wanted to apologize, of course, because yesterday I felt that I was offensive, I didn’t want to be offensive, and if anyone felt that I was insulting him, I do apologize, and in the future I will take great care of my words. But I'd like to say the following. I support laws that have an interventional nature, because I am aware that at the time of the epidemic it is necessary to invest money, including money we do not have and borrow it to sustain the social status of people, people are the most important, while at the same time allowing the economy to live, to also enable all other social systems to live and then to breathe with some full lungs after the epidemic. So the basic orientation is what I've been supporting all the time. What we have a problem with Social Democrats is that, in our view, every measure is not always sufficiently thought out. Not taking the opposition into account is not good, but this is also significant for any other composition of the National Assembly, but the social partners are important. At times, a day or a week of discussion may be more important than an immediate marriage, for then we get a more sustainable marriage. The fact that we are talking today about the eight that will be followed by the nine – someone said yesterday in a joke, we are also thinking about the thirteen, but I believe this is a joke, I hope that we will be out of the epidemic a long time ago – of course it is a sign that in fact a number of measures are not effective enough, do not hit the right target group and then we need to improve it with the next crown of the law. And now I'm going to tell you why there was so much pressure in the opposition yesterday. We have also looked at, say, the case of Austria, Germany and asked what is there to make them more effective in controlling the epidemic than we were in Slovenia. One of the measures I fully understand is 100% compensation if someone feels sick not to come to work. Why is that important? Because a lot of people are very important to each euro, and in fact, 100% of its wages are so important that they simply don't want to, they can't afford 90%. Otherwise, I don't know this case, but I suppose we're essentially creating a situation where people are less careful because it's so important to them that they keep their monthly income. In some other countries, this is how they work, and I believe that they are therefore more successful. What if, for example, laws sent by the Government simply do not find the exact address to which to address our proposal? We have sought and hoped in the eighth Crown that we have addressed the right article, but there has also been no vote on this article. That was our grip last night. Then it's a matter that I don't really understand, but it's the next. I think I'm on December 21st, because I got a call from one of the citizens in Pomur, where she described her daughter's case. My daughter's a student, but she's studying abroad. A daughter studying abroad has even higher costs because she is abroad has fallen out of the spring crown package, where students have already received the first 150 euro crisis allowance. Interestingly, when they contacted the competent ministry, the answer was that, in fact, a student who studied abroad could not be considered a student. Now, why was this answer really so uninhabited – because we also have a state secretary in charge of work, social work, and it is this student who has been given a decision from his social work centre to receive a state grant admitting that she is a foreign student. So the Ministry of State Secretary admitted to the student that she was a student, another, the ministry – for education, unfortunately – and then the government as a whole did not acknowledge her. This, understand, is essentially the creation of first- and second-class citizens. It was similar in this autumn package and my proposal to admit, we were wrong, we overlooked, because when you erred and corrected and corrected, you were at least half forgiven, and it was the initiative of the Government to give students and students who both met the conditions for paying students in Slovenia to just pay them back. And to understand, these students and students aren't that many. Yesterday, one of the members of the coalition challenged me to look for numbers. We do not have an accurate Slovenian register, but we have an OECD rating, and that assessment says that these students and students are about 2 000 700. So it is not the amount that the state budget would be very burdensome, but it is a principle, whether our student who studies in Slovenia is in our eyes the same, more or less valuable than a student who studies across borders. I am pleased that the Government went against at least half of the €150 solution, but I am sorry that it was simply not possible yesterday to correct injustice as a whole. In addition, the opposition's proposal was to find a solution for one group of students who are small, but when injustices are committed, every individual's fault is considered to be a student who is enrolled in a foreign study conducted in Slovenia, but is not accredited in Slovenia, but abroad. As far as I'm aware, we have two such programs. Not a lot of people, is it? But the student is a student. Even in this proposal, I simply think that it was 8-8 and we have now released them. Why am I saying this? Since you are, Mr Secretary of State – when I address you like that, I am referring to the Government – here is the Government's present representative, because we have heard that you are preparing a nine. I will not resent anything if you consider this solution in the ninth; no praise, no boasting or anything like that, but let's take these people into account. Today, we still have the opportunity to address people who are, say, over 55 years of age, unemployed through this law and who have not received an allowance after this mathematics. It has turned to us – I believe all Members and Members of Parliament – quite a few of these people as well. Please, let's get this group back on track. Yesterday was a very good debate whether it makes sense for the CAP to introduce new repressive measures as well. It's not just a specific question about an individual article, it's also a doctrinal question of what to do to make people follow instructions, guides, because no repression, no control of it. In fact, all he can do is talk politely to the people: please let's stick to it, because then we'll win faster. Yesterday, with most of the votes, it was close, one of these repressive articles, for which there was even a view that it was probably quite unconstitutional, because it refers to something that is not even in fact then some law, regulation or regulation, we withdrew it. Please, because I assume you have a majority today, not to return this article to marriage. Yesterday we succeeded in withdrawing, for example, what was most controversial to the opposition. Please don't let this come back to marriage today. We didn't make it last night to give extra autonomy to the university space. Again, there was a reason for this to be an amendment that did not have a business basis and that it should not be discussed. Okay, then I hope you put this in the ninth marriage. What do I have to say in the end? I support intervention laws. I would also like to take into account what the opposition is proposing, and please kindly, not include threats in intervention laws. Let's be respectful. I had the opportunity to watch two or three German chancellors speak Mrs. Angela Merkel on television. The lady is very humble to the people, begging them. She's very humble. Don't threaten them, and I feel like that's why people are following her. And if they're following someone because they're not threatened, we're going to do the best we can, and we absolutely need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor, I would remind you that, in accordance with the first sentence of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to have a general debate on laws tabled under urgent procedure in plenary session. I therefore suggest that all those who will continue to debate concentrate on the amendment tabled. The word is Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The question or consideration of the eighth anti-Korona package that we are adopting today raises the question of how, during the period of the deep crisis we are facing, things that have been subject to the general belief that they express unrefutable certainty. The shockingness of the current situation forces us to think about how some of the assumptions adopted are actually unreliable. The past year — 10 months of dealing with the epidemic and its consequences — revealed a number of secrets, and it also brought a grain of hope. It is never easy to make radical changes, but it is now clear that everything can be different. We no longer have any reason to accept matters as they were. The most important message last year and our fight against the epidemic is that things can't stay the way they are, just because they are the way they are. It is hard to imagine a deeper source of hope for the future, something that has brought us past the year that we would like to forget as soon as possible. An overview of the resources facing the virus by the Slovenian State shows that little less than 3 billion budget expenditure was spent in 2020 to remedy the various types of crisis caused by the virus. If we compare this with income or with the revenue capacity of the state budget, which was realised at a level of good 9 billion and 100 million euros, then this represents 32% of all revenue. I think it is necessary to know this in particular from the perspective of the most financially powerful part of the Slovenian nation, which, at least in my humble opinion, the anti-Korona packages are becoming increasingly an opportunity for looting. As an opportunity to invent new inventions, ways, methods and means, how to obtain partial or full co-financing from the state budget. The state budget is an entity that is not unlimited. This seems to me to be the most important fact that we should all take into account when we receive dozens, perhaps even hundreds of e-mails, messages from such and other stakeholders, in order to obtain something from the state budget. If we look at the structure of the planned expenditure of the current anti-korona package, it is necessary to know that the base of all expenditure or the sum of all expenditure is slightly more than € 320 million and that only one item in this overall structure is worth more than €200 million. This is the part that calls for a partial refund to pay the workers on temporary wait for work. If implemented, as envisaged, it is said, by an extension by the end of May or by the end of June of this year, the value of such expenditure will be 200 million euros. If we include what has been realized in the past year and, of course, what is undeniable is that social contributions have also been paid for employees on hold, then the sum is 750 and 733 million euros. This means three quarters of a billion euros. And that means, given the realisation of all expenditure in the past year, that only one quarter of all expenditure has been spent to co-finance the waiting for work. This also points to the Government's strategy to maintain, as far as possible, stability in the labour market. That's what can't be overlooked. Another important part of the expenditure structure is the part that is said to be a guarantee to the Slovenian Export and Development Bank for the first loss of the financial engineering loan fund in the field of tourism and hospitality. This, of course, depends on the consent of the European Commission to state aid. This year, however, it is expected that €70 million will be realized under this heading. The third important issue, which is not to be overlooked and which has also caused a great deal of excitement, is the remuneration for workers with a minimum wage of €50, because the entire structure will amount to €17 million. It appears to me that it is important to stress another matter, because it is a few items, which each of us does not mean how much expenditure, but when a person sums them up, because they are substantively similar, and of course this matter means concrete expenditure. In particular, it is the co-financing of all activities carried out by operators of different forms of road transport, the sum of which is EUR 9 million and EUR 300,000, and the co-financing of revenue in rail passenger transport or in the public economic service of passenger transport, which covers EUR 6 million and EUR 300,000. If I add all of this together, I have mentioned most of the most important expenditure items of this anti-korona law and the common denominator of all these items is that expenditure is primarily aimed at maintaining stability in the labour market. Mr Vice-President, you initially gave a certain reference to the debate on this item of the agenda or on the consideration of Article 1. What follows now will not be entirely in the spirit of the article that is being exposed. However, I think it would suggest saying this, and it will not take too long, because it relates to the adoption of this anti-korona package as well as all the others that we have accepted so far. I tell you this in advance, and I also ask you to accept this with understanding. This is because so far we have discussed in all anti-Korona packages one essential and important thing: this essential and important thing is health. Health is a priority issue for every society. Because we speak, quite simply, of whether or not the human race has stood. The current epidemic has shown all the weaknesses and vulnerabilities of those societies, including Slovenia, which are based on the ideas of liberal capitalism and the abandonment of health to unforgivable market legality. Human health should therefore be excluded from the optics of liberal capitalism and the laws of supply and demand. Health policy in transnational communities such as the European Union should therefore not only be left to individual countries but should be a single policy at the level of the Union as a whole. The Covid-19 pandemic has succeeded in overcoming a number of obstacles to the emergence of a common agreement at the level of the European Union, which is reflected in the solidarity of the Next Generation of the EU, in particular for the reconstruction of the economies of the Member States, especially the most affected. It has already been pointed out that the European Union has finally shifted and has overcome in a major wave all the restrictions imposed by supporters of predatory capitalism, in particular the tightening of the budget deficit and the continuous reduction of government debt. Under the impression of the epidemic shock that Europe has experienced, the European Union has abolished all budgetary constraints, all state debt restrictions and all of this despite the resistance of the so-called custodian countries. From here on, the response to the epidemic was expected to be fully shared, which would mean raising health policy to the level of the European Union's single policy through a model of profiling of certain other policies, such as the common agricultural policy or monetary policy of the euro area, even in part. Instead, however, the European Union and Slovenia entered, together with it, into a scheme that is nothing more than the approval of the law of the jungle in the pharmaceutical field and the consent to the extortion of large capital. The scheme is called the joint order of the covidu-19 vaccine. The coordination of the entire health policy through the introduction of uniform parameters and criteria for the protection of citizens and the absence of such a policy was intended by the European Union to replace the single procurement campaign with the inevitable steel law of capitalism. The large monopolies on the market, Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Moderna announced that their supplies would be delayed, although they regularly paid all their sales prices. The reasons for the delays cannot be stated with certainty. We may never really know what this is all about. Capital law is stronger, pharmaceutical giants are modern predators, they create extra profits and they can blackmail anything by mile, regardless of signed contracts; all those who cannot be threatened by physical force are called military power. In this way, the European Union and Slovenia proved to be a paper tiger, and this was at a time when it seemed to have managed to overcome the crisis, stagnation and lethargy of previous years. Tricks and tricks about the delays of pharmaceutical giants will eventually be solved, perhaps again with some kind of ashing and a further increase in the value of their shares on the global markets. But in this case, as we see, colleagues and colleagues, there is no thing that man could not do for his own harm. The European Union will continue, to assume it, to continue to swear after all this into the principles of the free market for the free movement of capital and free enterprise. But whether someone likes it or not, in the end we will end up with an economy that will need important support from the state and with a government that will have control over the private sector and will make sure that everyone gets enough to survive. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also an essential message from today's anti-Korona package; the State's concern that everyone gets what is necessary for survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u35	Thank you very much. It's a good thing you apologized in advance. I would ask all other debaters to abide by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Several related provisions of the Rules of Procedure refer to what the second-reading debate on the urgency procedure should be. One earlier said by a colleague, the President of the National Assembly, Mr Zorčič. This is the first paragraph of Article 134, where the general debate is not possible, and the first paragraph and the first sentence of Article 144(1) in urgent proceedings expressly provides that the general debate is not possible. I therefore suggest that you focus on the amendments tabled. In any case, what had to be said in the general debate could be said in the position of the parliamentary groups, which was at this point, because of the urgency of the procedure, it was open. Continue, Joseph Lenart has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to the guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The previous effects of anti-Korona packages in Slovenia were among the most successful compared to the members of the European Union, mainly in the management of unemployment. PKP8 is also following this control of unemployment, which is still important. In the meantime, the ratings of European and global financial institutions are currently in favour of these measures, namely, the rating agency Standard & Poor's from the United States confirmed Slovenia's rating with A in December – that is, a stable outlook. This means that despite the crisis, Slovenia remains a financially stable country due to covid-19. So for where we are with the CAP, which, of course, has positive effects, and for other extraordinary costs, we have already committed several billion euros, it is meant to deal with the consequences of the crisis. In fact, it has been used for an extremely important and effective measure, which we are now extending, waiting for work, so far more than EUR 400 million, and as we have heard from the Minister, it has been successfully benefited by 32,000 businesses so far. By the end of the year, there were 34 thousand people on the short-term measure, and we also spent an additional 25 million euros on this measure. And now the unemployment we have right now, which shows pretty good data. In December 2019, there were 75 thousand 200 people at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia and in 2019 there were 74 thousand 200. In December 2020, unemployment was 15 per cent higher than in the same month 2019 and an average of 85,000 people were registered at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia in 2020. This seems important to me, so on average 14.6 percent more than in 2019. Why? Because we know it's easier to prevent than to treat. This title provides, somehow, or is envisaged that up to 300,000 jobs have been retained by the CAP so far, to which we can rightly be proud in the Slovenian Democratic Party and, of course, in all coalition parties and these parliamentary groups. So the opposition's observations, which continued today, were already present at the Labour Committee last night, that there was no dialogue with the social partners, that there was no support for the opposition's good proposals and, of course, many of their amendments were not accepted. With the amendments, I must say that it was on the table and it was voted what it was, this is a democratic process, the system is like this, even all the amendments from the coalition's parliamentary groups have not been able to support this committee, but this is how it works. In PCP 8, which is indeed good and welcome, the measures are aimed at the objective of helping employers and workers, i.e. the economy, so the cost of the eighth CAP is around €320 million. It is supported by the State Council, both the competent Commission of the Council of State, and has been positively identified by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry on yesterday's Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. President Meh also suggested very reasoned arguments, which we must have all remembered together, namely, that the opposition's observations that these measures were for the benefit of the capitalists and not the workers, he said that, of course, he could not hold and that he could not understand this – as I could not understand – that someone was saying that if employers were helped to do so they would not help the workers, because this was normally all connected. If we keep these workers' jobs, we have done a lot for it. In fact, it is also necessary to maintain micro-enterprises, espies and so on, because, later on, we will no longer successfully recover them and we will also find it difficult to repair this damage that would have occurred if we had stopped companies, but so far there were not many more bankruptcys than in 2019, in 2020, and we hope that this will remain so. Thus, some members of the opposition did not understand that this aid in the form of funds is also assistance to employers; to those whom they call small people. Here we have one state of emergency, this is a covid-19 crisis that affects the functioning of all systems of this country, a challenging moment, if I say so, when we must step together and, of course, there is no time for populism and marketing action by opposition parties and members of the National Assembly. The main measures in the CAP8, the extension of waiting for work, the shortening of working time until April 2021, are extended, and then there are various solidarity allowances that have spread to the general population. The students are now occupied, the unemployed, and they are happy. Of course, our economy will benefit from this. Why — because we will help by sharing with those who have little income to spend. This will, of course, speed up the cash flow and, as a result, will make it easier for the economy to rise back to the pre-crisis level. Therefore, it is also a burden to employers due to an increase in the minimum wage, then the reduced working time will also be subsidised by the country to farms or again those farms that have people working on the farm, and now do not have enough work for eight hours. So where is the reason why these would not be measures for a small person, for a worker and also, inter alia, for students, students, pensioners? So now to say what was well done, what was not; of course it is possible to criticize when you see these effects, but it is very difficult that in some context around us you are now looking at who did something better than the country of Slovenia. One of the directors I know said that he has a company in Slovenia and Croatia, and he also said that the obedience of the state of Slovenia and its government is much better than that of the government for this economy by our southern neighbours. So I must say that this minister and this government would only be doing very well if these crises and, of course, those are not being done by the opposition. That would be everything on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I will once again warn you before I give the floor forward – stick to the rules of procedure. The next one gets the word Primož Siter. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The eighth government attempt to create the impression that the government is in control of the epidemic is ahead. Poorly prepared PKPs, traditionally poorly prepared PKPs, anti-Korona packages that do not respond to the real needs of people at the time of the epidemic and its economic and social challenges, on the other hand, to the causes of a catastrophic epidemic, economic and social picture. Thus, poorly prepared laws to help are a key problem, why currently Slovenia is epidemiological where it is – at the bottom or at the top of sad statistics. Especially the sad ones, of course, in the part where we count the deaths that are now reported to be 3 000 522. The inability of this government, which has been beautifully reflected in eight anti-Korona packages now, is therefore measured on one side in the number of dead people, poor governance of the coronary crisis situation, catastrophic communication with people, as has been pointed out today, and, of course, the very obvious desire for the absolute power of Janez Janša and his team. But this is an understandable consequence of the complete mistrust of people, even because of these packages, with which this government has done a lot more than solve the epidemic and which one we have today on the table. Why? So I won't be flattened in my findings. At the end of the year, on 18 December, the Fiscal Council reported that the Government had spent intervention measures and that we had only six anti-Korona packages, a good EUR 3 billion. Of which 1.7 billion is for private capital only. 1.7 billion! For the workers, for the population, to say the least, 370 million. So for capital on one side a thousand 700 million and 370 million for those who create it. Even this law that we have on the table today does not remove this imbalance, nor does it improve it. I find that it deepens it, and it does not even address, as I said in the introduction, the main reasons why we are facing such an enormous number of dead, and it does not respond to, frankly, the near collapse of the educational system. Death, as it was said, is 3,000 322 today. A few days ago, or two days ago, when we were preparing with fellow Members of the parliamentary group for the consideration of this law, we were third in number of dead per inhabitant worldwide. Today we're second, only Belgium outnumbers us. But we're the first to count dead to a million - 55. Belgium has a better trend with 21 here. So in fact, we are in some way statistically at the very top of the epidemic control and at the top of the death victims that the epidemic demands. But not controlling this health part of the epidemic is one thing that the government doesn't master, and the other thing is this social part. The government is not even able to specifically agree on intervention measures with trade unions – we saw on yesterday's Labour Committee. Despite requests from both the unions and the opposition to invite the unions to this debate to a competent working body where they will have the opportunity to speak, this did not happen – the unions received an invitation half an hour before the meeting. Not to mention the debacle that happened in the Economic and Social Council – a similar scenario. The unions raised their hands and went and said we couldn't. And then we are talking about social measures to improve the position of the worker. And the unions are those who advocate 800,000 people working in Slovenia! Then one more thing is school. In these measures, we do not see any school psr, since the improvement of the situation of schools or in the part of the re-law of the school system. We urgently need some ambitious plan, some ambitious approach and related staff, related resources, infrastructure and so on. By the way, the Italians have hired 60,000 teachers, 30,000 support staff, but Svez has already, I don't know, at the fifth, sixth antikron package, warned or proposed additional money for organizational adjustments, for technical adjustments, for human resources adjustments — none of this. Teachers warn themselves – nothing. Not to mention these civil initiatives of parents that are now taking place throughout the country. I'm proud of the Ripper that things started in my home and then spread all over the place. The kids started talking, the kids understood that these things didn't work. That despite the eight intervention packages, the government does not address a key problem. People die and children are left without education and without the opportunity to develop psychosocially as they need to. There are many problems, and we will talk about all of them as soon as the amendments are listed, and we will also present the solutions that we are proposing in Levica or in cooperation with opposition parliamentary groups, but the key things that the Government must overlook in writing these laws or these intervention measures are: people who are working must have some help. See, I don't agree with the predecessor. Little has happened in history that the gift of capital was transferred to the survival of the worker who created it. Once upon a time. Even in this case this ticle-down economy does not work. Once again, €1.7 billion in capital aid and €370 million in capital aid to those who create it. This is a dangerous work, this will not lead the country out of the epidemic and the economic and social crisis that accompany it, ladies and gentlemen. As we say, over the list of amendments and the solutions that we are proposing, we will call back later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I propose that you are correct in your deliberations. Yesterday, it was repeatedly said that the social partners were invited to the committee as soon as possible. No one has expelled anyone and I suggest, however, no matter which side you come from, that you use facts in your deliberations if you are already in breach of the rules of procedure on the content of the debates. Even some other things have been problematic in this debate, I will not comment, because I do not need to, but stick to the truth in your debates. Procedurally, Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to argue too much with you, but, for the first time, you don't have a business basis to argue with my debate. Secondly, I stated two clear facts: an invitation to representatives of the cooperation union at yesterday's meeting came to their addresses 40 minutes before the meeting. That's a fact. That's a measurable fact, and I've talked about it. The second fact that I referred to in relation to the participation of workers' representatives in the Economic and Social Council was that of the last meeting of the Economic and Social Council which was left in protest. This is also a fact because they expressed their dissatisfaction or inability to communicate their voice and were disappointed that the Government did not respect their vote, and these are facts, respected Vice-President. Nothing that would be commercially disputed, and anything that testifies to the position of this government towards social dialogue, to the representatives of workers and, of course, to eternal and saved approval and I don't know what, to the magnification of capital representatives on the other hand, who never protest from the Economic and Social Council meeting, because they have nothing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u41	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President may intervene, there is no restriction, you will not find it in the Rules of Procedure, but extraordinary provisions allowing the President to intervene in cases where there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Read that for yourself. You have the 57th article, and it's done. The obstruction of anyone in the Economic and Social Council is obstruction. Just like in the National Assembly. It's his sovereign decision. However, the fact is that the economic and social partners were invited to discuss the work body as soon as possible. They got no invitations later than the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, like the Chamber of Commerce, like anyone else. And that's a fact. So I suggest you hold on to these cheering matters. Let's move on to the debate. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u42	President, thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! We've got a really tough situation. Indeed, since we have been in Slovenia, since we have our own country, alone, we have not met such a difficult situation. On the one hand, we have a pandemic that the world has never met, which opens up huge health, economic and social problems and problems. On the other hand, we are witnessing the weakening of institutions where the good functioning of any democratic state and thus the consequences of the unfair attacks on these institutions, especially due to the constant rapid movement of personnel. In doing so, we must be aware that there is not enough qualified staff with adequate experience in a limited pool such as Slovenia for all these exchanges. We are thus deliberately or unintentionally creating a largely volunteer structure in these institutions, which takes little account of the direction of the profession and does not rely properly on it. You can't do that without it. On the other hand, without seeking support here, in the National Assembly, and in particular in people involved and dialogue, taking into account different and other opinions and proposals, and this is the advantage of democracy, in which democracy is an elephant, in dialogue, in finding the best solutions: more heads, more knows. A respected epidemiologist recently wrote it down. – I have to say again what I said yesterday. On the one hand, I listen to how this is the most capable team of this government, and on the other hand, I listen to the results that we have one of the worst results. The best government and the worst results. That's something wrong. This epidemiologist wrote that when things got out of hand, there were hypotheses that were not proven. These hypotheses were followed by measures. Worse still, the measures have been done in a political way, with some coordination with stakeholders, which of course has nothing to do with epidemiology. We have a member of the Government who says that the image, as we have it, is relatively bad or very bad, the Constitutional Court, who has decided that the results should be monitored and evaluated. This is a completely normal control that we take into account in companies, all the good companies are able to handle it and have it done, that is to monitor the distances from achieving the goals, the deviations so that we can then correct them. But the basic thing is to admit mistakes, to make mistakes, and to fix them. Control can't be the fault of such matters. The other member tells us that the government has entered a dead end and then the opposition has the opposition to go to the political game. And besides the President of the Government, as well as other members, here in Parliament I hear that this opposition, the media, the undisciplined people and so on are now at fault. I don't think we're looking for guilt, I'm not going to say guilty, but we're not looking for mistakes where they came from, and we're going to fix them there. As someone wrote down a reference to how we get these measures, with poor communication, with the vague that tomorrow's measures will be in place, adding some of the relaxations that were in place before yesterday, if today's picture deteriorates, today's measures will apply. The people are confused, believe me, that this communication needs to be sought, and we need to seek our support, with Members. He's caught up with some spin, let us rule, the opposition bothers us. I tell you now as SAB, we have not actually filed – we have also signed interpellation first, but that was not the case, we have not filed any constitutional charges. We never voted against it, we held back. We let you decide to take action. But we need to find that the matter is going very badly, and I hope that today, at least in some amendments, you will take something into account. As you can see, we are actually suspended as a parliament. I confess to all the powers of the President of the Government to rule with a minority government sovereignly. The government with the decrees, the correspondence fairs, rules over its cabinet. And then in the National Assembly, after a rapid procedure, we confirm the PKPs and the President and the Presidents in the National Assembly, this suspension, I will say, parliaments allow. I don't think it's healthy and it's leading in the wrong direction and we're going in the wrong direction. Let's start participating, allow dialogue and let others know something, not just one cabinet of someone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u43	Thank you very much. / adverts from benches/ Procedural Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u44	Mr. President-in-Office. I am surprised by the debate by a fellow Member of the Party, Alenka Bratušek. He spent almost 6 minutes of his debate and did not touch today's debate, the topic of the agenda of the anti-korona package 8. Some flat-rate charges at the expense of this government, how we should do what we don't do. In not a single word, however, in a six-minute debate, he did not mention the anti-Korona package number 8 that we are discussing today. I think that says enough eloquently that there's no content here, but I'd say an attack on the government of Janez Janša. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u45	Marko Pogačnik, please, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u46	To advise Members and Members, as Chair, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to discuss the topic of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u47	I have already warned twice or three times that we have an amendment to Article 1 and that, in accordance with the provisions of business, Articles 134 and 144, there is no general discussion and that, in accordance with Articles 7 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure, only the item on the agenda is discussed. The fact that Article 1 applies to the general debate means that the Member has not been prepared for discussion. That's the first sign, the first sign. I suggest that all of you, when discussing Article 1, focus on the amendment tabled. However, in Article 5, which will be next to focus on the amendment tabled, I will be forced to act accordingly. That's what we can say. I do not want to because there is no need, but I suggest you discuss the content on the agenda. [[adverts from benches]] Procedural. The door hasn't closed yet. Tina Hefferle, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u48	Yes, thank you very much, Vice President. It's true, I rushed out of the office where I was watching this session, which you're running in a very, very strange and unusual way. I've got to do this a little [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u49	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u50	Right away, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u51	Well, well, well, well.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u52	I've got three minutes, and I'm gonna take three minutes, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u53	Procedural proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u54	To explain it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u55	I expect a suggestion, no. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u56	Mr Tanko, if you'll excuse me, I will explain my procedural proposal in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u57	Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u58	Now you've stolen half a minute from me, and I expect these 30 seconds to be added.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u59	If necessary, we'll add.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u60	Mr. Tanko, would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u61	Yes, you asked for an supplement, if necessary. 30 seconds [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u62	Mr. Tanko [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u63	Of course I promised you I'd give it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u64	Mr. Tanko, in my word you're jumping, before I even start the sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u65	Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u66	I'm asking for a little respect. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u67	And if I have to, I'll give you extra time. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u68	For a little courtesy. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u69	You're welcome, no problem. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u70	For a little courtesy, for one thing, you don't even have a basic bonton, you don't jump into a man's word. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u71	I'll take your word for it. I'm in charge of the session, not you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u72	Don't jump into my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u73	In two hours, you'll be able to conduct your own session.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u74	I'm not gonna take revenge on your colleagues, don't worry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u75	I'm not going to either, I'm just suggesting [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u76	Mr Tanko, at the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which took place on 18 November, you discussed in one of your responses to the procedural proposal, where Members, as is usually the case with the amendment to Article 1, which is just an amendment to a law, discussed slightly more – as today – and I will quote you from the tapegram I was looking for in the office, so I came forward. You put it this way: "It is a little awkwardness," that is, a procedural proposal for a broader debate – that the first amendment is tabled in Article 73 and not in Article 1. 1. Article 1 of each law is usually one that allows for a slightly broader discussion.” So we now have an amendment to Article 1 of the Law and you are restricting and impeding debate between Members and Members who are discussing a slightly broader debate. Of course, the subject we are talking about is very broad. And I don't understand you in your efforts to try to silence Members. Both yours and ours, the left and the right discuss a little wider, which is common, and of course for a topic such as the anti-korona package, which covers a broader topic, of course, normally. Please conduct the meeting as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with your principles which we have written on the Magnetgram in November, spoken publicly, Article 1 is permitted to discuss [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u77	Give her 30 seconds to tell the story.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u78	But I'll sit down and make it easier. Thank you very much for your accuracy, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll finish up faster than you owe me time. Allow Members and Members of Parliament to discuss this more widely. Last but not least, you proposed this in one of the previous meetings, “the first article, which is usually one that allows for a slightly broader debate”. If you'd like, I'll give you the tape.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u79	Thank you very much. You don't have to, but you keep it to yourself when you're driving. When I started the session, I quoted what the President of the National Assembly said in the announcement or in the introduction of this item, saying that you are holding on to the debaters of Article 134(1). I also added the provision of Article 144, paragraph 1, which speaks of an urgent procedure. Since there is no general debate, I have, of course, said that paragraph 57 should be taken into account. This is said to be the second paragraph, where only the agenda item is spoken of. I have rightly warned all the debaters that there are discussions or agenda items. I didn't take a word from anyone, but I warned everyone, and I warned Mr Siter, because he was misquoting a certain claim. However, I would remind you, colleague, that, as Vice-President of the National Assembly in your procedural proposal, once, if we are going to history, you have announced the obstruction of your parliamentary group, for which you did not have a mandate, and you have announced the obstruction of the entire opposition, which you had even less mandate for. And I didn't criticize you at the time. I didn't even warn you. So re-examine the rules, rules, and [[advertising from the hall]] – you'll get, don't be liquid! Well, do as you're told, or as it says in the rules of procedure, not as you think. Procedural Tina Hefferle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u80	Mr. Tanko, unlike you, I will be polite to you. You just told me on the air "don't bother me". This is outrageous, and from where you are right now, where I'll be in an hour, it's disrespectful of me and anyone in this room. And please, if you'll just hold on to yours for a moment. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u81	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u82	Procedural, yes [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u83	Not to discuss with me, you do not have a word for controversy, but for a procedural proposal. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u84	Since you've been discussing with me, I'll be with you, too, I'll respond, given that you've maligned my good name, honor and reputation. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u85	Mrs. Hefferle, you have [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u86	Mr. Tanko, my proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u87	you have the floor for a procedural proposal [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u88	It's procedural, I'll tell him right away. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u89	Not for the debate with the chairman. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u90	And you're not even listening to me because you're talking through me!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u91	I warn you, and I have kindly warned you that you have the floor for a procedural proposal, not for a debate with the President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u92	And I just want to formulate and articulate it, and you're jumping into my word over and over again. Do you even know Bonton?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u93	Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u94	Please, if you'll excuse me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u95	That's enough. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u96	I will speak in peace. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u97	You'll tell me, but don't argue with me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u98	Mr. Tanko, I can't talk if you're jumping into my word. Please calm down because it's rude for a gentleman like you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u99	I take your word for it because you don't stick to it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u100	No, you can't take my word for it!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u101	I take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u102	My procedural proposal is as follows: [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u103	I take the word [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u104	You were talking. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u105	You don't have a word anymore. / turn off microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u106	Procedural proposal by Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u107	The Vice-President of the National Assembly, aside from the fact that this scene is something completely unworthy, non-valid, prodigal, something we call houdrey, we have here three clear violations of the rules of procedure from your title. First paragraph. Discussions on the amendments to Article 1 are increasingly open to debate. After almost three years of the National Assembly, for the first time today, I have heard that such a practice would be introduced. Secondly, you make a substantive comment on the debates of Members and Members, for which you do not have jurisdiction. As the moderator of the parliamentary debate, you can intervene in the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, but you do not have any mandate to define yourself as commenting on the content of the Members' debates, which you have done if not the other, in my case. And I wasn't the only one. And thirdly, don't let the Members make your procedural proposal, because it would confuse your authority. I mean, you're the personification of everything Janez Janša's government is. Don't even let others talk, because you know that there will be criticism, you don't give them an opportunity, you comment on everything, you have a solution for everything, you don't respect the rules of procedure, and it's all one hudrast chaos. Please allow the Vice-President to at least make her procedural proposal. Here, that's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u108	Well, now I've denied you because I let you tell me everything you thought. In your debate, I only touched what you said wrong. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] You may have misquoted or misquoted. With regard to the management of the meeting and the Rules of Procedure, I have quoted you as saying the provisions, all the provisions relating to the conduct of this meeting, which relate to the second treatment relating to the urgent procedure, and the provisions relating to the matter as to which the person having the floor should speak. I've also counted all these provisions for you. I have not violated either of these provisions. However, I have kindly warned everyone you spoke of that you adhere to procedural or business rules. And nothing else. And I didn't take a word from anyone. But I do not allow any controversy in the way you have allowed it — neither the Vice-President of the National Assembly nor any Member. I haven't disabled anyone in any way. However, the procedural proposal is not intended to deal with the President. It's not allowed and it's not admissible. Look at the rules of procedure. And if you are referring to the application of the Rules of Procedure, then refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as I have referred to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. And there's nothing else you need to say here in this case. If I have violated the rules of procedure, we will deal with this on a business committee – no problem. If there are such serious violations, you can also make a decision by voting if you want, and so on. But not to interfere with my work and guidance in the way you allow it. I'm sorry. Even if the woman is on the other side, the same rules apply. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural first, Mr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Based on everything you have stated in the Rules of Procedure, I propose that since Article 1 refers to the content of the law, I quote, “with this law, the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic change and supplement the provisions” and are mentioned in the seven tax laws. [[…]] Secondly, “this law derogates from the provisions of the following laws” and there are ten other laws. In short, we have here from the Construction Law, through the Law on Medical Activities, the Law on Offences to the Law on Religious Freedom. I propose that, on the basis of this, regardless of who will now lead the meeting, a debate on the content of the law, which is very clearly referred to in Article 1 of this CAP, shall be allowed. Just do it. This is in accordance with both the rules of procedure and the urgency of the procedure. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The word has Tina Hefferle, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u111	Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. The 144th Article to which you refer states: “In the urgent procedure for the adoption of the law, no general discussion shall be held on the basis of Rule 122 of this Rules of Procedure.” You have not read this part of the sentence since Article 122 of this Rules of Procedure reads: “At least 10 Members may, within 15 days of the transmission of the bill to Members of Parliament, request that the National Assembly discuss the reasons for the adoption of the law, and so on. ” [[…]] In a single word, a general debate. Therefore, your interpretation that a more general discussion should not be held in Article 1 of the Amended Rule because of your reference to Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure is completely wrong and wrong. For this general debate, which you are talking about, does not mean to discuss this law in general, but rather means a specific institution, as set out in Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure, and this is an institution of general discussion, which we know is being held before the first reading of the law, a general debate is being held and a vote is taken on whether the law is suitable for further consideration. So your reference to Article 144 is completely wrong, completely wrong. In view of your statement I quoted earlier, it is only Article 1 that allows for a somewhat broader discussion, if it is an amendment, that I ask you to be very respectful – although I am a woman – that I ask you to allow all Members and Members to discuss the law in general. Because we have an amendment to Article 1. However, Comrade Trček showed very nicely and vividly what this law is talking about, and also this article, which is being amended in Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that Franc Trček and Tina Hefferle have now given a very good business justification for where you have run the meeting, and I would just suggest the following. Since we have witnessed one such harsh expression of sexism on your part a few minutes ago, when you addressed the Vice-President of the National Assembly with “even if you are a woman” and thereby dishonored her name and half of humanity, please let us possibly stop the meeting, meet with the leaders of the parliamentary groups at the College of the President of the National Assembly and agree on how this meeting will proceed without your leadership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u114	Thank you very much. A German mattage procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Almost every time – Mr Vice-President, I am talking to you if you can listen to me – when you sit there on that chair, you will rise above all of us Members and Members and despite arguments both by your colleague Tina Heferle and Dr. Duck hope to kill each other again the debate in the National Assembly. I don't know why you're doing this. I don't understand. We have to argue with you again every time about the most basic democratic procedures that are in practice in the National Assembly. I don't know what's in you that you're doing, I don't know why you're doing this. Are you feeling better when you get home? My procedural proposal is, respectable, I follow what Primož Siter said, allow others to do the work instead of you, who are more suitable for the role you are playing, and allow dialogue, respected Vice-President, in a respectful manner. And don't insult men or women like you did with Mrs. Tina Hefferle, which is unacceptable. If you think that makes you a better person, you're wrong. Why? Because it's obvious. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u116	Colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u117	how your colleague does this, and [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u118	to deal with the president in the way you allow it, [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u119	A colleague and colleagues shall be able to hold meetings. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u120	But I'll tell you the procedural part. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u121	My procedural proposal is to leave this city and leave the colleague or colleague or the President of the National Assembly to conduct dialogue in a smooth manner in the National Assembly. That's all, Sir Tanko. You don't have to be a big man for small acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u122	Thank you very much for the recommendation. As far as the management of the sitting and the intervention is concerned. It is also polite of those who get the word that you do not interfere with the chairman and jump into the word. [[advertising from the hall]] The only one who has a mandate to reach out to anyone is probably the chairman. It doesn't make sense for anyone who thinks he's right to do it anyway. It's not polite. When the chairman intervenes, it is most normal to wait for him to warn or do anything else. As for management, you'll have to arrange it somewhere else. You gave me your mandate at the beginning. I said I'd try to follow the rules of procedure. I would also warn you that it is not only Article 144, paragraph 1, but that the President of the National Assembly has already pointed out before me the provision of Article 134, paragraph 1, in the introduction before he even gave the first word. Then I just added this to the 75th article, because we need to talk about the agenda. The amendment is submitted to the law and predicts an expansion of content and should be discussed, so that I see no reason to talk about any matter going on anywhere else. We're talking about the content of the amendment tabled. Lidija Divac Mirnik has another word for a procedural proposal. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr Tanko, I believe that you are the right child – in the notes of course – because you always say that again and again from the position of power that you are now in. In recent times, you have also been saying that you are constantly, but you are really commenting on the debates of the opposition Members. You've somehow taken it upon yourself and taken it for your own right, because this is not what you're doing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u124	Colleague, procedural proposal, not debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u125	Vice-Presidents. [[…]] Now I will not repeat what Tina and the French have already said, but I suggest you breathe, as we do in yoga, take a deep breath, calm your ego and continue in a respectful spirit, especially towards women and members of the opposition. For kindness is the mother of wisdom, and great are those who can behave even when they fly on their wings. My procedural proposal, however, is, Mr Vice-President, to apologize to Tina Heferle, Vice-President, Members of the LMS, because she has better rules of procedure than you. God help you, that's just the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u126	Look, I didn't like interrupting anyone. I warned everyone who spoke through, except Mr. Starović at the end. This is a fact, but it was Mr Polnar, it was a gentleman, I think, Lenart, both coalition MPs, I told Mr Siter not to follow the line and so on. I have done nothing else and I have called for you to be right in your deliberations and to talk about the facts, not the insinuation, and I have done nothing else. But I'm going to follow your proposal and I'm going to give my word to the woman, Andrea Zabret. Madam Ambassador, please, you have the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] More procedural? Tina Hefferle, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u127	Look, Mr. Vice President, this thing with a woman has been a little excessive again, hasn't it? I ask you here, in this place, on behalf of all Members, to stop such disrespectful work. As for the procedural part of my proposal, the second part of my proposal is that, given that you are misleading all the public looking at us, including us, Members sitting in here, let me disappoint you that some of us know the Rules of Procedure and the 134th Article, to which you also referred in your argument, that why general debate is not allowed today, says: "In the second reading of the bill, the National Assembly shall hold a debate on the individual articles to which the amendments have been tabled, and vote on individual amendments." You refer to this Article, this paragraph of this Article, if the President of the National Assembly has read this at the beginning of the meeting. Yes, of course, he read because it's a custom, every time we have a law before us that's being amended in second reading, it's read. As I have said before, in accordance with the 144th Article to which you refer, the general debate you are discussing is completely different from that of Members and Members. So my procedural proposal is – without your intervention, when individual Members or Members speak in general about the bill before us today. And the second part of the procedural proposal is, without the sexist remarks to the Members, because this is really not worthy of you, sir, as I thought you were, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u128	Controversy [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u129	It's not coming. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u130	with the chairman, Mrs. Hefferle. [[…]] Please hold on to this. I propose that we proceed with the debate. I'll just tell you what else the president of the National Assembly reads in the introduction to the point, you can see, you have a magnetogram. We're just working in accordance with what's written in the Rules of Procedure. How someone understands it is another question. [[advertising from the hall]] I run it the way I think it's right. Do you have Mr. Starović's replica? How? [[advertising from the hall]] Replica? For what, for whom? [[advertising from the hall]] He had a replica he couldn't, he had a procedural proposal. [[…]] No replicas [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You don't have a replica of my debate. All right, let's move on with the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Andrey Reich's procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u131	Please, Madam President, you have insulted my colleague Starović that he is not ready for discussion, and this is also said by my colleague Pogačnik, and of course this is an insult and rude and rude. So I'm asking you to stop making such insinuations. You're just not charming if you think you are. So, [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u132	Thank you very much. With regard to a warning, if a person discusses the law and the law more broadly, then this is not a debate on the amendment and the agenda item, and this means that the Member has not prepared himself for this content, which is at this moment on the table. You can't finish it any other way, can you? However, if I were to prepare myself for the content on the agenda, I would discuss the content, the specific content. [[advertising from the hall]] Gradually, Andrei Reich again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u133	Please explain that. In view of the fact that the first point of the 17 laws mentioned above is the case, please indicate which of these amendments is not affected.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u134	Thank you very much. You can look at the debate and see if the debate was about the agenda or not, there is no problem. Andrea Zabrett, colleague, you have the floor to discuss this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u135	Dear man, Mr. Tanko. [[Applause]] Thank you for your words, and after such a gruesome debate, the insults of colleague Tina Hefferle and of me personally and of your highness, it's just a little difficult to discuss, but I'll try. It also seems to me that it is difficult, in fact, to identify where the borders of a broader debate are in a broad law such as the PKP8, which contains from temporary and to permanent measures which this PKP law should not contain at all, and given that we are considering Article 1 when we know what all this Article deals with. Let's take a brief look at how we accept all the PKPs so far, today is the eighth in line, and before we even accept it, the government says that it is already preparing the ninth and that in the next we will really address everything. The modus operandi of this government is quite predictable, which means: the constant transfer of effective measures to the next CAP means that the government is avoiding responsibility and thereby causing additional damage to the economy. The CAP shall be adopted without the consent of the trade unions which this government and the Minister of Labour have consistently put on the sidelines. Involuntary interference with the Labour Constitution, with a permanent amendment to the Labour Relations Act, by compulsory retirement, means the destruction of democratic principles. The adoption of reckless and systematic legislative changes in intervention laws means the long-term destabilisation of public finances and the complete confusion in the legal order, as the Legislative and Legal Service also points out. In every marriage, the government brings in a man who's been framed. PKP 8 was no exception either. The government has devised a new offence to allow sanctions against practices contrary to programmes for the prevention, control, eradication and eradication of communicable diseases. No one knows exactly what kind of program this is and who will determine it. Nor did the State Secretary from the Ministry of Health at yesterday's Labour Committee know exactly what that means. The government obviously does not understand what intervention means, since in intervention legislation, where only temporary measures should be taken, for quick, urgent rescue of people and the economy, it is also constantly putting pressure on permanent systemic solutions. To sum up the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has been warning since the first CAP – serious warnings – that legislation is imprudent, incomprehensible, unclear and gives rise to a legally unsustainable situation. Above all, I would be particularly pleased if the President of the Government did not constantly boast that we should tell him which group is still being released, that he said it was not Slovenian or Slovenian, who would not have gotten anything after the PKP. First time. Groups which are forgotten or not sufficiently addressed are still being addressed. Secondly, whether it would not be more important for measures and money to be distributed more thoughtfully, economically and with a vision, rather than on average, that the SDS President is actually buying peace and polling points. At the time of the adoption of each PKP, we keep reminding ourselves of this at the Committee on Work until the second hour of the morning, and despite the long hours, it seems to me that we have been constructive and, at the same time, we are or are alert to the fact that the measures are ineffective, administratively complicated and too late. The government should have a selective approach to the preparation of measures. What does that mean? It should separate companies that are closed by decree and companies that work to a reduced extent. The government has again overlooked the problems and hardships of young students and finesse workers. Above all, what is most important is that there is still no clear plan on how to end the epidemic. This is precisely what it depends on how we get together after the crisis, what measures the Government will prepare for the economy it says will be in the CAP9. I think the government might already know, because we are already deep in the second wave, how companies can open their doors, self-employed people. We don't know yet. Some of them may not even be. Where are they gonna get the starters? We know that at the time of state aid, when most of the economy is artificially breathing, so-called zombie companies are created. In the event that they do not receive adequate support after the crisis, these companies will forgive or go bankrupt and only then will we face a social bomb. Therefore, I only hope that the words of the Head of the Government's Group for the preparation of the actions of Mr Matthew Lahovnik are gilded when it says that the crisis will end in March and that it is already looking forward to a strong recovery in the second half of the year. According to information, the Government with different ministries is expected to prepare calls for entrepreneurs after the epidemic. However, in doing so, we really want them to be such as to help as many businesses as possible, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it is afraid that these calls, like many measures so far, will only be made for certain companies and only for certain sectors. I can only give one small example; imagine some boutique that has been closed for months and in this boutique are currently all winter clothes, this boutique may open in the spring, I don't know, in the summer. I can't imagine now – these clothes, which are winter clothes, you can't sell in the summer, so these clothes can only be sold for minimal money, but I don't know where this owner will get money for buying a new collection, let's say summer. And this is what I'm talking about: that such small businesses and self-employed people will also have to be recognized as needing help. In the LMŠ yesterday, we proposed a number of additions to the work committee, which we are also re-investing today, we proposed an amendment to the measure of reimbursement of fixed costs. Indeed, in the case of self-employed persons, the basic income was counted as income, so that self-employed persons could not show losses, which resulted in an unjustified return on fixed costs. This is mainly the case, as I have already mentioned, for self-employed people, and it is also necessary to help them survive, as the Government has also banned this small espionage by decree that they can work as well as larger companies. Unfortunately, however, this amendment has not been adopted. The next amendment we tabled was about minimum wage. Directly because of the epidemic and raises the minimum wage from 1. 1. 2021 The government in PKP8 proposed to subsidise the minimum wage in a way that would be the lowest basis for paying contributions in the amount of the minimum wage fixed by the Minister for a thousand 24 euros and not of the average wage of EUR 843 for 2020, which will be even higher. In fact, this amount has not yet been included in December's salary. We also need to know that the average wage for 2020 has risen disproportionately due to the additions of covid. And since this minimum basis for the payment of contributions from the minimum wage applies only to employees, but not to the contributions of independent entrepreneurs, this means unequal treatment, and this is pointed out by several different stakeholders. This will mean that self-employed people will on average pay at least €240 more per year. In order not to do so and to prevent this unequal treatment and because the self-employed also deserve the same assistance, we proposed an amendment where the self-employed would also pay minimum contributions from the minimum wage from July to the end of 2021, not from the average wage. We also adopted this amendment on the committee yesterday. Furthermore, this amendment also provides that the State budget would then cover the difference between the amount of contributions paid from the minimum wage and the average wage. On the contrary, if not, these people may be deprived of their pensions. However – how predictable – the position has today tabled an amendment and thus destroyed all our efforts and the desire to help self-employed people. We have also tabled an amendment on remuneration with all taxes and contributions – I am talking about gross two – to employers, whose government will also reimburse gross two in PKP8, but only for the period since this year, and we have made an amendment that this applies since 19 October 2020, since the epidemic. Again, we propose compensation for students who cannot work through student travel fees due to the epidemic, amounting to one twelfth of the annual income in 2019, with the upper limit being the minimum wage. This amendment was not adopted yesterday either, so today we are re-investing it, and we hope that today will be a little more cooperative by the coalition. Finally, I would like to stress that public finances must also be taken into account. We've already spent a lot of money, which we don't know exactly where he went. If we want to help businesses after the epidemic, we're going to have to put in a few more. The fact that the government is constantly bragging about how good credit ratings we have and how we owe ourselves for very low or negative interest is still true, but it is important to tell people honestly that this is not what the Government is doing and that this debt will eventually have to be paid. In fact, Slovenia has to refinance two to three billion euros each year already years ago. This means that when we have to refinance these debts, money will not always be so cheap. And once we've done these things, we'll have to pay the bill for the wrong decisions of this government. In the LMŠ we are constantly alerting and in each CAP we also propose that measures should be more deliberate, effective and more targeted, especially in the economy and in those activities which are closed due to government decisions. But this government and the position that could support any of our amendments doesn't want to or doesn't want to. Finally, I think that we must all remember together that there is no economy without jobs and that there are no jobs without an economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this point? [[Yeah.]] I see that there is still interest, so I will reopen the debate or application for the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 1. Eight registered. The word is by Ambassador Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a new package of measures, an anti-Korona package that is actually designed to save people. I can say that this is the first government to save and pay attention to people after a few decades or after a good decade, because the present-day governments are all, more or less, saving a bank hole and banks. I think people in the field feel that way. Do you imagine the crisis we're in so we don't have all the measures? How would life go in Slovenia? The epidemic really has a strong impact on the economy and, as a result, it also affects life and, of course, the social security of people. In the National Assembly, we have heard many times that the best social policy is a good job policy that can afford individuals and families a decent life through personal income or through work benefits. New Slovenia is also most aware of this, that this is the most important social policy in the country. Of course, because of the epidemic situation, covid is also severely reduced in this area and I agree with the words just spoken for the end, a colleague who said that there are no jobs without an economy and no economy without jobs. That's right! This is also the package that we have before us today. Why – because he is simply solidarity. Solidaren in the form of solidarity allowances for disabled persons, solidarity in the additions to the crisis allowance for workers who are employed, for pensioners. He's been in solidarity with those who have the lowest pensions twice. Solidaren is in the children's allowance, for large families, for students. Today, too, it is a solidarity supplement for students who study in foreign universities. Solidaren is to war veterans and solidarity with the unemployed after March 2020. And I probably let a lot of people go. This was the purpose and is the purpose of all anti-Korona measures to help people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Every package we've adopted is expanding and searching for the most vulnerable in society to help them. Protecting — what I hear today — workers against entrepreneurs, that they are some ugly capitalists, I must say that I condemn this and this is a class fight for me. I condemn any class fight because I believe that Slovenia is a democratic social state where the rules apply where people respect each other. I myself support all measures, including in the past, including from the tax area, in order to keep workers as far as possible from their income they deserve. Unfortunately, there may be many who do not share a similar opinion or look at equality, but I am still convinced that this is the only way. When the crisis will be over – this has been heard many times today, yesterday, in the last 11 months. When will the crisis be over? I sincerely hope it will be as soon as possible. I am afraid, however, there is no obvious between us that I could say that this crisis will end in February, and this crisis will end in March, May or June. That is why I believe that in the future the government will do everything in its power, and so does the whole world, including the whole of Europe, that it will have hearing for the weakest and that it will also have hearing to keep jobs and people above the water level. That's what we do. And I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Member Igor Peček has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the introduction, I would like to say that I will discuss the content of the intervention law in accordance with Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure in particular, although the impression may be at least a little more general at the beginning, but it is also a general content. However, I will be consistent and stick to the content of Article 1 above, and I will talk about the reasons which are also related to the content of the amendments proposed in the LMŠ as a complement to this law. Unfortunately, I also find that there is another uncoordinated intervention law ahead of us. The social partners also point out this time, as they have done before, that the proposed law has omitted content that has in some way been agreed upon and harmonised. In my opinion, this merely points to the irrational and self-sufficient behaviour of the government, which the government then excuses by the fact that we are in the midst of a health and economic crisis, we are afraid of the social crisis and that measures must be rushed. And this with a self-constructed excuse – whoever does it quickly does it twice. But one who quickly makes the wrong one cannot. The crisis has lasted for ten months and almost every month we have a proposal for action in the National Assembly, and unfortunately the government has not shown the necessary will to properly analyse the effects and, above all, the effectiveness of the measures; and based on this analysis, it has foreseen solutions that would be effective. Of the billions that we have promised in the beginning to the workers and the economy, we are talking today about a performance that is less than 30%. That's what we all know how to calculate. For some entrepreneurs, the 30% realisation of planned revenue is not a success. In my view, one of the important reasons why this is so is precisely because there was no need for dialogue or what was done and what was effective in doing it, and in particular what is still to be done. This disharmony, the unwillingness to seek common solutions led us to this; but with the opposition by default common solutions cannot be found or cannot be found, I have learned this in these years since I am sitting here; although I am sure that there was a number of proposals that have been made by the opposition, good and well-intentioned. But this disharmony has led us to what? Unfortunately, the gap between employers and trade unions has become so large that it is virtually difficult to compromise. And that is what all of us — not just government representatives, including other stakeholders — should be most concerned about. If you are strictly and unilaterally advocating only and only your interests, there is no common solution in favour of both partners. Unfortunately, the last dialogue also took place in the same way. The Minister may deny it, but what we were able to learn on Saturday, 23 January, at nine o'clock began coordination with the social partners, without a mandate, government representatives justified the non-acceptance of proposals. The government then terminated the coordination and approved a law inconsistent with the Economic and Social Council. What is more or less important is that it has also violated the rules on the functioning of the Economic and Social Council. We have agreed rules setting out how to negotiate in intervention legislation. Now, according to the content of the proposed amendments. We have been warning, defending and proposing a simple, predictable and proportionate model of power in the LMŠ since the beginning, especially in the second wave of the epidemic. The model on which companies would be able to make an assessment, the forecast, when and how much resources to solve their problems, should this be due to reduced revenue flows due to indirect difficulties arising from lower sales or lower revenues and directly linked to liquidity. And what's happening now, which we're reminded of every day, believe me, there's insolvency on a daily basis. And the worst part is, when you get hit by insolvency, you don't have any influence on it; you don't have any influence on it because you can't operate on the market anymore. And you don't act your own way or because you don't have a product or service that you could market, but because of the decree or epidemic that hurt us. And that doesn't fly as a subjective observation of what's going on. What is not in the PKP and what were we trying to propose for the amendments? What I miss the most is that after ten months of dealing with the epidemic, there is still no selective approach to solving the problems of businesses in different sectors. The fact is that businesses or industries do not feel crisis situations, and in particular the consequences of the epidemic to the same extent. The structure of revenue is different in companies, the structure of costs is different, after all, the margins you achieve and from which you sometimes hide, say, virtual profit, are not the same. We believe that we should first separate companies which, due to government measures, have been shut down or are closed and unable to carry out their activities from those companies which have been able to carry out their activities to a reduced extent. It is clear that measures should be developed to help those companies to ensure that the effects of the aid are different. A similar solution, which would also solve this problem, which I have now described, has already been proposed in the previous package, the seventh, in the form of a refund on revenue losses. We are also now making a similar amendment, proposing a drawback of 80 % of sales revenue for businesses or for those entities that are unable to deal with their activities because of the government's decision or because of the epidemic. What I said was not a selective approach. We have an example, colleague Edvard Paulič said, but I would not like to repeat myself, the case of Austria, how a selective principle is implemented in practice. It's effective. Our neighbouring country has distributed revenue replacements by grade according to the sector's specificities. According to the estimated turnover decline, a percentage of the aid was also fixed. It is clear to all that the sale of vehicles does not need the same effect of the aid in question as the catering activity, where the structure, once again, I say, the structure of revenues and, consequently, the costs are quite different, not to mention the effect of the stocks not sold. Have we ever thought about that?Oh, my God! I hope that it is clear to us what is the stock or difference of stock for someone who is engaged in a food activity, or the stock that lies in a store, for an entity that is engaged in a non-food activity. I also hope that the clear concept of non-agricultural stocks or when these stocks become non-agricultural and what is the cost of non-agricultural stocks not only in terms of tax but also in terms of market value assessments. Now, one more concrete thing about a particular activity, which I have already stressed once. The fact is that certain activities have been the duration of the ignore epidemic, leading to safe hospitality, tourism and the meeting industry. The lack of a strategy after the epidemic and the development of these activities, among other things, would not be discussed at all. I read, however, that the government is already or will begin to think about aid to start businesses after the epidemic, although I think that model should have been completed and agreed long ago. Agreed because companies will also be prepared to do so, so that the employees whose jobs we are currently maintaining with the PKPs will be maintained, we will also have these jobs in the future; otherwise, the social impact will be such that after the epidemic is over, we will not be able to control them. This situation in the hospitality and tourism sector would be illustrated by certain figures, and then I conclude, Mr Vice-President. I would also mention these figures because the interpretation of these numbers – otherwise updated – has been used very improperly in one of the discussions of fellow Members as a populism. In December 2020, 87 000 233 unemployed were registered; 3,7 % more than November, 15,9 % more than December 2019. Growth, quickly calculated, more than 11,000, almost 12. According to data, these are reliable data from the Employment Office, by the end of November the number of unemployed in the catering and tourism sector had increased to - and this time I repeat - to and from - as previously interpreted, to 11 thousand 365. This applies to November 2020. Of this, from the beginning of the epidemic until the end of October 9 thousand 537 were new from the industry of hospitality and tourism. Of this, at the end of November or the end of October, the hospitality segment was 7 thousand 585, at the end of December 7 thousand 874. Every month we record growth and index December 2020 – December 2019 is 179. A 79% increase in the number of unemployed while a colleague says that the increase in the number of unemployed is not alarming. I tried to point out two problems, the others were talked about by my colleagues, so I don't want to repeat myself. As far as content or content is concerned, the explanation of the content is concerned, and more so below. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Cigler the King asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! I am grateful for the constructive debate you have just discussed, especially the latest implementations have been open cards and open heads. And I like that, and even yesterday on the committee, there were some such discussions to be felt with everything else, as the chairman of the committee has mentioned a little. However, that the measures proposed in the current CAPs are appropriate and that we are also targeting them further, PKP8 and PKP9, which we are somehow preparing, although perhaps even here on the left hand side I felt a little obvious that we are preparing them. I think it is good that the advantage that we already think we are already thinking, we are already conceptually preparing it primarily with the desire that PKP9 is a knot or a loop at the end of the wrapping of the gift, if I can use this as an example, in the sense that PKP9 would be a logical conclusion that would consolidate all packages and actually offer Slovenia a good exit strategy. Perhaps I would go back in the debates because I was invited to present a little bit, on which analysis and data we base our actions. I can say that it is already by the end of 2020, but of course we have been monitoring their analyses before, Umar already had clear data, analysis of the impact of our actions. And Umar made it clear in his regular reports that labour market measures and measures for the economy actually eased the decline in GDP in 2020 by three percentage points or more than three percentage points. In the event of such a fall as we have experienced or experienced by other countries, it is a concrete measure or concrete pillow that helps alleviate this decline in economic activity in Slovenia. This was also among others a signal and a confirmation that the measures are good, that this focus on the labour market and assistance to keep jobs in exactly the right proportions; in combination with the fact that we have not generally closed or stopped the economy. Only where it was necessary, but not elsewhere. And also the unemployment rate, which many of us have recognised as actually successful together – and I will say again – with the social partners somehow maintain one balance, even the dynamics of the labour market, that we are, in comparison with the other members of the European Union, relatively well placed in the unemployment rate. Here is a public and communicative information that we are actually in the seventh place between the European Union countries, purely in Germany, in December 2020. Germany – 4.6%, Slovenia – 4.7%. And in fact, we are trying in some way with all the measures, including the PKP7 measure, to pursue an agreed working relationship for those who meet the age pension conditions, to catalyse this labour market and to allow for the extension of work activities at both ends of the age range. So, on the one hand, to help older categories of workers who are really in a large percentage in Slovenia, which is 65%, permanently unemployed, which is not good. On the other hand, to help create a situation so that young people can enter the labour market first. And it was this PKP7 measure that was somehow also attacked at the board meeting, but for the moment, thank God, it stood. This measure also helps to maintain the dynamics of the labour market. With regard to labour market measures, part-time – I can say with data up to and including mid-November that the Employment Office has received almost 13,000 applications from employers to partially subsidise this reduction in working time by 60,000 employees. And for this measure until mid-November, we paid almost 9.5 million euros to employers for just over 17 thousand 400 people. By mid-November, the agency had already paid EUR 301 million and almost EUR 302 million for the job-waiting measure, EUR 240 000 for the quarantine measure and EUR 9.5 million for the short-term measure and for the temporary cash refund – almost a million euros. It is with these measures that we have helped to maintain close to 300,000 jobs. And why we are more dynamic with these intervention measures. I don't think we're unique, even European comparatively, in that we can't predict everything. The virus is new, we still call it a new coronary virus, black scientists every day learn anything new about this virus, about the consequences, about covid-19 disease, but at the same time the virus is unpredictable. We can see that the disease is unpredictable, that almost everyone else is getting over it, and the consequences are still not clear. The course of the epidemic is just what it is. It is very difficult – apart from the models with which the National Assembly has also been informed – to try to anticipate and guide some measures, this will be better known by a colleague from the Ministry of Health, including by favouring or controlling, but the labour market and the economy are responding to this situation. We calculated that after the first wave, when the economy relaunched that there would be more businesses, we tried to redirect businesses from a job-waiting measure to a short-term job. [[…]] We wanted to help them to move as much as possible to another measure that would then help them to start up gradually; but, look, there came a second wave and we had to extend our work at home. We have now strengthened it with PKP8 for those who are closed by government action. We're going to pay back the full salary to wait for work at home. I can say that at least those who have responded to this announcement of this return of another gross government-prohibited activity have responded positively. They see this as a step against this government and, I believe, also the National Assembly, which – and I believe so – will today confirm this bill. And another good thing just happened yesterday. As a result of the increase in the amount of State aid allowed, this amount could also be increased for companies. And there will no longer be a limit of EUR 800,000 per company, but a million EUR 800,000; and this is a significant difference, which can also mean a great deal for individual companies that benefit from these measures. I am grateful for these discussions on the labour market, that we have a common objective – a responsive labour market, and that we see value in what is the main objective and purpose of our government measures – to preserve jobs. And almost 300,000 help to preserve them, so that Slovenia, the Slovenian economy after this coronary epidemic, can make rapid reflection and rapid growth. And as someone already mentioned in the debate today, well, stable growth in the second half of 2021.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Replica, Igor Pecek. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to be brief. No, Mr. Secretary, to challenge what you've said. There's one thing I'd like to point out. What I said in my debate on the number of unemployment; the activities are very different and we cannot throw everything in one basket, say that 85,000 is the average, we have indices – because we can get the data analyzed with very little knowledge of mathematics – and we see what is the problem. But what you've said is, I just want to explain to you why we're in the seventh place and we can't let that go. We can't compare with Germany. The Slovenian economy cannot be compared to the German economy absolutely, because the structure of the activities and the shares in the economy are completely different or the differences are too great compared to ours. And I believe and I hope we're aware of that. But I'd like to mention what I said and what you said. That won't be a replica, but don't take my word, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, waiting for work and working hours. But here I absolutely agree with you. It is significantly better for the company and to keep the company in a fit state, it is in condition, reduced working time. And here, I think, we made a mistake. However, we made a mistake in having companies recalculated, the subsidies were different and they could calculate what the subsidy brought them when waiting compared to the subsidy in the case of reduced working time. This is where we made a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Minister, shall we proceed with the debate? We continue the debate. Member Marko Bandelli has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u145	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Minister, listen to you, if someone wasn't in the economy, I could almost believe your words. They're beautiful, optimistic words, beautiful rumors, everything they are. But those who are from the economy that we come from 30 years from an economy that we are entrepreneurs know what the real situation is. And you're very optimistic about this situation if you're saying you've saved 300,000 jobs. Nobody knows what's gonna happen tomorrow. Because now you have saved them because of the system you have chosen, how, how to finance this matter. You have now financed taxes and contributions; you have put emphasis on this. You said yourself that then you changed your theory and then you went on short notice. It's a mistake. Because you saved the day, you really saved the middle and big companies. Most employees in Slovenia, however, are in small and micro enterprises. This is 70% of the active labour force. And you didn't benefit from any of what you put here. And I'll give you that because it's data, and that's what the Chamber of Commerce tells you, that's what the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia tells you. Above all, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The PKP8 is full of nice words in it again. You describe all possible categories, it's respectable, really, because I say that the country helps; but not even in the eighth package did you give aid, it's not covered by the substance, and it's specific help to micro and small businesses. That's what I always say, but you don't hear, you don't know where the problem is. To solve with package 9, package 9 – it is already too late because the case will end there. And whoever dies will die. Do you understand me or not? And that's what I'm telling you. Everyone has certain liquid assets. What will they have to take loans to save their businesses, which you brutally stopped?Oh, my God! Where's the logic now? Why can't certain companies work? Because you deliberately stopped them. Shops, guest shops, various institutions, that's all stopped. Do you understand or not? They're still locked up and fighting a battle, literally a battle for survival. Day after day. How come this thing doesn't get in your head here? You can't know if you're not from this. What you're doing on the government right now, forgive me, minister and all the government, is a disgrace, you're destroying a literal economy. You're destroying trade in general. You've destroyed the concept of trade. It's been closed for three months. The hotel's been closed for almost four months. Do you understand that or not? Those wages don't mean anything, because for those wages, the rest of the people are employed because they're getting money from you because of a poof we make every month more. Do you understand me or not, what I'm saying? And that's the biggest problem. Not because of the activity. Not because of the activity, because it doesn't work. By offering some wage compensation. It's nothing. Where are all the other taxes these companies have every day?Oh, my God! Where do they get the money if they're closed? How many of those reserves do they still have at their disposal to do this in order to bridge this thing?Oh, my God! And boast that you will keep 300,000 jobs. I wish it would be, but I'm afraid it won't. And let me understand that. The various costs of installations are so high that they will not pass on the existence. You know what I mean. They'll take another 10, 15 days. If we don't open up business and trade in 15 days, it's gonna be a crisis. They are fixed costs, which are always the burden of the owner, the entrepreneur, always, the trader. I don't understand that. But you are without any problem, and without any problem, you have increased the level of contributions to religious officials. That was really what we had to do. It's the Catholic Church that doesn't pay taxes or real estate taxes or nothing. These properties, for which practically the companies to which you have really banned the operation, I use this expression because you are the only one you understand, this brutal order by the government – the ban on action. Do you understand what this is, you've banned the operation for three or more months, you're paying for anything yourself. I made a proposal yesterday on compensation for the use of building land. I hope it falls on your ears. This is one thing where we can solve these micro and small businesses that have to pay NUSZ. Deal with the congregations without the congregations giving it to them. Refund them, then. We will come into one phase, if we say so, post-crisis or post-coronavirus, and what is, from this stage, we will get out explicitly, just because of ingenuity, good will probably, knowledge, innovation of businesses. Like they did in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. At the time, the state helped nothing. And I'm saying it again. They dug themselves out of this crisis, even this time if they will. And if you want this to happen and the truth to come out of this crisis, make one tax reform. That's a suggestion. This is a proposal from people who know what this is all about. One tax reform to help these companies. Big companies will dig all out, they've got all the money; and you said before, I don't know how much money. And you're also giving them liquidity and what needs to be done. But small businesses can't even afford to take credit. They can't. Do you understand what we're saying? Once you leave behind your government's depressive aggression and start preparing one concrete proposal, concrete suggestions on how to get out of this crisis. You just give, you give 50 euros, you give 150 euros, you give that 300 euros. It's given and given, but it'll have to be returned one day. Give money to those who need it to sustain our workforce, our workforce, our entrepreneurship, our economy. That's not gonna come out. I think it is necessary to make one reform to help the economy, mandatory. For the re-growth and for the re-development of our country. And there are no suggestions on the table. Now you said there'd be something in nine. It's all too late in nine. I hope it's too late. I hope we get out of this thing. And now I'm going to finish, and I'm only going to say a little sooner because I have to mention my colleague Dimic. From Nova Slovenije you always beat, nonstop with our client. But I'll tell you what. We have left in the previous government 240 million surpluses of revenue over expenditure. That's a fact. You'll leave 10 billion poofs. That's also a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Andrej Chernigoj has the next word. Get ready, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u147	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I'm very sorry to miss the representatives of the Left because they're not in the Hall, but I hope they're watching on TV screens. Let me, as the first in this Chamber, condemn the planned vandal action at the premises of the NGO of the Institute of Honesty. Judge for yourselves, but this is what I attribute mainly to political pomp and intolerance. To whom – decide again. The current government, including the government team, experts in all visual opinions and political spectrum and, of course, with knowledge, Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats, and in particular Minister Janez Cigler the King, assisted the economy, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and every individual in the seven intervention measures to date from 1 April 2020 to the vast majority in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me highlight some of the achievements of this government's actions, which are fully equivalent to those of the European Union countries and around the world. We are saving 300,000 jobs through a job-waiting measure. That's what 32,000 businesses do. It's not fiction, it's numbers, it's facts. The data of the European Union show that measures in the Republic of Slovenia are working, as unemployment in Slovenia is among the lower in Europe, and data numbers for young people also show. Another thing is, are real data, Slovenia's credit rating is AA-. This means a stable promise. This does not mean a defeat of Slovenia, but a stable prospect for the future. One billion and 100 million Euros are economists, the craftsmen have received only for the purpose of saving employees, and all this support has gone to these employees. Therefore, I ask all listeners and listeners who listen to the representatives of the Left that when you hear the word capitalists in their case, please replace it with the word employees when we talk about the effects of the CAP. I find it difficult to represent the position of Levice against employers, entrepreneurs and tradesmen. Personally, I think, and I am sure, that without these persons — craftsmen, entrepreneurs — I also find it difficult to represent the ordinary workers and the workers for whom they advocate, as they say. This PKP follows people's needs, and this is the purpose. The Left claims otherwise because they oppose everything to mention – the Slovenian Army, the rest of the opposition; and apparently also advocates some other people and their privileges. We help disabled people, businesses, minimum wage people, students, and I could count. That's why I'm wondering which people left. Finally, I would like to point out who this capitalist is, who Levica is so demeaning. For me, this man is a neighbor who has espé and deals with design and computing. A colleague who owns a bar and has two waitresses. A friend who is an auto mechanic, a acquaintance who has a company and ten employees, but also an ulcer on his stomach and sleepless nights because he does not know how to provide money for wages and contributions. Who is this capitalist? I'm against protecting all of Slovenia against these people. We do not separate or demonize in New Slovenia; we unite and connect. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the work of some of the representatives of the Left on yesterday's Labour Committee. Is that a bonton at the level of human dignity? Did you protest yesterday? Did you clap? Nothing, none of this, you were as quiet as mice. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u148	Thank you very much for this debate. The next one is Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Get ready, Mr. Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! It is true that we listened very much last night, especially on the left hand side, about giving too much capital to the economy. Today, just a little earlier, I was hearing from my left neighbor, the SAB, that we had given too little to actually spend too little on them. When you're in the opposition, you can talk a lot, but unfortunately you can do a little less. However, the coalition and the government must find balanced measures to help our economy and our people as successfully as possible. This eighth package is certainly very welcome, and for some it is also absolutely necessary, as it will mitigate and remedy some other negative consequences in the area of economy, labour relations, labour market, social, including health care, some measures are being extended, some are being added again. The key measures are therefore also this partial compensation for temporary workers' salaries, as we have heard, which is now extended until 30 April 2021, with the possibility of being extended twice a month. It is also very important that it is also stated in the law that the remuneration must not be lower than the minimum wage, which I think is very important, even for those with low wages. One of the very important measures that we are warmly welcoming in the SMC is that companies which are closed under a government decree must therefore be closed on the basis of a government decision are covered by a hundred per cent cost, i.e. other gross wages for workers. This measure seems to us to be very thoughtful and, in fact, necessary to keep businesses in good shape and to avoid forgiveness as a result. I am glad that the minimum wage has now been raised, the workers certainly deserve it, of course, even higher. But in these circumstances, which are currently, the rise was as great as it was possible. In two ways, however, the state will help these employers, with a wage subsidy of EUR 50 per month for these workers on minimum wages in the first half of the year; and in the second half of 2021 by paying employers a slightly lower base than the amount of the minimum wage. Here yesterday, the Minister on the Labour Committee made it clear that this will not result in lower pensions, because this was also the concern of some, and an amendment has also been tabled to this account, since the lowest pension base is now established, from which pensions are then charged. In fact, we can also see in practice that workers who have worked on a minimum wage all year long if their pensions were calculated today from their minimum wage would probably be around €400. However, the law was passed, which was adopted in the previous term under the government of Mira Cerar, which determined what the lowest pension is for the full pension period; and this now amounts to some €550. This slightly lower payment of these 6 months will not affect a lower pension than anticipated. In fact, we are also pleased that the government and the individual ministry have also listened to our appeals immediately when we discovered that a group of people had fallen out. For example, when workers who received a Christmas pay in December along with the November salary were also paid off, they fell out of paying off this crisis allowance. It's getting better now. Then the full-year students who have fallen out of the previous package are now included, including students who study abroad, then the disabled will also receive certain supplements under the Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities. For example, for farmers who are insured or on farms, it has not been possible to reduce working hours for workers who are employed on farms under employment contracts, and this is also being resolved. The Red Cross and Karitas also have certain funds, because they now have a lot of work to do, and the Red Cross also has a income outage, because, of course, first aid courses are not being carried out because driving exams were not carried out at that time. I have to say, we really figure out what's necessary, how to help. Even now we have had the opportunity to all make proposals together for the next package. Here, too, by the SMC, I appeal to the government to really try to find a little bit more help in the next package, or to listen to these small entrepreneurs, independent entrepreneurs who today actually live entirely from this UTD, this basic income. In particular, those who have any rental facilities are currently in very severe distress, because with this universal basic income they barely cover their social security contributions and then these costs of restaurants, rent. In fact, they have very little to live for. Every epidemic has its end and every recovery has its beginning. I hope that this end is really getting closer and that the beginning of recovery is also approaching. Of course, we are aware that the first half of this year will be very difficult for the economy. But with optimism, we look forward and hope that the second half of this year will indeed be much more encouraging and that both the government and the ministry will go against certain measures, calls for an early recovery of the economy. We ourselves know that much will have to be done to help the host, tourism and many others. Then I'm going to take another call at one of the other amendments, and in general, I'm going to make that call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Vojko Starović has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Vice President, and also thank you for keeping us able to speak. I wanted to replicate, but I didn't want to file a procedural file. In my debate, I announced in advance that in this general work I would point to some mistake made in democracy. Democracy is looking for dialogue, integration, seeking expertise, seeking compromises. However, I have stressed that we cannot succeed at exclusion and threats. My call is to stick to the dialogue, to respect and bring him here. That was the point. And at the outset, I also said that in the second part of the amendments, I would do more specifically. However, I have received from the President that I am not prepared, which he has no right to comment on my statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart now has the floor. But prepare yourself as the last in this round, Mr Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Yes, we have a very important task ahead of us at the time of the epidemic, a respected minister who is not here at the moment, and representatives of the ministries. In this global health crisis, which, of course, is becoming more and more economic, or is already here, as well as the overall social crisis, and unfortunately also the parliamentary crisis, which we have witnessed today in this area. All eyes are fixed on the economy after the epidemic, when the measures stop when they are removed. And this is a priority of the problem of this epidemic also in the LMŠ, which we are constantly repeating through all the anti-Korona measures that we have been addressing so far. Many questions arise to entrepreneurs who wonder why they cannot work and create, because this would not only help themselves, but also the wider society; not to ask for help and thus increase the common debt of the country or society to which, of course, it all translates. We wonder why we have not allowed and still do not allow entrepreneurs to operate in activities where it is possible to ensure individual treatment of activities or customers, such as autoservice activities, smaller salons with furniture, white techniques and many more of these activities. On the other hand, large companies operate normally for running lanes and with a lot of contacts. And here's the kind of discrimination that entrepreneurs feel. These are the issues that entrepreneurs deal with in micro and small enterprises and do not understand. And they wonder what will happen tomorrow, the day after they will be able to start their activity at all; they will be able to go to the market tomorrow. We are talking about entrepreneurs and workers in shops, in catering, tourist workers, service activities, cleaners, cleaners, auto mechanics, irons, fine-mechanicals, of course, as well as independent entrepreneurs of micro and small businesses. How many independent micro and small enterprise entrepreneurs will survive after the epidemic a financial reorganisation, a forced settlement? How many will end up in bankruptcy, in liquidation? How many of them are going to lose their assets through these procedures? Are we even dealing with these questions? When I look at other countries, I see a lot of these questions and they're also dealing with them. This is the traffic light that will show the real picture at the end of the tunnel, so what happens? There is much talk about the government's successful actions, tourist vouchers, one-off benefits for pensioners, lower-income groups, some for young groups, unfortunately not all of them; and, like all countries in the European Union, the greatest help for those who do not have a job, i.e. workers on temporary waiting for work. But I'm glad you recognized and supported businesses during the epidemic to keep the minimum wage up. This is very important in the long term for the development of Slovenia in catching up to the development of the European Union average, but this does not apply only to the time of the epidemic. Then the economy or the labour market must take over. Without that, I'm afraid you can't. Unfortunately, this is not what tomorrow, the right day then, would provide the final solution to the current crisis. The real help we must have before our eyes is to help businesses, the economy, to revive the economy tomorrow, the day after that, and to achieve a level before the epidemic. So GDP growth and value added, the amount of these budgets with taxes on all four bills – health, pension, local administration, municipalities and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia itself to come back to the 2019 level. It is important that these 250,000 workers after these 32,000 entities, which the minister mentioned in the debate today, who are receiving assistance today by waiting for work tomorrow, the day after which they are full again. When this is known, the respected government will then be able to say whether or not we were successful with the measures, or whether in 2022, 2023, 2025 and so on, we will keep at least 87%, measured by GDP, the average of the European Union. Yeah, that's a fact. We are still hunting and under the average of the European Union family. It will be difficult to achieve this objective of the average of the European Union, only to achieve the best. And it would be good if we could talk more about that goal. That's the goal, if we want to achieve it, of course. With everything you do with anti-korona measures and everything else you wrap up in these packages, you're laying some other foundation that is likely to be solved by another government, and that's going to be a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u154	Thank you very much. As the last in this round, Mr Dusan Šisko will also be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u155	Chairman, thank you very much. There's been a lot of talk here today, since the Eighth Crown Act, and there's already a nine coming up. But something else bothered me. I know at least two cases, and I'm sorry the Minister isn't in here right now so he can give me an explanation. Maybe someone else can figure it out for me. For the single amount which was divided in PKP8 for pupils up to the age of 18 and for students and had to be completed by 31 January. But you tell me now, I have two cases. The student is 19 years old. And when he asked, he started to meet, he got the answer that he couldn't get these funds, one small 50 euros. What if we keep doing the math? You go to school when you're six, she's nine years old, plus four years old, and she's 19 years old. We will certainly give this initiative in the Slovenian National Party to place and correct a mistake for these 19-year-old students. Then let's go. I do not understand how it is possible already not to know from which PKP law that taxi drivers can drive three different persons, but by no means can the school perform its activities. In the last marriage, the school was able to perform, but the teacher had to be tested every 72 hours. Be careful, a teacher sitting next to a driver must be tested every 72 hours and a cab driver does not need to be tested. And we consider the school a school of some kind. They can't run tests. Even if they do, they can't drive. They propose, however, because I think even the government will receive this letter, an initiative, a request from Slovenian driving teachers to be tested at least once a week or for 14 days. And that the candidate is tested once a week and every time he gets to the day he takes the ride. It is true that the government has confirmed some of our initiatives, which we are happy to do. But I am even happier than Posavic that we finally came to the light horizon and that this region, black, began to mention us, because for a while we belonged to Dolenjska, for some time under Styria. But, dear fellows, we are Posavics and we will also stand by if the regions are to make Posavia a self-sustaining region. As the ninth CAP is already preparing, I now predict that we will put all that I have said and any other matter on the government to deal with each of our proposals. Then we'll see what she confirms and what she doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We have completed this round of reported debaters, but it is also an interest, so I am opening a new round. Please sign in. We have seven interviewees reported. The first one gets the word, Mrs. Jerca Korča. Get ready, mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I will start with our common future or the future of this country, and these are young people. That social group, which is completely ignored again in this package. In all packages, the government in some way systematically ignores this social group. I'm talking about 150,000 students and students in our country, out of which 100,000 were students. Twenty thousand, sadly, had to do college work to stay and study, so that they survived at all. In the first wave of the epidemic, the student labour supply dropped by 90%, in the second wave by about 60%. And the data is that students lost more than 75 million in 2020 through student work. What did the government do? It has earmarked €150 twice. One such measure cost the government a total of around eight million. It's sad. And I agree with those who have said, including student organisations and many students, that this is a practical mockery of these people. This is how the intergenerational conflict is created. In this case, I am talking about an economic intergenerational conflict. This generation will also pay off the debts that arise today due to all the expenses we have. And we have children who are somehow limited to going to school for the purpose of preventing the spread of infections, on the other hand, these schools are closed for a variety of reasons because of the rise in infections in nursing homes. This is also where intergenerational conflict is created when children are shut down because there is an increase in infections in their homes for older citizens. And this creation of conflicts, which the government is committed to, is a very bad journey for the future of every society and country. Unemployment among young people under 25 is 14.6%. The government likes to say that unemployment has not increased, but among this population last year, unemployment was 8.3%, and today we are above the European average. Then we talk about nicknames, about those in different forms of employment, which are also usually the representatives of the younger generation. And those, too, are completely ignored in all packages. And this is how a new social group is created – and this is very intentional, because we constantly bring amendments to your table at least to save those who have worked through the student service, and you systematically reject them. In the List of Marjan Šarca we brought it back to the table in the eighth package, the result was seen on the committee yesterday. This is called a smooth rejection and ignorance of a social group. The main message that we are almost all repeating in the Marjana Sharca List is that aid to industries is unsatisfactory; and that is to those sectors that have been banned by the government by decree. Of course, we are talking about the fact that the government has forbidden someone to work. And when you do that, it is the duty of the state or in this case of the government and of course our legislators to ensure that these people get help very quickly, to the right extent, and that this assistance is effective, without any specific bureaucratic procedures, without waiting for them to receive anything at all for months. Worse still, activities that are closed do not even get explanations as to why they remain closed. And if we're talking about florists who are watching how in the big malls the items that they also offer can be sold. Even if we're talking about innkeepers, even if we're talking not long ago about autoservices, car washes and so on. And why these are not explained by the government. Let's say we read an article in the Journal today, Mr Krek said we don't have the strictest, but we have the longest. And it is explained that the measure of restricting the movement of municipalities has not significantly affected the reduction of mobility and has been in force for three months. But mobility is, of course, the one that helps spread infections. Of course, because we have 54% of all deaths in senior citizens' homes. And it is clear from the analysis that this measure, which has been in force for three months, does not work. And I wonder if we would have the same analysis for each activity separately, what would these analyses show, that is, how much the closure of cosmetic salons has helped to increase the number of infections. As the main error has been made in the absence of protection in the homes for older citizens, no quarantine decisions have been issued during a given period and, of course, in the case of the legal basis for the payment of hospital and self-isolation benefits, quarantine and so on. Activities do not get explanations as to why they are closed. On the other hand, they do not receive rapid effective assistance. Yesterday we said a lot about fixed costs and a lot of things, which is not properly regulated. And the problem is to distinguish the specifics of individual activities. Now I will, because this opportunity has looked to the future, because today I have read that Mr. Lahovnik, the senior advisor of the government, said of all these economic measures: "But it is time to start thinking about the exit strategy." Run, good morning! I'd say the government has something ready. But after the experience of you sleeping and preparing nothing over the summer and then, of course, in the PKPs, you do not distinguish activities, but you all fall into the same basket, we will obviously also look at the same story in the exit strategy without distinguishing individual specifics. As you know, I also read in the Journal that the recovery of tourism will last at least until 2024. The tourism organisation itself says that industries within tourism are affected differently. Of course, the inn is not the same as the hotel chain. A brewery that produced huge quantities, a micro-beerware that had spent many years trying to set up its activity, and today it is pouring down the road or pouring that hard - grown beer on the road, but it is not the same as a florist. The event activity, the meeting industry is not the same as cosmetics. Each activity has its own specifics, each activity has been affected differently and each activity requires this government to prepare an analysis of how to help it. If you have missed assistance in the form of these PKP packages, I wish or appeal to you to adopt a different logic in the exit strategy, because these people deserve this, that when they are allowed to work, when they are allowed to work and re-engineer their activities, they will have appropriate start-up capital to even pick up normally on their feet. I think that this is the duty that the government should prepare and coordinate today, as quickly as possible, the fastest and best possible achievement of the individual who has been banned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. Get ready, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the debate is gruesome and is, of course, excruciating because we Members are once again facing a new inflation of legislative measures. This time, we are taking and considering the eighth set of measures, which indicates, above all, that measures are being taken quickly, recklessly, that they are ineffective and that people who need to implement them are difficult to implement. The inflation of legislation is never good. The law must always be such that it follows its purpose and that the one who must carry it out can carry it out. That means he needs to know him. And that's obviously not how it works. We were also reminded of this by the court, which ordered the government to weigh the proportionality of the measures. And when we look at what these measures are - the measures are such that 300,000 people have had to ask for one type of assistance so that jobs can be maintained. And that's because they were banned by the state by decree. So the government has not saved 300,000 jobs, and the government has threatened them by adopting hand-rail measures, by taking measures that were not in force in Austria that were not in force in Italy that were not in force in Croatia. And they have a better epidemiological picture all over the neighborhood. Once again, the government threatened 300,000 jobs, did not save them, did not preserve them. Moreover, she forbade them to work, to carry out their basic activities, causing great damage to our craftsmen. And this isn't the next generation, it's the next generation. The government boasted several times – to her, we issued a 60-year bond, and that was a success. If someone gave us a five-year bond, we wouldn't be able to pay it back. Does anyone imagine that an unborn child, or now a born child, will be paying off credits created by this generation for 60 years?Oh, my God! Almost retired. This is only because the measures have been taken quickly and recklessly. We have taken serious restrictive measures since October of last year, the neighbouring Austrians since December. What was the damage at that time? What was the damage at that time? Three hundred thousand jobs at risk. Where is the evaluation of the measures? And it's not just an intergenerational conflict that's created, it's a multigenerational conflict. The generations that are born today, which you like to say in pictures, will pay off this debt for 60 years. They won't even be able to retire because age will be raised to 70. And when we talk about exit strategies, dynamics, targeted measures, what measures are being taken when we look at labour costs? In one engineering office, if you want it to work, there is an unwritten rule 1:3, so you have to earn three times as much as you pay for the salary so that you can cover all the costs. And if the state gives you 700 euros or a thousand euros gross for a minimum wage, who will cover 2,000 euros of revenue out of revenue so you can pay space to pay for software, so you can pay for development, so you can pay for energy? And that's what we're talking about. Therefore, these measures must be considered and targeted. And if we know that they were vulnerable in the first stage, especially the elderly, and the government was doing studies in which they got sick in nursing homes and hospitals, which spread to the whole population, so that we were more contagious; sorry, that's not the right approach. This is reckless, hand-to-hand action. But if we look ahead, we as a society need to take certain measures so that we can get back to normal as soon as possible. We're also talking about opening schools, we're also talking about how the elderly can go to the store as safely as possible, to the post office, to the doctor. And that is why we have made an amendment to the SAB Group in order to provide the pensioners with three free special masks with this highest standard of FFP2 per month. At the same time, we are very opposed, so we are talking about Article 26, that social contributions are paid to workers less than the minimum wage, if necessary. And I hope our amendments are accepted because they're good. If we are to protect the weakest of the consequences of the epidemic, then we must protect them; and we must protect workers too. And workers are not protected in such a way that they are paid lower social security contributions than is prescribed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the next word. And get ready, Mrs. Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Vice President. This debate, when I hear about what was not enough about the PKP8, was more than some measures, about the epidemic in general, about reading articles from the Dnevnik and other media that somehow sum up the work of our opposition in Parliament. I must say that I would like to start by commending the work of the government, commending the work of the Minister, commending the work of State secretaries and also commending the work of the parties that have participated constructively, nationally, in the design and adoption of the anti-Korona packages so far. And I would particularly like to thank all the parties that participated – Desus, Novi Slovenije, SMC, our party – the Slovenian Democratic Party and also the Slovenian National Party in the opposition. We have prepared good measures, measures to be taken, measures to help people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy. One criticism, one threat, one teasing, which I hear from the opposition or some KUL coalition, which has been formed since the beginning of the epidemic last year, and it has not been able to do so, I think it is irresponsible and does not bring any good. You had the opportunity to rule, you had the government, and you decided not to rule, because you did not feel capable, and you were afraid to accept such a heavy responsibility. You were well aware of this and decided that you would no longer rule, but at the same time you argued in between. And now we're listening to this nonsense, nebulosis. In doing so, I should like to thank and commend the Chairman of the Labour Committee, who actually carried out this meeting last night in the face of all the attacks she has experienced during this long, painful session, from the various Members, in particular the member of the Party of Levi, who has indeed behaved in a balinian manner and after all that we have listened to and watched, is not worthy of being called a Member. And indeed all congratulations to Evi Irgl on taking this away, and also to all those who are members of this committee, that you have supported all these articles of the PKP8 and also most of all the amendments prepared. We have heard countless times how much money has been earmarked for something, for people and for the economy, how many millions and how much more so will be needed. You talk like you don't realize that we're in an epidemic, that people are dying for us, that people are getting sick, and that completely all the measures are directed just in this direction to keep the health system going. And absolutely nothing else. If there were not so many sick people, if there were not so many dead, because we know that they are dead also because your government or your previous governments did not provide homes for the elderly, that homes are unfit for the elderly to stay, that they are unfit to be divided into zones — safe zones and dangerous zones, red, gray, I don’t know what they are. In such houses, old castles, abandoned houses, castles that you once plundered throughout the country and then dedicated them to older citizens. Shame. Catastrophe. Now you're telling me what these homes are like. And what have you done so far? Nothing. Nothing at all. This government has dealt with the epidemic, with all the necessary measures, which are painful enough, and we are all aware of this, completely everyone. I am also aware that it is not easy that restrictions are such and different, that measures must be followed, that we are social beings, that schools are closed. Look at what's going on with schools today, how many infections there are in schools, and how many schools are closing down again. You must have looked at the latest data. You saw how many infected teachers were on the test. You can imagine that all of these would be infected further between children, children at home to parents, old parents; then you can point your finger at the government, that there are so many and so many dead. I don't know why you need to talk like that or why you're not constructive. You know we're on top of unemployment in Europe. Unemployment has not risen for us, and because of the government's actions, I believe we are aware of that. Your debt is full of mouth, we owe you a negative interest rate; we will not now talk about how you owed yourself once, how Alenka Bratusek owed herself, what interest rates and where that money went, bank holes and so on. I'm not going to talk about it now because it's not the topic of today's session. We know that they acquired with the 8th anti-korona package disabled persons, workers, those who did not receive 200 euros of assistance in December, you have heard that, but you do not say anything like that, that it is okay, that this is positive, that it is good. You don't say anything like it's nothing. You didn't say anything in the opposition that you think it's okay, that 18-year-old students also got help that aren't yet in college, because students got help and students who are studying abroad. I've also had a lot of calls, like probably everyone else, for both students and students, for bus carriers and for everyone else, that maybe there's something else that doesn't happen. But people, I can tell you, are aware that the State's aid was right, and they are also aware that the country has not forgotten it. And it was everyone who received help — with the sheep and all the other measures. And you don't just have to criticize, tease and annoy people. Then the media summarizes these statements and looks at the general situation, and then, if possible, they get even more bloated – and in the end we even have confusion in the country. And you whistle at the deaths of people, at the hospitals that are in the respiratory system, at the health workers who work, you just like to say – the first fighting species; that's all. But you don't realize that if we don't contain the epidemic, we're going to have hospitals full and we're going to have more dead because we're a very old society, a fast-growing society, and you're probably aware of that. We've saved 300,000 jobs; ah, it's like nothing's happened. The unemployed received supplements, war veterans, health supplements, universal basic income, institutional protection, special attention, waiting for work, 32,000 economic operators received assistance. Give this to the opposition a few more times, so that it is not just us who speak; and the economy is aware of this. An economy that employs people and fills the state budget. And you call it a variety of capitalists, bourgeoisists, and I don't know what you find in those books from Marx and Engels to make them all growl. And all the time, the critics themselves. Capitalists serve fatly and brutally, and they need to be thrown into the sea with bayonets, and I don't know what. Catastrophe. And then you would rule, form a government and rule. How, please, in this way?Oh, my God! And from criminal societies and so on. For you, criminal companies are companies that have provided us with the most expensive rapid antigen tests, and this is a criminal association. The life support and everything else when millions and billions went to the bank hole, and that's not criminal associations for you. You have attacked a full religious community – all of them in Slovenia. An attack on religious communities, do you realize anything that's possible? You can't believe what's going on. It's a clienteleist marriage, and I don't know what it is. A law that takes care of vulnerable, retired, students, unemployed, workers, so that companies can stay, that's a customeristic law for you? Please. You say - turn out what it's like out there. Very similar measures. And each country probably has different specific characteristics. However, I am 100% convinced that they have very similar measures; and some countries have much stricter, much more stringent measures – than banning 50 meters from housing, a unique exit. But they don't have such a crazy opposition. Absolutely not, but I am 100% convinced that nothing is completely constructive. Rare exceptions, rare cases of opposition Members or Members having a constructive debate or helping the government and all of us working together to get through this worst crisis. And I must say again that I am pleased that today this eighth anti-Korona package will also be adopted to help people in time. I believe that the next package is already being prepared, so that it will probably include a lot more or something that may have even been forgotten by now, but perhaps in a reduced form, some aid has been implemented by these laws. I would really like you to be more constructive, to somehow help all of us together, to get out of this, to end this epidemic, and to bring a normal life all together. Nobody's easy, and we're all aware of that. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Eva Irgle. But get ready, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! Since yesterday, on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons I am chairing, the debate on this eighth anti-Korona package lasted almost three o'clock in the morning, I will not be long. Even since I had already had a presentation of the Group's position on this item on the agenda. I will not go into the way some opposition Members have done everything to prevent the package from being adopted in time. For we must be aware that we are handcuffed for payment, and if we did not carry out these procedures yesterday at the right time and would not be able to prepare this today for the meeting of the National Assembly, then, respected citizens and citizens, this assistance would not reach you. And I must say that this is a matter of intentional damage — and this is unacceptable for the MPs of the National Assembly. I will not go into what has happened hereafter, this is not the subject of this meeting of the National Assembly; but those who have accompanied this meeting will be able to assess and assess who is acting and acting and who is working for the good of you – citizens and citizens. I prefer to focus at this time on the so-called eighth anti-korona package, which is intended, as we have said many times, to cushion the consequences covid-19 has on the various segments of this society. Today we are in a situation, not just us, the whole world, Europe, Slovenia, we are in a situation that is unpredictable, which arises from day to day, every time we have to reconsider certain measures, every time we have to reconsider what is still proportionate and will be best for citizens and citizens. We are in a situation that requires responsible decisions from us on one side, but also swift decisions. And if quick decisions are taking place, of course, it can also happen that in a package some category is dwindling, but then this is replaced in a new, next package. First, about social dialogue. Members of the opposition have been here all the time saying that there is no social dialogue, how the Economic and Social Council does not work, how they can't agree, how they can't make a deal, how they can't make a deal, how they can't do anything. But I think it's a lot of politicization. If anyone does, then this government cares about social dialogue. If anyone does, then this government cares about social dialogue. So far, we have carried out seven anti-Korona packages. A high degree of consensus with the social partners has been achieved several times. Let the Minister correct me, if that is not the case, a high level of consensus with the social partners on solutions for action. This dialogue has undoubtedly taken place and I think it has taken place at a high level. But it's true that you can't always meet everyone, and that's a fact. And the responsible government, the responsible executive branch of power, is one that has to consider what is sustainable at some point and what is not, what is absolutely necessary and what is less necessary. These are the things the responsible government does. But I believe the opposition has no such concerns because it has no responsibility. And he has no responsibility when we talk about what is going on in such a difficult situation, he has no responsibility. But you have a responsibility to help and not to bring down everything you get from this government. And that you are acting harmfully against citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but you do not have that. We should be responsible in this part. You have also been elected to this Parliament, not to harm, but to act responsibly. I have no objection to the opposition saying its views that it is problematic to make proposals, that it may have other solutions. I have nothing against it, that's important. We've been in the opposition for most of the time, and we know how it works, and we know that the executive branch of power needs to be seen under the fingers, that's what I understand. And we are also in a Parliament where it is allowed to debate where it is advisable to discuss how to exchange views as much as possible; however, in some reasoned way, especially culturally, culturally, culturally and respectfully. Unfortunately, this is very rare from some opposition Members. We've already distributed a lot of help in seven anti-Korona packages. Practically all categories were taken into account. Those categories that have not been covered so far are now covered in the PKP8, especially when we are talking about the so-called solidarity supplement that some other categories of students, students, veterans and disabled people receive at this time. It seems particularly important to me that this 150-euro solidarity allowance, brought by the eighth anti-Korona package, has been allocated to disabled people and war veterans. I am very closely following these contents. I recently met with the President of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, Mr Sever, and we went quite thoroughly through content that is crucial to the disabled. And among them it was also necessary to establish a system that would increase those lowest pensions to at least the level of social assistance, which we have already proposed several times in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I believe, Mr Minister, that we will do everything in this direction to make this happen in the future, and now it is important that we give this solidarity allowance of 150 euros. Of course, I'm not going to quit here, and I think you're going to walk me through that other part, too. I don't think there should be any major problems with that. Of course, we did other things back then, but this means that social dialogue is taking place at different levels. The government is not the only one engaged in social dialogue. Social dialogue is not just done with trade unions. Not only is it carried out with them, it is also carried out with other individuals and they say and many say that this dialogue is very good. The government also went against the unions in this package, i.e. the eighth package, and left, and this seems very important to me, the unequal treatment of employees in payments of the 200 euro crisis allowance. This means that after applying the eighth package, all private sector workers will be entitled to the payment of the crisis allowance. It was very important that the government put an end to this inequality. Very important. This has been pointed out by private sector workers, and this has also changed. And this is where the government went to see the unions. I would therefore like to ask when we are talking about social dialogue, so that we can first look at what is really going on and then we can talk. It seems important to me that we have not only helped during this period, that the economy has somehow stabilised during this period of difficult situation, that it has helped tourism, that it has helped different stakeholders; but it is important that the aid, due to the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, has reached people in a timely, rapid and, in particular, direct manner. And that's what people say and are grateful for. Everything else is propaganda. But you master the propaganda, and I will not say from which year on, because you know how to answer it yourself, you have always mastered the propaganda and it is today. You have the majority media underneath you, you know how to do something; and, of course, you can do propaganda further. As I observe, in this National Assembly many Members – but not only come from the left option, there will be no mistake, they are also on the right – are looking for a lot of attention with excesses and so on, perhaps every so long, because it somehow brings a ticket to these majority media. If you're doing good, professional, responsible, substantive work today, you're completely ignored in the media room. But if you're doing excesses that don't do any good for anyone, nothing good for anyone, then of course, you're all over the media and beauty is happening like it is; or if you have some other connection. I would like to begin in this political space in the National Assembly with a more constructive debate on all the content that comes into this National Assembly. I also do not understand this very hateful energy, which is being carried out in these premises at various meetings of the committees. Why is that necessary? Why? Aren't we here to do good things? Why is that necessary? I really don't get it, I have to say. I apologize, and I also come from yesterday's event, as well as from a few months ago. I've been a Member for a long time, but I've never had this kind of communication before. However, we had very controversial discussions with Members, which is perfectly normal, but regardless of which side of the debate someone was coming from, these discussions were respectful to each other. We're gonna have to take another step here. This package, which we have before us today, brings additional measures, in particular, to preserve jobs and help the economy. I've said before that some categories will receive a solidarity allowance. It is also important that the unemployed, who lost their jobs after 12 March 2020 and are still unemployed, also receive 150 euros. This is a type of assistance that, given the state of our situation, is urgently needed. The fact is, if not for all these packages, we would not be able to maintain some 300,000 jobs. You know that the labour market is now facing extraordinary trials, and the government is doing everything in this direction to at least a little bit or enough mitigate the consequences of this covida-19 epidemic. If we look at unemployment, we see that it hasn't grown in months. And that's good information. This is good information and shows that some things can be improved. The analysis also shows that the recovery of the economy will only be achieved in the second half of 2021, but of course this is understandable, since virtually the whole world is in this epidemic. It is also important what some experts have said that Slovenia retains its reputation in financial markets and that this is essential because it can therefore be cheaper or cheaper in debt. These are the arguments that are important for us to see, for the first time, what is the broader picture of these measures, and also to see what the effects of these measures, when implemented, on different categories, and especially on the economy and entrepreneurship. I will only say that in one of the packages, and this seems important to me, we have provided an additional €31 million for institutional protection. Why was that important? Especially because the most vulnerable groups due to covid-19 are quite the elderly. And here, of course, we have invested resources and other efforts to make things as human as possible, which is important because it is a very difficult health situation; and the losses are great, certainly. I would just say that I am glad that yesterday, despite all the unacceptable actions – I will not say what I think about these actions – we accepted this eighth package on the committee. And I hope that today, too, it will be accepted by all parliamentary groups, because it would be good and good for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and especially for the economy and the labour market. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs Irgle, for your debate and for helping calm energy in this Chamber. And if I continue in your spirit a little while longer, you're lucky I'm in charge of the session while you're discussing it. Your fellow Member would most likely warn you several times. A joke on the side. We're moving on. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, do you have a replica? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u165	I've discussed this before. Thank you for your warning. What we've been listening to is pure deception, colleague Irgle. I can speak so calmly, and I can drip on people's brains and tell them what's wrong with you, and I do it out of love, out of pure love. Please, what you have just said is that we have been discussing in an uncultured manner, Mrs Irgl, on your committee, we have proposed good solutions for citizens, for those most vulnerable who have been smooth hit by you as you led the committee. I don't allow you to tell me how you and I in the opposition didn't let you help people. No, no, no. We also want to help people, not just the chosen ones, those who already have no need to help them. Are you saying why all this enemy energy is needed? Look at your president, Mrs Irgle, who sows hatred, who matches the media prostitutes of a journalist who doesn't like it; who matches international politics. And you're saying we've kept credibility in the financial markets. However, we no longer have credibility anywhere, for John Janša’s rule over us, and especially him personally, is causing reproach all over the world, for this aid was also conditioned by the rule of law. And only Poland and Hungary were against and regretting Slovenia. Slovenia, which haunts the culturers, the media, everyone who is not owned by Janez Janša. Why, a well-respected coalition, should deal so badly with everyone in the system — those who are not with us — is against us. Why citizens and citizens should be intimidated and wrote high penalties, beaten and not allowed to express their legitimate opposition to this government, constitutionally assured opposition. I'm sorry, but this is such a ruse. And unacceptable behavior is not on the opposition's side. The opposition asks and warns you to become a little more human and come from your pedestal. And Janez Janša is really not taking us somewhere where the sun will shine for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The word was now wanted by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me say that I share your opinion on the previous implementation of Mrs Irgle. I would also like to contribute to a calm, constructive, reasoned debate. I now have up-to-date data on the enforcement of labour market measures here, because there has been some debate also after my intervention on the labour market and on assistance to preserve jobs. Someone put it in my mouth to save and so on. I'm talking about helping to keep jobs. We're still at the time of the epidemic and we can't make conclusions yet. And I really think, we can also look at the magnetogram later to talk strictly about helping to maintain jobs, but of course, the team, all together, the whole government team is grateful to the employers for their cooperation and also to the employees that we are all going through this time constructively together, together with all the stakeholders. Data from April 2020 to the end of January 2021, waiting at home has claimed more than 31 000 business entities for about 260 000 people. If this is not assistance for employees to maintain their jobs, if this is not assistance for companies to maintain their jobs. To date, €394 million has been paid for this measure. Short working hours, this measure has benefited more than 7,000 600 employers for more than 40,000 people. Already €33 million has been paid. By the end of January 2021, a total of around EUR 433 million had been paid for all intervention measures — waiting, working hours, quarantine, force majeure, temporary cash compensation. Someone said earlier in the debate that this is a threat to jobs. Somewhere conceptually, we do not meet in this debate, in this debate. I think they are very specific numbers; and also the response of the economy, the response of employers as well as the response of employees is positive for this assistance and the assistance is very concrete. And this government has really targeted these measures in the way they go to people; not just to some, but to some, what I know, banks, banks, some networks, capital connections and so on, as perhaps in the past; but to people. In addition to these measures for the labour market, we have other measures to help the economy maintain jobs. I am grateful that someone mentioned in the debate earlier that there is indeed a large majority of micro and small enterprises. Self-employment and jobs, including self-employed people, are very valuable, and we keep the monthly basic income measure. By 8 January, 117.3m euros had been paid in the second wave of the epidemic. Employees and self-employed for quarantine, force majeure – a million and a half euros. And for a measure that is unjustly critical, it has begun to pay off well this month, and I think it is not such a small number, for the partial coverage of fixed costs we have already paid 133, almost 134 million euros. If this is not concrete assistance to preserve jobs and if this is not an investment in the future, in time after the crown, then I really don't know what to call it. In addition, a number of measures continue to ensure liquidity for the economy. Remember, tourist vouchers are extended until the end of 2021. Payments have already been made here for EUR 128.3 million. Other measures include the deferral of loans from commercial banks, public funds and loans to firms in difficulty, the postponement or reverse of taxes, liquidity loans from the Enterprise Fund, the Regional Development Fund up to €50,000 for smaller enterprises and co-directions from the Ministry of Economy, which are outside the CAP, but are still intended to assist the economy. These are financial instruments and various public calls: SID banks, microcredits, enterprise fund guarantees, COVID-19 publicly invited SPIRIT and COVID-19 public tender RRI SPIRIT. I myself, with the team of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, take this as facts that show the favour of this government to help where it is necessary and as much as necessary. We also hear warnings from those who have also been exposed in the debate to caution against overturning the economy into cotton, which could be a problem then in the exit strategy and in the relaunch. We always take these measures by weighing and also by some agreement with the strong arguments of the members of the Advisory Group. And of course we take responsibility for this when we accept it in the government and here in Parliament. A little later, I hope that the State Secretary from the Ministry of Health will join because she can best justify it. Some serious blood was previously exposed to debates about the closure of the economy by decree and why we closed it down and doing much injustice. I am not alone with the Ministry of Health or medical education, but this government has not closed down the global economy, the global industry. We have not decided on this and it is good that we are not, because the situation in the labour market now shows that the situation is good for business. Someone mentioned earlier, pointing out that due to the specificity of the Slovenian economy, it is very important, if possible, that the industry operates. Because if he loses a subscriber in this global world, it will be very difficult to get him back because he will be quickly replaced by someone from another part of the world. Those activities, which we have closed by government decree or are still closed — and it is not easy for them, we know — and above all, the service activities which are closed by government decree, of course, there is a health justification for this. I'm saying this so that I don't get any impression in the air that we just sit down, decide and say this and that and we'll shut it down. On the contrary: what can we have open, that people do to have jobs. That is what a healthy person wants to do — to be able to do, to do his job. And that brings our lives forward and that is also a guarantee that after this epidemic we will be able to achieve rapid reflection and new growth. And I'm actually grateful that someone then calls me an optimist. I am, and it's not the first test we've encountered, and it won't be the last. But everyone fortifies us, we should also connect us, and I hope that there is one critical mass of people, I feel it, and I know it, and I know it, who can see an opportunity in connecting and pulling forward. And now it's time to get ready for the crown. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next one has the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. And then, as the last in this round, Mr. Jura Ferrjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Unfortunately, I don't know how to whisper as well as Violet because I'm a dilettante in this area. I think that's even the name of some of the first amateur theater society in Celje. We used to be the ones who weren't professionals. Unfortunately, this government works dilettrately in too many areas. I've got to get some hair on these previous interviews. First, the President of the National Assembly and the Vice-President of the National Assembly gave us a sermon about what we can and can't discuss, then both SDS discussers violated this shit and read us some morals here. I also agree with my colleague Irgle, and I am also asking the same questions that, as the younger one might say, we have been completely deluded and that this is just another bean altogether. But you know, you need people who are ready for this dialogue first, and we have seen the dialogue that the Vice-President of the National Assembly has prepared for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. And then my colleague Irgle sat here and watched and kept quiet. If I had reacted then, I would have taken her seriously. If I had responded when my neighbor who is sitting here now, Kaloh lied that I had left the children because I had just separated, but I didn't leave them; and maybe there was someone else there who was hetting on your side, I would have taken her seriously. If I had reacted at the time when I wasn't a politician, when you threw me forward, that I had a restraining order against my ex-wife, because I beat her twice, which is a dirty lie, I would have taken her. You've been lurking in this forest - impatience, ladies and gentlemen, and now we're all almost all of us. And somehow after what the Vice-President of the National Assembly is doing here, which is being carried out by the President of the Government and by someone else, I'm afraid they're going to be hunting us down here soon after Parliament like on that hill in Washington. And then they won't be looking at whether Eva Irgle is Violet, whether she's Kordish, or me, or whether she's a young alternate Member - then we'll all be fascaling. And when did America begin to chew them up my mother's ass? When everyone there was running from the stray extreme radicals that no one had control of. That's a long introduction. What's the problem, Mr. Secretary? The problem is not only in this government, but the problem is that in government and politics and generally, there are not enough quality socialists, too few analytical thinkers who can think about society and its development. We're a country that doesn't have one serious economic week, let alone a diary, let alone an institute. And then we wonder where we are. And maybe if we had that law on political foundations, at least every serious party - as many social democrats as you Christian Democrats are serious, and I, as a Christian Democrat in Social Democrats - would have at least two, three, as I say, pubes or a young lady who would take it seriously. What the government says, the minister mentioned the terrain, what the terrain tells me. And even if I had half the people lying to me who call me desperate, but not me, it's too much of a stretch. It's a dilation of almost two different universes. When I was with my colleague Jeraj near Pirkovic on the third programme, she bragged about it - Oh, look, only two PKPs were accepted in Italy, and we are seven, and now it will be the eighth and so on. Then my colleague Irgle said you couldn't meet everyone. This is the wrong approach. Let's say that, on the basis of similar measures, all governments across Europe are working, there is no exception here, and probably the government, if Miha Kordiš led it, would not be an exception if I were its vice-president. But this government is pretty unhappy and it's too late to go to some sort of virtual levelling machine, because it often forgets purely basic things like what Comrade Shisko used to say. Yeah, someone's in high school, and they're 19 years old. Someone may have dropped a class of 20 years old. Someone went to high school a little later, but maybe he's old and I don't know how old. If I can explain it to you in any way. And, of course, we should seriously ask ourselves, who else should be positively discriminated against. I have nothing against religious servants but priests, but I think we probably need some other positive discrimination in this PKP8. A colleague of Jerca's was talking about young people. When I come home after this conversation at the National Assembly, my first attack is that no customer is seriously involved with young people. I'm afraid that's true. Let's pay 50 Euros. Today I went to make a night's reservation because I know it will be a long time, but I gave a little tip to one student, so specifically as long as I have, I can give it; but it almost fell together. She said -- I haven't had that much in a while. Not to brag about it because we're not dealing with it. Perhaps even because most politicians with their incomes can take care of their children, they do not see that the world is different. That's enough if you look at what Janša says – because my two pubes are great, they're excited at home at the school at Zoom. Most children do not have the quality of life that Janez Janš’s children have, I'm sorry. And if anyone does, the President of the Government should be aware of that. I'd like to have a serious discussion, too, but you're making it impossible for us, Comrade Bricker. The National Recovery and Recovery Plan is a document that is closed. There is a document that we cannot discuss seriously, and we should also see why we have problems with it. Because in this policy, there is something on all sides that I call "profoxary perplexity of opinion," because it's forgotten to think about society, because it's only partial to whom someone will be suitable. We're gonna have a serious problem with this. And that, I don't know, a billion 600, in the end, we're going to negotiate something to concrete it. As several colleagues have already said, we now owe our children, we owe our grandchildren and we owe our grandchildren and grandchildren. It's probably not me, not Janša, not Mark Turk, not what he is, but what he's called cute, not 60 years from now, but it doesn't mean we can't be serious about this. Comparative data show us that I did not invent this; serious institutes have done this to give comparatively twice as much money for smaller effects than certain countries of the European Union. For almost a year we spend, we see that the infections in the economy are one of the main sources of infection to do what the Austrians, the Germans, and the Croats have done a long time ago. And a method of quarantine decisions and a hundred percent refund. Someone in my family is at home right now because someone else has been infected, not from my narrow bladder, and even in the morning, they had to handle some things on their cell phone so that, in their own words, the company got rid of him on the back of the country, even though this company was doing very well in 2019, it had more profits than some Slovenian city municipality. We didn't look at who to subsidize and who not in this book either. We had a record profit in 2019. I would see in these PKPs, either separately, a law that would pave the way for future economic development and technological development. You know when Charcoe started spinning on the political wheel. When he put out that opportunity to transfer these profits into his private wallet would be slightly more taxed. Still a lot lower than America, and in Austria somewhere else. Again in this PKP, we have some sort of new misdemeanour. Christian mother, don't you understand after a year that you're going to be smooching people, we're not going to get out of this epidemic. I'm sorry, but we're not all masochists; if possible, I don't know, you're in SDS, that's what you guys are telling us, you're always in some kind of fear of who will run, who won't. It's going to bring the folk down, plain and simple. Well, that's justifiable, not that I'm inviting them to do that. In fact, in some congregations that are actually called yours after the composition of the congregational councils, parents protest horribly before schools, they should somehow be heard and, in fact, you do not hear them. And now you're going to be pushing again to punish someone. Please, isn't that enough after a year?Oh, my God! Every psychologist, social psychologist, psychologist with years of experience, that long-standing mountain rescuer from the Bohinj region, have also told you nicely – eat with this, stop it. You know he's not going anywhere. No, but boom. In fact, the structure of the Slovenian economy will not be very great for us now. And that's what you should be thinking about. Franček Drenovac is a man who has been writing about this quite lonely for 20 years. Perhaps we should also ask ourselves how we can have a basic salary lower than the minimum wage. I'm sorry, but this is a crime for me. It's unconstitutional for me. And in some organizations that are unionally and otherwise relatively well-respected, even if I go to watch those basic salaries on the Eizenpon, how many classes they have, there are two-thirds below the minimum wage. It's also time to think about it, because I've been lonely here for eight calendar years, that some economic activity that can't generate a thousand 400 gross per employee is something we can't do in Slovenia, because we can't offer a minimum of human dignity to an employee. Now that he's working, he's working. This is an issue that I would like to speak to constructively with the Minister, the Secretary of State or any of the 89 present here. “Difficult times require responsible policies.” It's a quote from Tatiana Royce, a senator at the Italian Senate, Slovenia. And I don't see some responsibility, and I'm not gonna say that everything is on the opposition side. But will our borrowers repay these loans with some political economy of minimum wages under minimum wage?Oh, my God! Or question: When will these PKPs stop? This one's still modest. This pattern is essentially only after a few laws of the old PKPs, where you forgot something. Or anyone else who's ever done anything we've done. I'm guessing you're a law-enforcement colleague. And Grimes was barking yesterday or the day before yesterday, so one of them would have to be out of the closet, because she didn't write like he would have wanted. Such a Member should take a passive electoral right; not a lady from the Legislative and Legal Service, who are very fine ladies, even if I sometimes disagree with them. In fact, all Members and Members of Parliament should be proud to have such a good legislative and legal service. I would like to have such a strong research and development department in the National Assembly, then everyone would show something here; but I won't say that they don't do okay either. That I won't be too long with all the amendments that somehow try to reinvest in the opposition. Social Democrats in all of our amendments are working with workers and employment. Because, however we turn, the structure of the Slovenian economy is what it is. We must be aware that it is in fact the workers who are the ones who will create future prosperity for all. And somehow that's where all of our amendments are going to be defined by our colleagues. And so, before you set the mirror to another, you set it up for yourself. Believe me, you're not in this position right now so you can read us morals. I don't read them to you because it's not my shit, I'd go as a moral theologian if I wanted to do it, with all due respect for them. I don't see that there is any interest here in finding solutions together. We have this misfortune that we have some Prime Minister of the 21st century who thinks that we will – let's not talk about pure wine – I will use another phase – to pull the wagon out of the goods with a single mind. On farmers, if a wagon stopped in the mud, more people went around and we considered a few suggestions, and we probably found some compromise, including someone who masters physics; and then we pulled the wagon. This wisdom this government and John Janša do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u170	Thank you very much. As the last in this round, Mr Jure Ferrjan has been announced for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u171	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members, and all those who have been following us, even though it is evening, are still admiring. The anti-Korona package number 8, i.e. the eighth anti-Korona package has basically two fundamental objectives: to maintain stability in the labour market, that is to say, to maintain jobs; and secondly, to mitigate the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. This also follows the dissemination of beneficiaries who will receive the solidarity allowance and those who will be included in such or other forms of State aid. That the eighth anti-Korona package and the remaining seven pursues these objectives, we are also recognised by the international institutions. All those accompanying this area can clearly see by monitoring the last few ratings that Slovenia is a stable country despite the crisis that is taking place both with us and around the world. It is also an encouraging trend in unemployment, which somehow shows a light at the end of the tunnel that the situation will begin to improve. Respected and respected, many things were also said in the multi-year debate, which also indirectly did not touch this anti-Korona package, so I will continue to take a few minutes in my debate and go even more specifically through the individual measures that this aid package brings. Some may have a word or two more, while others may have just what it is. In the eighth anti-korona package, it is essentially a matter of upgrading and extending some of the measures already presented in past and already adopted anti-korona packages, such as compensation for occasional transport operators and compensation for urban transport operators. I also think it's a great upgrade not to take into account the allowance for students and students who work with casual patients, according to this additional 30% hourly item, as a basis for income. That's definitely stimulating. Then certainly also solidarity allowance for beneficiaries of disability benefits, compensation for short-term absence from work, here is specifically a three-day hospital, which is extended until the end of 2021. The measure, which is also worth more, is estimated at around EUR 17 million for the first half of 2021, given that the minimum wage of EUR 50 has risen slightly this year. This measure is then further upgraded by a follow-up measure for the second half of this year, which also helps employers to somehow replace this raise for a somewhat easier transition. It seems important to me that some groups have also been extended to receive solidarity allowances. This is also the case for students who are over 18 years of age and have not yet received assistance, and will now be number 8 with the anti-Korona package. And of course it was not forgotten about Slovenian students, i.e. students with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, who are studying, who are educated abroad. A single solidarity allowance will also be given to unemployed persons. As one of the key measures, it is also certain that some of the compensation is paid to workers on temporary wait for work, which is thus prolonged. This is about EUR 200 million, as difficult as this concrete measure is within the CAP package8. It is also important to guarantee SID to the Bank for the first loss of a financial engineering loan fund in the field of tourism and hospitality. This measure is estimated at around €70 million, as evidenced by the fact that the government is, of course, listening to those sectors most affected by the crisis. In this too, this crisis differs significantly from those of the past, which were different, and this is sectoral and some areas, some sectors have suffered significantly more than others. In my debate, I have decided to comment on something that has been said in past debates in this third round, if I am not mistaken, debates. A fellow Member, Mr Reich, said that 300,000 people had to ask for help. So 300,000 jobs were then, we can conclude, threatened. And colleague Reich continued that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was guilty of having to ask these 300,000 people for help. I would now like to ask myself here if the government would not offer a hand to the Slovenian population and the economy and allow this assistance, to whom these 300,000 people could apply for assistance. The solar system?Oh, my God! No one. These people would lose their jobs, and so many more unemployed today. Thus, these 300,000 jobs remain, are maintained and thus preserves the potential of the Slovenian economy for a phase when we are able to make time for an exit strategy from the epidemic or from the so-called coronary crisis. And the answer to that thesis is simple. It is not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's fault that 300,000 people had to ask for help. It's the virus. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has helped and enabled 300,000 people or, as has been said, 32,000 business entities. 32 thousand business entities. This is what also keeps the Slovenian economy awake, small and medium-sized enterprises holding the Slovenian economy up. Of course, larger companies are also important, but small and medium-sized enterprises represent the core of the Slovenian economy. The purpose of my debate is not to point to who is to blame for the spread of the virus. However, if we have to, it is the fault of those who do not comply with the measures, those who do not follow the basic recommendations, which are very simple, and those basic recommendations on correct and consistent wearing of the mask, maintaining social distance to avoid unnecessary contacts, can make a huge contribution to infecting the virus. I am convinced that we are able, capable and that, after all, most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia hold on to this. But it is true that when we get so far away that even children, their children, are exploited for political purposes, we can ask ourselves what the situation is like today. Because my personal opinion is that people are very flexible beings and that it is that children are educated from home or that the school is carried out remotely, in most cases the problem of parents and not children. I understand the hardships of many. Of course, the difference is whether the situation in the family is settled or whether it is such or otherwise, it may not be the subject of today’s debate. The anti-Korona package number 8 also touches the aid and this is also one of the directly linked themes to the epidemic. And I ask myself in this place, and then I go on concretely with the subject of what you think doctors, medical personnel, those who participate in the first battle lines with the battle covid-19, I'll put it that way. When they see the protests of children, their parents, that the children are sad because they can't go to school, and they spend all day and all night taking care of covido-19 patients who have such and different consequences, which also die; and they fight the battle. Such actions then spread the virus and, of course, exacerbate the epidemiological picture in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in this fight together. And only if we work together will we win, and I'm sure, despite everything we've been following in the last few weeks, we're still capable of it. And at this point, and then I go on, let me also sincerely thank all those who respect the measures, and all those who are doing so or otherwise to overcome the covida-19 epidemic with as few consequences as possible, and from this crisis, we come out of this battle as winners. Then let me also continue my speech in one of the previous discussions on the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia in the sense that today's debt will be paid by the next generation. Of course, our generation also pays the debt of those who have already owed themselves in the previous country and those who have committed themselves to putting money in banks at a substantially higher interest rate. Today we give money to people and give it to the Slovenian economy. At this point, I would point out three things concerning debt and the Slovenian banking system. It's the first thing I said about where the money went. Before the money went to banks, today money goes to the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian population. Secondly, the negative interest rate is something completely different from the high interest rate. And thirdly, those who spoke earlier about how this government is in debt and how our children and our grandchildren will pay this, our grandchildren; and our children, our grandchildren, our grandchildren will pay less for what you owe, because this government refinances debt at lower interest rates. What confidence must institutional investors in the Republic of Slovenia have to buy bonds with a 60-year maturity, so ask yourself. Someone is willing to invest money in the Republic of Slovenia, and in 60 years, that money will be returned; probably not him, but his descendants. So much to think about when you criticize why this government owes itself today. Dear Members, honourable Members and, of course, esteemed viewers and viewers who accompany us! However, in my concluding part of the debate, I must also touch on yesterday, or, given the length of the Committee's meeting, I can say today's meeting of the Labour Committee. I will not go to a particular debate, because this is not my intention, but it is right to say that the level of debate of an individual Member or Member speaks the most about him, but it also says a great deal about the fact that when on the one hand there is no content to oppose or that there is no content to object to, then everything is obviously allowed. With some – I will not say opposition, but I am sure that you are not all like this – those who dictate, do not dictate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or do not only dictate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; you are setting yourself up, setting up your constituents and voters, to everyone. The battle against covid-19 is our common struggle. We win together, we lose together. We'll be aware of that sooner. It'll be better. And I wish that those who demolish this government would put at least half as much energy and effort into fighting the covida-19 epidemic. Respected and respected, everyone would be better off, and it would be easier for everyone. And I'm asking you to remember the next time you talk or hear about state-of-the-artness. Remember. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will finish with this. In one of the previous discussions, Mrs Violeta Tomic, a respected colleague, said that the government shares money among the electorate. Yes, this government chose the most vulnerable, chose the disabled, chose the pensioners, and chose those who received the minimum wage. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government coalition put the Slovenian population and the Slovenian economy first. And this is followed by a EUR 350 million heavy anti-korona package number 8, which I will fully support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u173	Thank you very much. My friend Ferjan didn't understand me when he said the government cared about people. The government has forbidden people to work and take care of themselves. That is why we are taking anti-Korona measures today. And when I mentioned earlier that it threatened 300,000 jobs and not saved, we are talking about it taking measures that were significantly sharper than in the neighbourhood. Since October, we have severe restrictions and such restrictions have only been adopted in neighbouring Austria for a month in December. And this is what I'm talking about – the damage that's caused by unnecessary. As it has also been proven that the measures taken by the government have not been effective and that we have a higher number of people infected than, for example, in Bosnia, where the health system is virtually non-existent and where there are 10,000 refugees in tents. That's what we're talking about. And when you talk about solving the banking crisis, it's true, we had a headache when we had to pay off the debts of the previous governments. And even the current Prime Minister of the Government was working hard at that time to make the most of our debt. And we're paying these debts today. And you have to be aware of that. We don't go around asking countries not to sell us the vaccine. This is what the opposition was doing at the time with the current Prime Minister of the Government. That's what absurdity is all about. And when we're talking, please let's talk about the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Janez Moškrič has the word. Get Franz Breznik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! If there's anything I've learned in this time I've been among you, it's that I've learned to listen. Something because I'm forced to, something because otherwise we can't do it if we don't listen. If I come out of this and come out of hearing yesterday's committee, then I can finish some parallels without anyone complaining to me. We're here today at the eighth package. What can we find out? We can see that a similar discussion has been held in all previous packages – you have forgotten, it is not, it is not. Then we ask ourselves how these packages were made. These packages were made on the basis of expert backgrounds of the group. Groups of people who have already worked for the well-being of this country, who are familiar with the functioning of the country and the economy and who want to do good to that country. They've prepared solutions. These solutions were then closed, formed into so - called intervention law — a law that is a set of corrections, supplemented by existing laws, and some additional points. How did they react? Did you react to the opposition? You said this first in the opposition – the economy needs to be helped. That's part of the opposition talking. In the same part of the same party, another colleague said – no, there is no need to help the economy, it is necessary to help an individual, such as students, students. The third from the same party, he said – why do pensioners get money, what will happen to him and so on. So you're on your own against each other. And that's why I'm glad it's not in the coalition. The coalition follows the government's objectives, perhaps a slight deviation in some package, but in general more than 90% of the issues we all agreed on were considered. And that today at the eighth package, some still insist that the main money was, as it was said, a billion 700 went to the capitalists, went to employers who exploit workers. That's a lie, that's a very nice thing to say, and that's nothing else. How we can come from the fact that employers are exploiters and that they are just that and that. Then there would be no more workers. What's the rule of good organization? Without a good worker, there's no good employer. If we believe that, then we know how the system works. It flows so that the employer creates a job. We know that some jobs are created so that we can live at all; and these are usually taken care of by the state and other jobs to advance as a nation, as a community, as a generation. And let us be proud that in Slovenia we have employers who create jobs. Sometimes we find that we are even running out of workers for these jobs, so from other countries workers come to us. I agree with all those who have said that if the employer can't take care of the minimum wage so much and so much, whether it's a thousand 300 now, whether it's a thousand 400, or a thousand 200 euros a month, then it can't exist. But once again, the employer created a job, the worker worked out, and the worker received a net salary for this work, a respected colleague from the Left. In addition, the employer ensured that contributions were paid for it, in accordance with the legislation applicable in the Republic of Slovenia. What has happened in the past? Employers did not pay, they simply wrote; and here is a problem that was sometimes overlooked under previous governments. Then the employer is also obliged to deduct the value added tax, the so-called VAT, and if he was operating on profits, also profit. I met myself in this area when I was on the one hand and on the other, being a self-employed entrepreneur at the same time and working at the same time. It is therefore perfectly clear to him how it should be; first, after the work done, the service follows a different order from that of the employer. But first he has to pay the tax, then he has to pay the contributions, and then what's left is his. Only after everything's in reverse order. But it's the worker who gets it. And if he is good, he will be aware of his rights and duties, he will have contact either through the union or on his own; and he will see what follows this cash flow. And why did we have to introduce anti-Korona packages? Because we were rude — based on a virus that is of a global nature, not Slovenian — we had to cut. A colleague from Alenka Bratusek is not here when he says, we have forbidden, the country has banned. All countries around the world have banned certain things. All because health professionals, again from several countries, not only from Slovenia, have seen this as the only possible solution – to confuse association, general association, which is very large today. We know how we used to live in Slovenia, a lonely farm, a rural area; and there was less of this association, and there was a gathering. Employers should be respected, employees should be respected. Such insults that took place yesterday are indeed not proud of the fact that the Institute of Members is speaking against those who are concerned that we can exist as a nation at all. If we are one organised society in one territory, then it is an integral part of the fact that this society is also somehow taking care of itself. If he doesn't care about himself, he can't exist. Many times it is said: I don't know how many generations I owe. My friend Ferryan already told me how he's doing with it. The debt is as old as the money we operate on. The contributions paid by our fathers have already been for one generation before, the contributions we are paying today are for this generation, which now enjoys the rights of pension and disability insurance and so on. It was in the past — and it must be said — that there were many grave acts of authority that we had to settle. However, when something violent was taken away, it was necessary at the beginning when we created our country, when it was created, to settle it, and we are still paying today. Saying that the government cares about itself won't do that. If the government were to take care of itself, it would leave a flow of what would bring the flow. There are more deaths than there are, and every death is too much. Every death in this country is too much. And it was because of the first concern for human life before the economy that all the other measures were intended to do so. Some have already said, but it is very difficult to talk about death, I have no difficulty talking about it myself, analyses of the increase in the number of deaths in the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 have shown some over 600 people. Big number, I'd say. This is based on average deaths per year over 3%, but we could see, as well as an increase in death in our neighbouring country of Croatia. If the numbers hold – 56,000, slightly over 4 thousand increases, it amounts to 8%. It is said that mortality was, but it was not as it could have been if all these measures were not taken into account. And the population is too old to be Slovenian, and that's an undeniable fact. Let us be consistent and, somehow, this will also be demonstrated in the vote on these laws. It turns out that it's just the Left that's been up against it seven times and it's going to be up against it today. It was twice as much a rejection that members of the other coalition parties and once a part of one of the coalition parties also joined. I think that in our heart all Members are aware that it is intended to help, on the basis of all the constraints that this country has adopted on the one hand, try to balance this with the financial structure on the other. It is good that such an epidemic, or this problem, is that at least the financial, financial, and even the world are somehow stable, so we were able to afford it financially. If this virus had happened to us five years ago, in 2014, when the biggest economic crisis was in Europe, what would have happened to us then. No one's likely willing to ask. There is something else about how restless people are in these measures. Of course, any change that is taking place in our lives is stressful. And these changes in the last year have been so much so that it's perfectly normal for a person to be stressed. And here we could all approach, from every policy to every other conscious citizen, and especially journalists, so that somehow people could see an integral picture of how many people were represented in the media who received these measures – the oldest with the lowest pensions who received the solidarity allowance. Why? So that they could also buy protective equipment so that they could give the young one a euro, a grandson, a granddaughter to go instead of their grandchildren to a store or a pharmacy, this money cycle turned around. Was that sufficiently presented? Unfortunately not, because of the media image she is. However, some of those who had fallen out were presented. What happened to us? We have had the same story with each corona package, our Slovenian legislation is so difficult and so intertwined that if you wanted to arrange something in one place when legal experts read this documentation, they found that something was moving at four ends. And that was the biggest problem. But this problem did not arise with the government on March 13th last year, but at the beginning of our beloved country. And this is a wish, I think, for all those who are seriously involved in politics to get rid of this, these so-called bureaucratic ones, who are no longer bureaucratic, who are already in a system of disaster management, that if you want to do one good, you break the whole story on the other side. Unfortunately, on the Committee on Finance and, in our case, on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, they had to deal with the fact that these loving countries have so written in our legal order that they have not been in breach of existing legislation. And if you wanted to help in this area to try to harmonise that there are really no mistakes, here I welcome every effort; but when it is spoken in general, lies or atrocities, this is at a given moment, at the time of the epidemic really politically the most vile thing possible. The sun is shining, thank God, for everything and I think it's going to be more and more according to the clock, and I hope it will shine for all of us to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word. Get Miha Kordish ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would also like to present in my address today this PKP8 with various aspects, which may have been misunderstood in a number of discussions between colleagues and colleagues today, but perhaps in some cases. And even before the Slovenian public, it is also right to say a few more things, including those of some groups that may not have been heard from even the PKP1. First thing, in all these months where we are fighting the CAP, there is one fact: we have just over 2 million inhabitants, we have 2 million different situations of individuals and individuals. The Austrians have 8.9 million such situations. When you're looking for some laws when you're looking for legislation in which you can pursue goals that will work under some criteria for dealing with covidcrisis, on the other hand, to stabilize the vital parts of the country that are essential for keeping the Slovenian economy, which is small, which does not have its own internal market and is limited, which is extremely exportable; to keep those important companies, especially those medium and small, which are involved in international multinationals that are their partners, in some way, competitive. At the same time, we must not forget that we have limited resources. Until the crisis, Slovenia’s gross social product was about $26,000 per capita. Austria has a gross social product of $52,000 per capita. Within each country, it is necessary to look at its economic structure, including the standard, the state of its health system, including the condition, the willingness of state officials to the so-called political and administrative processes, where, on the one hand, the government, which has occupied the situation and has a new objective, has some new doctrine; and on the other hand, whether they will monitor it at such a speed as the government with its ministers, state secretaries, who wish to bring some laws into life. It's all a specific, respected colleagues, every country. Despite great ambitions, this government has also stumbled upon many walls. I will leave the debate about the walls today, about the opposition, about the bargaining, I will put it somehow aside, not trying to go into this sphere, but into the sphere where the structures that are clear for years, especially among officials who do not move. And there is also a big problem, I do not understand many media, especially those that are supposed to pursue the goals of Slovenia, such as public RTV; and if I look at the political activism role some media have played in times of crisis. Of course, mistakes are also taking place, and if we are reasonable, even admitting, correcting, moving on and being better. Let us be realistic, each one of us is sinning, and he can make a mistake. With such extensive laws – in fact, we could say that we have the least debate with PKP8 because of the first seven PKP laws, it is one of the smallest. You found out well some of them, when you said, were likely to copy-paste some of the solutions that had already been, but have been extended. Perhaps one of the top features here was the subsidisation of the minimum wage, where again the problem was that by the time the economy began to cool down, someone had raised the minimum wage. In addition, the government is correcting some mistakes from the past. As we can see, the health system was in a bad situation before the crisis, that the government could provide material resources but could not provide human resources to increase. But let us be realistic, many countries around us, which have a much higher GDP, have also been on the verge of the stability of health systems. And Slovenia has not run out of fan for any patient. We didn't have to decide who survived and who didn't. And this is for the system, for the crisis that we have before us, which is probably the greatest after World War II, success. The next matter that is important here is not seen in PKP8 for all those who may be watching. Some of us who have spoken less recently have been working mainly on the strategy, how and in what condition; especially the first seven laws have also had a focus on the condition of Slovenian entrepreneurship, the economy, all companies with different employees to be in good condition. Colleagues before me who spoke said a rating of Slovenia. People have great trust in Slovenia, especially with great trust. We would like to see such ratings at a time when Pojbič and I were with Pojbič 2012-2013 when the premiums on Slovenian bonds were 5%, 6%, even 7%, when we went to the US market for debt. Also, a fellow Reich, who is not currently in the hall, is not cultural, would like to say a few more things. We have recently had a Commission to oversee public finances. If anyone looked at the audit of the Bank of Slovenia and, above all, as Alenka Bratušek said it was saving Slovenia, the Slovenian financial situation and the Slovenian banks, see now one fact. Due to amateurs in Slovenian politics who then took over the government after the second government of Janez Janša, Slovenia overcapitalised banks by 1.5%, with an interest rate of about 5% on average. Do you imagine that now?Oh, my God! Overcapitalized. Nor were we able to properly evaluate the technique of stress tests, nor did we control those who managed this state-owned business secret; the different multinationals who came to do this. Stress tests were carried out by multinationals with students from Romania who were driving through Slovenia and from the car assessing some property values. On the basis of these stress tests, we overcapitalised Slovenian banks. And the incompetent policy right in the government of Alenka Bratusek, and with her at the head of it, was then negotiated so badly in Brussels that there was a commitment – czech, it was a big state aid and now you have to sell these banks immediately. So she didn't even borrow cheap money from which European institutions. And by not getting any money or borrowing money at high interest rates, we eventually pledged to sell the banks as quickly as possible. And where were we in this trouble? We sold overcapitalised banks at relatively extremely low prices. In some crises, people got nothing. Bankers weren't repaired. Today we have, in addition to all these problems, subordinated bonds, where again the Cabinet for the Minister of Finance and his State Secretaries of the then government, Alenka Bratušek, worked in a number of lobbying. I will not now, the matter will soon come to the Slovenian public. These people have now retreated; the debt has remained. And someone was saying that he was saving Slovenia. At what cost? On the other hand, he said that the credit rating I looked at the ratings diagrams when the second Janšev government fell, in March 2013, when Alenka Bratušek took over the government, the charges on Slovenian bonds increased again. [[…]] The ratings dropped and the interest was even higher. Not much, but about 0.5% for the next six months. That's the truth. And when people explain today; now we have given money to everyone, we have followed everyone, some would say why the pensioners. When a person is about 70 years of age, it may not be possible to buy the drugs that are on a white prescription in a weak pension, or it may be difficult to buy them. For example, all doctors now recommend vitamin C, vitamin D, I don't know what. This enabled them to take care of their health. I hope that's not a bad solution. The women's peasants, who have 200, 300 euros in pensions, could see that in this crisis they also get some of those euros that they never got, some of them have been forgotten by God. Is that bad, tell me, ladies and gentlemen. Is that bad? I don't think it's bad. And what is important to stress is that in the PKP9 – which I can already point out – will already be covered, at least I hope, by this country's exit strategy. There we will talk about where Slovenia will go after this crisis. You know, all these years, I've been talking about the fourth industrial revolution, digitization, a lot of projects. This is now the subject of decades, as they say, also on the basis of the European Union, the European Commission is preparing the basis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, you have recently received a proposal to also set up a special committee for digital and green transformation of Slovenia in the National Assembly, where the largest set of exit strategies will be covered, where many Slovenian intellectuals will be given space, individuals who can predict or seek solutions for that break-in of Slovenia, which will be urgently needed to make these debts that have now been relatively cheap, as you have mostly found, reduced and that Slovenia will be able to emerge from this crisis as a great winner. To remember, the world after this crisis will no longer be the same. The cards will get mixed up in new ones, and some will become global players, which we may not even know today. Dear fellows, remember something. The person, the fellow human being, the partner, as well as the politics you recognize most in the crisis – how it works, how it behaves, what its psyche is, whether it will endure or not, whether it will offer a hand and whether it is about moving Slovenia from this point. I also thank the many opposition colleagues who have recognized this. All those who are not yet, let this be a lesson for you to recognize in the future. This will not be because of Janez Janša, not because of a government led by John Janša, not because of Franz Breznik, Marian Pojbič or anyone else; it will be because of you, your children, your relatives and our Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u179	My friend Beznik obviously doesn't know the facts well enough. The amount of the bank hole was determined by Banka Slovenije or the European Central Bank. Minus is not a debtor. He's a creditor. And once you're in a corner to your neck, the least you can expect from coalition or opposition parties is that they don't talk dirty about their country abroad, and they don't talk dirty about it, and they don't ask creditors to send us to a deeper bankruptcy. And that's what the then government did. And Alenka Bratusek's government had a headache, not because she would drink and eat, but because she paid debts to transitional governments, drinks. And that's what we're doing now. We're on the same track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u180	Thank you very much. He has Mr. Pojbich on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u181	Mr. Vice President. Please warn the debater that he is not wasting absurd lies. What my colleague has just discussed is extremely inappropriate, absurd and contrary to everything the documents say. Therefore, I pray that no one may ever, regardless of who sits in this national assembly, allow himself to deceive and lie. Mr Vice-President, please remind him that everything he has just said is a sacramental lie. No, it is absolutely contrary to what has really been happening, and in stark contrast to what Slovenia could have experienced when this possibility was that, with significantly lower costs, it would have been in debt and overcome that crisis with significantly lower costs. And today, all of us would have made it much easier for us to live together, much more money would have been left in the handouts to share with people; not when someone tried to buy his position that he had forced into the National Assembly, so that he could be a Commissioner in the European Community; and he was willing to sell it in such a way as the country was told here today. I do not agree with this and I ask you to warn him that the Lord does not waste his lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I would like to invite you, when you have a procedural proposal – now Mr Andrej Reich will be given the floor first – to really propose the content of the procedural proposal and to stick to the amendment that we are in. Procedurally, Mr. Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u183	The government of Alenka Bratušek paid for the pollination of previous governments and we had a headache because others were drinking and eating. And apparently some of them haven't sobered up yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u184	Mr Reich, this was no procedural proposal. Please do not use the Rules of Procedure for these purposes. Mr. Golubovic, do you also have procedural procedures? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, I would like to point out that my colleague Reich used the replica and then he used Pojbič as a procedural abuse. And I would expect someone who's 16 years in the National Assembly to know the rules of procedure. My procedural proposal is that such a serious abuse of procedure as was afforded by your colleague Pojbič, you should stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go, Miha.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u187	If the Janez Janša coalition had helped people at least half as excited as it is now for more than six hours, they would not have had a health, social, or economic crisis in the country. But it is obvious that ladies and gentlemen from the coalition led by the SDS today are on the line – at least three lies per minute. Meanwhile, all the rest of this country, which we coalition ladies and gentlemen are convincing us how successful they are in dealing with the covida-19 epidemic, we live in a third country, which is the number three global death. There's only Belgium and San Marino in front of us. More than 3,000 stories, lives have come to a tragic end, 2,000 of them in the homes of older citizens. Because Minister Cigler King looked away during the summer because he did not listen to us in Levica, which we first called on him and then begged him to move the elderly to hospitals where they could, of course, move them; but where they could not, to organize dislocated departments. And we were rejected in the spring, looked away in the summers, and there came a second wave, a tragedy. All others, who are not a coalition or a criminal association of SDS with friends, also live in a country that in the seven past PKP packages has spent as much as €700 million, that is 1.7 billion euros to save capital. Five times the smaller amount, €370 million, was dedicated to protecting and saving people. And no, ladies and gentlemen, espouses don't belong in the category of capital. It is very clear from such priorities of the government of Janez Janša, who is merely watching as to how the epidemic would be misused in order to concrete itself on the authorities, that people are confused. They don't know what's right, they don't know what's wrong, they don't know what's wrong, they don't know what's wrong. According to the National Institute for Public Health, although we already knew this before, the main source of infection is in the workplaces, a large proportion in industrial areas or industry, in the economy in general. The government sanctions employers who force workers into factories even when they are infected, even when they show symptoms? No, no, no. Has she closed down the infected plants and contaminated industrial zones? Not at all. She's closed the school. Schools that should close last and open first. Much of these infections, which spread through industry, fuel the growing phenomenon of presentationism. It's that people come to work even when they're sick, not just because they're forced by their employer, but because they're afraid of losing their income. Labour wages in this country are already too low. The government of Janez Janša did not give them a hundred percent refund in case they were sick or infected with covid-19. Refunds are lower than theirs, as I mentioned before, already modest wages. Moreover, the procedure for obtaining this compensation by the government has been so ambitious that a person takes the form into his hands and gets a headache. And, of course, people, to avoid falling into poverty or to ensure basic survival for themselves, their family, can say, even for old parents and children, go to work if only they can, if they are infected, avoid reporting contacts. The government of Janez Janša, Minister of Cygler King, act as if they don't know it, act as if they don't see it, and don't help the workers. And an epidemic of covida-19 hara further, death amassing. Croatia, Germany, as well as Austria have found a very elegant answer, a rather self-evident response in fact, to the fact that they are preventing the spread of infection across the economy and beyond due to presentationism. It's not rocket science. Any worker infected with covid-19 shall be compensated by a hundred percent. And let him stay home for two weeks, say hello, not endangering the health of his colleagues or anyone else with whom he would come into contact in transit to work and back. Problem solved. No big red tape. And the epidemiological picture would soon begin to improve. We have good examples abroad, but John Janša does not see them. It does not even see the same regime as proposed in the amendments to its PKP packages. Not only to PKP8, but also in the past. Moreover, this PKP8 was written in this way by the government of Janez Janša and sent to the state-level assembly procedure that amendments could not even be protected by workers with a hundred percent refund in the event of illness or infection. And I don't understand why. If other countries have been able to do so with good consideration, why can't we do so with us? This is suggested by the trade unions, which is constantly being pointed out in Levica, and by the National Institute for Public Health, which the government of Janez Janša, to some extent with Deputy Milan Krek, had to disclose data at the end of last year and give a voice — after months of avoiding it — to infections in jobs. Not by some bikers, by the walls, by martinis — or by whatever lies of the day that John Janša and his headquarters had in mind. The response is very symptomatic for the overall adoption of the PKP8, and the adoption of the PKP8 alone is once again symptomatic of previous anti-Korona measures. The meeting of the Committee on the Treatment of PKP8 expired yesterday. She was called on Friday on her nose. The unions were completely alienated from any social dialogue or even from any contribution. They got an invitation to the meeting half an hour before she started. This is a cynical direct mockery from the representatives of 800,000 workers and workers who have brought us through the previous wave of the epidemic, and they also maintain society in this wave of epidemic, often on minimum wages. And then she deals with the PKP8 herself, who dragged herself all day yesterday and late into the night. Today, several hours from the coalition have been trying to convince us how terrible we are the opposition MPs. Those who, I don't understand exactly, have we delayed the treatment, have we not supported this marriage package of the PKP8? Because what we saw yesterday was a complete collapse of the legislative process. The PKP packages, instead of getting better at marital cleanliness and some sense of action, are getting worse. And yesterday this inability of the government of Janez Janša to prepare a marriage package, a paper basically to write it by drinking water, struck its inner limit. The session collapsed. They voted on amendments that were not commercially permissible, put to the vote by the chairman of the committee Eva Irgl of the SDS. The coalition line there didn't even know exactly what was going on, where we were, or whether these amendments could go to the vote, or whether these amendments didn't go to the vote on what the amendment said. However, the session was constantly suspended, so that the coalition amendments could be corrected because they were even more impetuous in the original than they had written the law a few days earlier. This absurd incompetence went so far that in the end, the opposition Members could only stand by and be speechless. Complete collapse of the legislative process. And, of course, the consequences for the country are therefore tragic. Instead of dealing with meaningful measures to help people, only EUR 370 million were allocated to the people working in this country. Only EUR 370 million. Capital, large installations, including the financial sector – EUR 1,000 700 million. But John Janša outlines other priorities, such as helping and supporting people. For example, he would dictate to future students where they could be enrolled and where they could not be enrolled, arbitrarily substituted for entry places in colleges. All this is some madness that we managed to stop on yesterday's committee, and we have accepted the amendment to temporarily take the power of the government to intervene in tendering places at universities and universities, because we all understand why it is doing so. Neither the SDS nor Janez Janša as Prime Minister simply dislikes smart people. Because their lies in such a sharp contrast with the severe pressures of people can only be believed by buttocks; they are not trained people. After all, those who do not have schools feel the distress they face in their daily lives. And this crisis is largely not the result of an epidemic in itself, of a biological emergency or anything like that; it is the social situation in which this epidemic is taking place. These are the social conditions in which we have a completely incompetent government that has left people stranded, and instead we prefer to fraternize with criminal associations. Even the minimum wage that we have been able to raise and redefine legally in Levica in cooperation with the government of Marjan Šarc in 2018, and this is a achievement that we are truly proud and very proud of, even this increase, which should be 20% above the minimum costs and should be carried out smoothly, automatically, is not something that the government of Janez Janša would be able or willing to carry out. And we got PKP8, inside two articles, one that gives employers minimum wages, cuts contributions for workers' payments to pensions and health bills; and the other, which gives them minimum wages from the state budget, from the register of all citizens and citizens, 50 euros each month for each paid minimum wage. Wow. In Nova Slovenija, however, they say they are against social tourism, and in about the same way they refer to the social hardships of people as other coalition partners. For those in need, the free market obviously applies to those in need. For all people who aren't capitalists. However, these should be rewarded generously with our total money from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, a budget that is practically monthly burdened now with new debts, in order to generate more profits on the shoulders of already brutally exploited workers who give them a minimum wage for their service. This contribution is additionally interesting in a somewhat black way because the cuts in contributions to the health treasury actually cut the influx into the payer of services and material in Slovenian health care. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of an epidemic. We have over 3,000 dead. And you're doing what? Those employers who are not willing to pay their employees minimum wages with a raise are cut down on contributions to give less for Slovenian health care, so that they can re-manage their own higher profits. No wonder nobody believes this government anymore. With such an exercise, how to take care of working people on the one hand, who are left on the left side, and how to richly untie a government scrotum for any capitalist, how only anyone of a governmental or coalition nature could believe in the word and believe in trust. It does not work, of course, it does not work, especially if you come from one of the many working groups that the government has forgotten, given that we are in PKP8, we can say that we are probably partly out of incompetence first, and then partly out of incompetence. Let's say it's a student worker. Those students who got caught up or got caught up in the student work so that they could survive, so that they could study, as many as 20,000 of them were living dependent on this income, the government had forgotten about it, left it on hold, no matter what the warnings, no matter what the amendments. Young people for the government of Janez Janša are obviously not worth a penny. Let them find themselves alone, as they know and know to buy bread and pâté if they can; if they cannot, the government obviously shows that it is not her problem and that they should find themselves alone. Apparently, working students, poor students themselves are guilty of not owning a factory with 300 employees on minimum wages; because if these students were capable, they would have a factory like this and the government would have given them millions. Or maybe from the other entry into this same equation. They're fine with it. They don't smuggle dirty fast tests, so they can starve to death. And this priority scale that she's helping and who she's not, it's really super talkative. If you're a student worker, the government will let you know what you know and know. If you're someone who works as a nickname, you have your espa, you're self-employed, then you'll be given some basic income, a thousand 100 euros, and then you'll be bragging a lot, even though you might get that income, but maybe you won't get it, because some espacies are justified, those who opened their espaes two days later, but you won't. And if we cut off from these thousands of EUR 100 of basic income all the costs associated with this type of espionage, we come to the fact that the government has actually helped some espies perhaps with 200 euros of basic income. If, of course, you are a corporation, one big factory that pays the minimum wage, in which case the government will reward you with a cut in the contributions you make to our common good. More. She'll reward you with 50 euros from the state budget because you're really such a good person that you're using people on minimum wage. Well, if you're a corporation that carries the Vatican, the RCC Corporation, then you don't just get a 50-euro monthly remittance from the state budget and a smaller cut into contributions - oh, no, in that case the government will just pay you the contributions of Janez Janša and she'll give you your salary. You won't believe it, ladies and gentlemen. This is not where the story ends. If you're a financial institution, well, then Janez Janša dances like a whistle bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u188	Thank you very much. She has Mrs. Bah on a trial basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Vice President of the National Assembly. I must say that I very much appreciate you, but please, in accordance with Article 75, I call on you to protect me and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am not a liar and the Slovenian Democratic Party is not a criminal association. I don't allow that, because, respectable, verbal violence has only one step to physical. And I'm asking you to protect us Members, because I stepped into politics when my colleague Kordish was still in diapers. That was my decision. I've been through a lot, and I've been through a lot. But I will not allow anyone in this temple of democracy to commit verbal violence against me. Again, I'm not a criminal, and I'm not a liar. After all, my family, my child, my parents, who raised me very well. And I really don't allow that. Please, Presidents, to protect us in accordance with Article 75, and also to prevent such debates. This goes beyond all limits, and it goes on and on and on. Indeed, we Members have the possibility to apply the Penal Code and procedures that are not the subject of this National Assembly, but I no longer allow myself to do so. I won't allow it because I'm not a criminal and I'm not a liar! I've always done what's right, and that's how I'll do it in the future. Someone who's younger than me once won't talk to me like that. And I am asking you, President, to protect me as well as my fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I'm sure your procedural proposal is acceptable. Members and Members would really like us to conduct ourselves properly to this temple of democracy and to avoid such and other hints; especially if these things are not yet true. Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u191	Colleagues and colleagues and presidents. As a procedural proposal. I don't know if you've noticed, but there's been some movement in the process of taking the antikoronic package of eight that we've never seen before in previous packages. In previous packages, we were able to monitor how the government communicates on anti-Korona measures, and the coalition is more or less quiet and somehow waits for us in the opposition to cough, so that the vote will pass that Janša strikes the country further. But this time it's different. Today, coalition MPs like glass dogs are attacking us in opposition. Their lies are not foreign. They're affected more often than they're normal. I wonder why. Is this because they completely cancelled the legislative procedure yesterday?Oh, my God! It does not matter because the government, especially the SDS, has been given a ton of support or because the government of Janez Janša has been made public. Neglect [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u192	Mr. Kordish, please, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u193	I conclude, chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u194	a procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u195	However, they are so nervous in the coalition because certain police investigations may be nearing their conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u196	Mr. Kordish, let me say you're abusing the rules of procedure. This was not a procedural proposal. Yes, Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Chairman. You see how it goes in this national council. I have previously referred literally to the Rule of Procedure. My colleague Kordish is re-absorbing this National Assembly and again talking about criminal associations and lies. I ask you to give warnings in accordance with the 76th and subsequent articles of the fasting and for such acts. That's too big. That's too big. Excuse me, criminal gang, but does anyone even know what this MP is saying?Oh, my God! Once again, I'm not a criminal association, and I'm not in a client that's a criminal association. And I'm not lying. And that's enough! My friend Kordish, please, that's enough. President, he has to stop in this National Assembly somewhere, or I don't know if I'm gonna have to come up with protective equipment next time, because I don't know what he's gonna do the next time he meets me. For he seems to continue with these insults. As I said, we all know what verbal violence means and where it leads to verbal violence. I won't allow it! Not for me, but for my family. I won't allow it! And please protect me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Mr Kordish, please tell me on which article of the Rules of Procedure you will make a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u199	I would like to draw attention to the application of the Rules of Procedure and its provisions governing procedural proposals for purely substantive accounting and for communication with the public in the manner of playing the victim, which has absolutely nothing to do with what I have ever said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u200	Mr. Kordish, please, what is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u201	To stop this kind of behaviour, the presidents, because it is disrespectful to citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u202	See, since you are using the Rules of Procedure, I am giving you a warning and taking the floor on the basis of Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u203	You have no procedural option to take my word for it, chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u204	He's got a word for it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u205	My procedural proposal is still pending, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u206	Here you go, sir. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u207	He can't sign up if mine's still running. You can't take away my word after any warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u208	Mr. Kordish, I took your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u209	You're not her. Look, I've got my microphone on. Please make an effort to conduct this meeting a little better than Eva Irgle conducted yesterday's working body meeting, please. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u210	Mr. Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u211	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I have a procedural proposal that a member of the Parliament – if I may even call him Mr Kordish – should you give him a warning, he has already received one. Because what he was doing again, what he was doing last night, and what he was doing at the board meeting when he was talking, you're lying, you're stealing, you've got fleas, that the whole of Slovenia is watching him, and now he's calling us a criminal group, run dogs and similar expressions that don't belong in the National Assembly, and I just can't suffer this sort of balinian behavior anymore. That's below every level. We say things to each other, we talk, we talk, we talk, but with such insults, with such low words, what Ambassador Kordish is doing, with that ugly mask, it's a disaster. It's despair. And such attacks on Members also respond in the field, in public, and therefore the state of the spirit in Slovenia is as it is, precisely because of such behaviour. We should be the first example and act in accordance with the Constitution, laws and regulations. We have adopted a code that this Member does not adhere to. And he should have been punished a long time ago. And because of what he was doing at the board meeting yesterday, and he insulted Eva Irgle, he should be getting out of that session. It's a disaster disaster. Please apologize for all that he's doing. Thank you, Vice-President, for somehow reacting, as in such an exceptional, discarding case as this member of the party Levits, who has received the name extreme, and some other Left, because he behaves so badly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Let me tell you that I gave Mr. Kordish a reminder and took away the word. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u213	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Very nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues and everyone else present at this meeting! Perhaps I will begin with my colleague Kordiš marking the past government, the government of Marjan Šarc, in the words of the incompetent government that has left people alone. And in this government, as far as we know, the Left was a super-coalist party, which also caused one of the reasons that the former government had gone the way it had gone, that it had actually left people stranded. This government, and the government of John Janša, is working for the people, as is evident from today's adoption of the eighth anti-Korona package, in which all the measures that are written are primarily aimed at helping people, ordinary people – such as Levic, ordinary people – but besides them the emphasis is on preserving jobs and somehow preserving the economy in life. Some of you may have pointed out that these measures do not help the economy survive, I will tell you myself that we have a great employer in Nova Gorica besides others who are also very important, but I will focus on what you probably all know – HIT, hotels, casinos, tourism. If this employer did not have this assistance, these measures are called temporary waiting for work, it would have closed the door a long time ago. In addition, other measures have been welcome, including exceptional assistance in the form of monthly basic income; many espouses and many cultural workers would not be able to overcome these problems that the epidemic has brought. And it's very hard to hear someone say to a fellow Muskrich who's been in the economy all these years and he's had to learn a lot to get through the thorny path that he's been laid down as an economist, that someone who doesn't have experience in the economy tells him that espouses don't create capital. And that's how they create it, and a lot of traffic in our country is created by these very little espouses. It is also capital, what you think companies are important, but economic societies are the driving force in our local community. Those who do well leave something in the local community, leave it for the state and also for those employees who know and know how to appreciate a good employer. For a good employer also takes care of good workers. And the fact that employers don't take care of workers is just deception. Ask yourself what employers do to keep employees as healthy as possible. And they followed the instructions of the profession, and they are jobs, so where workers are employed, where they do their job, they have arranged for them to do their job safely, and that infections do not spread. The main source of infection is not in employers, because it is an insult to employers. Each employer will ensure that it does not spread an infection because it aims to maintain, if we can say so, production or the basic work process, a basic activity. The main source of infection is, in particular, the scoffing of some opposition Members against people not respecting measures to call people to the streets. And by inviting people into the streets, people hang out without protective masks. I am very proud of myself because today I also saw this so-called meeting that supports the opening of schools, because it was shown as if it was a very numerous rebellion in Nova Gorica. The parents of the children we have involved in primary and secondary schools have received a report and I am pleased to tell you that there is actually a smaller percentage of those who support the opening of schools in the sense you want. There are more who want to protect their lives, to protect their children from going to school, when they can also make sure that they do not infect their teachers, and that they will come safely to school: not in the middle of an epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I've listened to some of the SDS Members' discussions before. And if you've been watching cartoons, us, who are older when Kalimera was there, it's typical Kalimera because you can't be told anything. You're constantly insulted, you're constantly in the role of victim. Which bothers me the most personally, and I'll point it out again, you don't speak Slovenian. Well, we're different educations, but if someone tells you to attack us, the opposition, like dogs, you understand – wow, you're treating us with glass dogs. It's a coincidence. You can't be figuratively talked to. You understand this: the death of janchism; they threaten our president. Where are you?Oh, my God! Or you're doing this on purpose, which I believe. Mrs Elena Ussaj, you said that Mr Moscrich had a thorny path paved like an espionage. Great, if she was laid out for him, really. A good employer, Mrs Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, is the one who pays his workers well, pays fair wages and who pays him contributions that when he retires, he will not go to church and will not go to the Red Cross to pick up packages. You know how many pensioners there are. He's a good employer. And you, by your actions, of course, wanted employers to be allowed to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u216	You're out of time. Mag. Elena Zavadlav Ears, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u217	Thank you. I'll be brief, because I don't have much time, too, but I'd like to tell my colleague Violet that she's actually deceiving. We understand the parables very well; therefore we have also explained that the general public will understand what you are implying. That's the first explanation. The other is that you probably don't know what a good worker and a good employer really means.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u219	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! I'm in a bad voice, I hope I can say what I think. As I stood in the hall for a few hours and had a cup of coffee, I drank it by the window, where the personal belongings and books of Dr. Frances Bucar, one of the fathers of this country, were located. An intellectual I appreciate. And I was thinking, with everything that's been going on for the past two days in this national council, this man would have thought. I think he's turning in his grave. Now, what was before me, two, three debates, respectable colleagues and colleagues, we will be devouring each other. In this way, we will not do anything good for this country. I was unable to attend the meeting yesterday, and I had some medical examinations, but most of them — five, six hours — were on television. I was at home ashamed of the level of communication we let into this national council. I was overjoyed when people gave me confidence and I got votes that I was elected here because it is an honor for me to be a Member of this National Assembly. All 90 of us should strive for the well-being of people so that they can live better in this country, so that we are better tomorrow than we are today. What are we doing? We'll swear among ourselves. There's not much missing. It makes me so angry that sometimes I don't find words to say. About what we're judging. We are talking to the rhetoric of the thirties of the previous century – the breaking of capitalists' backs, on the other hand, what was 30 years ago, who was responsible for something, what was ten years ago, who was guilty. Sometimes I think I'm in the company of historians; not in the National Assembly, I've said it in here before. Let's be sober. The numbers have already been mentioned several times, how many people are dead, and here we are, who will be more disrespectful, who will be more offensive to each other. Let's stop this. It won't be better in this country until we stop this practice. I really don't. I'm ashamed, I'm really ashamed sometimes that I'm in here, that this level I can agree with, I have different views on certain things, I'll say them; but I can be respectful about it. [[…]] But in the final stage, I am also wondering because of all the situation we have today in Slovenia, when we are failing the best type of measures that have already been taken; I wonder why. It is because of this relationship that we have established at the summit of state policy. And if I start with the President of the Government, he's on Twitter with three quarters of Slovenia, and we're counting on everyone else. The President of the Government could be a gentleman, not with anyone who otherwise thinks to account on Twitter. The National Assembly, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Tanko, was called a doctor of the Rules of Procedure years ago. Today's disaster, insulting, sexist, you're explaining the rules of procedure. The Minister of the Interior, the Minister of the Police is fighting with the police, the Minister of Culture is surrounded by culturers. Let's stop the horses a little bit, as they say, and be aware of the functions of why we are in this national council. There's no trust in people anymore. That's what we're missing. Or should it be trust in a circus like this that we're running here? So much for lying on my soul. Now a few words about these PKP historians as well. Perhaps just two more issues from the debate are also on this issue of respectful relations with one another. It starts at the head. I ask myself several times, I don't know if it's true, I've heard that the Americans are supposed to have a way after every war they've had anywhere in the world, the generals who won were in these wars, retired when this war is over. It doesn't matter how old they are, they give them the right status, they take them away in short. For more than 30 years, however, we have been burdened with independence with the credits that some attribute to themselves. Come on, tell us what to do, what kind of museum to build, a monument to who to stop it for once, and that generations will be 20 or 30 years younger than me, that my children will be in here talking about the future, not history. That's it. About PKP8. In fact, he didn't let me down in this direction, because it's kind of the way it's been going up until now, creating some confusion in the legislation that the Law-Legal Service warned me about yesterday. There is no reason for him to have such comments that he has a number of articles which are contrary to the Constitution. Some have serious concerns that today there is no need for you to accept them in this haste and that they come completely unprepared, as the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said yesterday, that they actually thought they had received a draft, not a final version of this law. There's no need for that. Why does it cause confusion? Since the beginning of these PKPs, the powers of the Government have not been clear, I don't know, we are talking about the economy and I haven't seen the Minister of Economy again. I think it makes sense that for economic measures, at least, the parent committee, the Committee on the Economy, it is there to deal with these matters. Do you know how many meetings of the Economic Committee have we had in this term? 12 regular meetings. And I think that something in 20 extraordinary, where we are mainly adopting, we are coordinating the directive, our legislation with the EU. 12 meetings, and we're saving the economy. The social part should be like, work, family, social. Not that we have made one mess, so people, economicists, and also people – with these measures that the Government is changing today so, tomorrow otherwise, is a complete mess. I don't think that's right. In the field of legislation, we have made a huge mess with these PKPs when we are interfering with a number of areas. Not to mention the government's actions that have changed every day, they've changed every hour lately. Schools work, schools don't work. And I won't think that they have to be open, and I'm thinking that the first concern for children is that they're safe, but people have it slowly – there are no action. Many people ask me: “Soni, what is it now?” The answer I can give: “Dear colleague, I know as much as you do, I learn from the media. I listen to the reports after the government meeting, what are the measures?" The way they are today, I have no idea. And people have had a lot of that. They can't go to school on Monday, and they can't go to school on Tuesday. These people are employees, they're employers, they're regulating things where they serve their bread to function normally. Finally, companies must also organise their work and employers must have one predictable working environment. And I'm not going to be smart, really, about the measures, because I want to believe in myself, and I also believe that you're trying as a government. I firmly believe that you are not doing us any harm on purpose, but I do not know what I am listening to in these discussions. How successful you are is another matter. If I abstained, I said this several times, and to the President of the Government and the ministers – don't brag about what you did good, how good everything was. It wasn't all good. 3,000 dead. I will never say it's John Brickler King's fault, ever. But he has a responsibility, and partly he wears it for what was happening in the department. It would probably be wise to consider eliminating them some year ago, as suggested at the time. I don't know. I know that the Minister of Health also objected to the fact that they also had different opinions, but these are facts. Please don't brag about what we've done, but about who we've done it for. Today, I do not know how many times we have heard what we have done for war veterans, for disabled people — all of them had parents and they are dying. Let us gather together, and let us take one such state-of-the-art action together, not arguing from the meeting to the meeting, so that they are more and more like the circus, not the National Assembly. Yesterday, I watched this session, as I said, on television, and I was watching the debate of the King's Minister, and you're glad that the eighth law of the PKP is already being prepared for the ninth. I must say that I do not know if I am quite pleased that the PKPs, respected colleagues and colleagues, are the result of unsuccessful measures in the field of control of the epidemic. These PKPs should not have to be extinguished if the underlying problem and the fire we have in this country is not successful. Ask me if I have better recipes, and the only thing I can tell you is that communication with citizens and citizens of this country must be at least different. I know that. Otherwise, you wouldn't be smart. And like I said, I know it's not easy. A few times it was what I also had general comments on, and I've had some. Even in May, I was among the initiators to request an extraordinary meeting of the Labour, Family and Social Committee on the subject of lack of social dialogue. Perhaps in that time of good month, when the Government began to face these measures, there was little understanding that there was a hurry, but also today, respected colleagues and colleagues, there was no rush to take the time to try to reconcile some things with the social partners as well. And not just the unions, they know who's in the Economic and Social world. What I heard today, I don't know, colleague Irgle, earlier: how much it is, but it's not true, but we have a great social dialogue, seven times already coordinated. I will forward it to her if she doesn't have it yet, but I think she's got it, and the Prime Minister knows that they got the email they wrote -- I think it came from the European Union Confederation today or yesterday -- on the subject of protesting what has been happening in Slovenia in recent months in the area of lack of social dialogue. Minister, understand the Economic and Social Council as a hand, as a pool where you have the opportunity to talk. Come on, take some steps sometimes to face good suggestions, one or the other. I know you can't always, but what you're doing to brag half an hour early – let's leave the reasons, you have to plan it early, timely planning meetings. To exclude them from the measures concerned, this does not lead in the long term to some consensus, to some common unification, not least in measures that will improve the health and epidemic situation. So much for social dialogue. If I move on. It's about action. I welcome, there are some very good measures far from being able to say that everything is wrong. I support those measures, which you extend, because they have proved to be good, the real extension of the subsidisation of waiting for work. What do we do in the final stage? This allows employees to maintain employment even though the scope of work is reduced. I believe it's better to get it from your employer every day, even though you're on hold than you're at the office. This is one of the good measures. I'm a long way from thinking we're financing capitalists and I don't know who else. We all decided in 1990, probably with some other intention, we were talking about a Switzerland, but today we are not this Switzerland, but today we are in a system based on private property that is called capitalists. And throws everything into the same basket today – that all employers are capitalists, who just suck on employees, is not true. We also have such cases, we have too many of them, I'm for them to be called inspections, sanctioning them, but we can't say that we have caste on one side today, which, I don't know, just extorting employees. We have a number of globally successful companies. Why are they successful? Because they have also managed to involve employees in their process, they must, of course, be rewarded accordingly. Today and yesterday I also listened to around 200 Euros of supplement in December. I don't know if that was exactly the problem, but if it was mass that people weren't enough. I believe that they are not enough, and I also believe that in December many companies are paying their people in a variety of ways – otherwise they are inventing crazy ways because we still have an inadequate taxation policy, we should do something about it, these awards would be even higher. But I don't know if that's the main problem, but it's OK, if you've solved it in this package, and if you get it, I'll be happy. [[…]] What else would you have around these packages? As far as the social field is concerned, I also welcome the solidarity allowance for the pensioners or the disabled who will receive it. If I don't understand something, because I know – I believe that the minister too, because they have access to data – what wages the disabled are getting, that these invalid pensions are miserable, is that we haven't done this before. Well, you've added veterans to the war, it goes to the same group as I said before, what we're talking about to some groups, people who've either been threatened or something. I know everyone's money comes in handy, but I understand because my colleague Irgle said she met with them, and they're probably in it today. And they're not the only ones who won't say I have anything against them. I welcome your assistance to the largest humanitarian organizations, Karitas and the Red Cross. Organizations that are valued, which have done a lot of good in this, so I have no problem with this myself. Addition. It is not clear to me why the single solidarity allowance for the unemployed is unique. You mention or set date 12. 3. Even people who have been in the institution for two years have a difficult social situation, according to what they get from the institution, fighting is small. And that we were doing one cut date to those who went 14 days or two days earlier, it doesn't make any sense to me, and I don't know why you decided to do that. Around this supplement, minimum wage. 50 euros. And I'm not exactly agreeing that this is completely for everyone, even for companies that work with profits. I doubt that companies working with profits will deal with paperwork for the 50 euros per employee they have. In the final phase, as I have the data, if I recall, there are about 40,000 or so. There are also many successful companies, and I doubt they will be applying the €50 back. However, it is appropriate that those who are more labour intensive, who do not have any stocks, be helped if they are able to do so. Two more sentences on health measures. I welcome the reintroduction of the hospital stock within three days, but what bothers me or, I don't know, of course, is to redefine the State's obligation to finance personal protective equipment for employees in nursing homes. I welcome this because I know what the cost is for them is a good measure. But here I would warn you that we are completely forgetting the costs of the residents of these homes. Today was just one interesting show, between €300 and €500, a representative of these institutions, the DSOs said that people have to pay for additional services because the covid hung them because they cannot go to the dining room alone because they need little help. It's all charged. This seems to me to be a cost — because the additional costs are due to covid’s disease, it does not seem right to be passed on to an employee. And around religious freedom is this. Interpellation or Friday's meeting because of the institution that the minister funded, or everything that was going on, is a matter that you wanted to turn by the coalition into a question of religious tolerance and intolerance, and what is happening today in these measures with the help of the church or this compensation – I will slowly leave it to my colleagues – I personally have no problem with it if the revenues are lower, the churches are closed if there is a category, I don't know, the clergy are also in social distress. However, I agree with all that they have, in the final stage of the biggest employer in Slovenia, the RDC, which could also do something for its own. Although in the final stage, if you've assessed, I have no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Thinko procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President and everyone else! When I presided over the meeting, I merely pointed out that we should respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Everything that happens in the National Assembly begins with a fundamental lack of respect for the rules of procedure, which is carried out systematically and in a planned manner. You know, if someone accuses someone of being a criminal, even though this person is neither processed nor any proceedings against him, then he is in violation of Article 27 of the Constitution. If it violates a person and does not guarantee the integrity of physical and mental integrity, privacy and personal rights, it is in breach of Article 35 of the Constitution. If you violate a person's personality and dignity, Article 21 of the Constitution is violated. And if fellow Members are unable to detect these things in the debates, then anyone who is having difficulty conducting a meeting of the National Assembly is in violation of the provisions of the Constitution relating to human rights. You have adopted a code for Members of the National Assembly. Article 1 of the Code states that the Code applies to all Members and that, if the principles of this Code are violated, this is unfair for the National Assembly. Then you have that the Member must protect the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, the reputation of the National Assembly and the parliamentary function. You have this in Article 4 of the Code. Then, in Article 8, you have dignity and respect: “The Member is dignified, respectful, patient and non-discriminatory,” and so on and so forth. When I first called for only respect for the Rules of Procedure, there was a lot of protest in here, because I warned you about it. A colleague, the vice president, had not yet closed her door, she already shouted: “Procedurally!” Now that this has happened in the debate of one of the Members, there has been no one. None of you protested. This way to understand the rules of procedure, to understand the Constitution, to understand the ethical code is incorrect. All those who had previously told me that I had reached out to someone or that I had commented on him — compared to what was said here — was a minor act. Of all the fellow Members, of all the fellow Members, of us who hold the meetings and of you who debate, I expect us to respect the principles of the Constitution and the rights we have as citizens, the principles of the Code, and to adhere to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in these discussions. Mr Vice-President, I propose that this should only be taken into account in all these discussions. Because if we don't respect the Constitution, if we don't respect the rules of procedure and the code, then we're done in this national assembly, this national assembly, as people imagine, is no longer. This is the task of us who hold the meetings, and we owe it to everyone who does not respect these things, who violates them, to warn, during the debate, after the debate, whenever he does so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I fully agree with your proposal and call on all colleagues and colleagues to be patient, to behave and to use words that are appropriate in the National Assembly. Let's stop sharing some hate arrows, and I don't know what. So I agree with that, but it's an appeal to all of us. Of course, then we intervene on such matters when we warn someone twice, and we take his word and so forth. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can see that. Please, Mr. Duck, procedurally. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u223	Mr. Tanko is also a Member, and if you set the mirror, you first set the mirror for yourself. [[18 seconds of speech when the microphone is not turned on; when the speaker is turned on, the speaker summarizes already]] I absolutely agree with him, but he forgot something else. The Rules of Procedure shall also apply to guests in the National Assembly, in particular those responsible for the Assembly under Article 110 of the Constitution. If Jože Tanko had stuck to what he said now, he would have demanded at least John Janša and Mr Hojs. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Gradually, Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. My procedural proposal is to remind the honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly not to abuse procedural proposals. Why? Because it was his, to say in the notes, "smarting" or teaching all of you Members – I had a feeling in the middle that he was not, but okay – it probably only served to "wash" in the notes, of course, what he had done before, what he had actually done over half an hour here. However, he did unacceptable things that he should not have done, not as a Member, but even less than the chairman of the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I suggest we repeat the application procedure, because several deadlines have been raised. I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure is underway. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u227	Thank you very much. In Croatia and in Italy they talk about how they will relax measures, but in Slovenia everything is wrong for three months. And we are expected to tighten the measures and all of this is expected to last in good case until May or June, and we are already closed in the congregations, we have closed schools, work is banned for some and we are all subject to curfew. Despite all these measures, we have 3,000,500 dead. And people are wondering. If they ask, they need answers. What was the answer a few days ago? “Although the number is falling, we are seeing growth.” By this way of communication, no one has denied it or tried to explain it, you people and you expect us to be serious about your proposals and you have a face to say because in other countries they also have measures. Yes, they do, but there seems to be a proportion of the balance that works, they're effective. But you can only lock us in the basement in your former shelters, and you may hope that the number of infected people will finally begin to fall. Why? Because people abroad know what will happen in 14 days and why 14 days will apply. However, these 14 days have lasted for four months or three months. And for the situation that has arisen because of such devastatingly bad statistics, who is to blame? It's people's fault, it's the opposition's fault, it's the media's fault, it's now the British strain and it's the South African strain, we've heard attempts yesterday, but maybe even the Slovenian strain that we had as a unique in Europe, our strain was so bad that we had statistics that we had devastating. The consequences of all these ineffective measures, the total policy failure to control this epidemic, are here. Today, for the eighth time, we are fixing things backwards with the PKP package, correcting disproportionate, ineffective measures. In 10 months, eight laws! You only took the summer off, and you're assessing it as a success?Oh, my God! Another one in the series of defeats. It still does not teach you, for the eighth time, the Law-Legal Service has spoken: fragmented, opaque, incomprehensible, making it difficult to get familiar with its legal position, unconstitutional, illegal. In your opinion, it's all perfect, it's beautiful and you save lives, you save jobs, and I don't know what else. What does 32,000 companies, or 260,000 people waiting for work, have to do with the credit ratings you are so boasting about? Nothing except that the Government, by decree, has banned certain activities from this Parliament, the Government by decree. She has banned them and is now saving them, trying to save them. That's not what the virus did. Stop pronouncing the virus once, it wasn't the virus that caused the government to take disproportionate and ineffective measures. You can put on pink glasses and see how wonderful everything is — not wonderful! You're in trouble. The sooner you admit it, the sooner we can move forward. The government gives? The government first took it, so it banned it, then it got credit, and now it's giving. Yeah, sure. And we believe all of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The eighth antikronapack to help the economy and people is on the table. Four, half of all in the National Assembly, our Minister Janez Cigler King defends himself. Why? Not because it is the most positive surprise of this government, but because these packages focus on those areas that are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs, the disabled, equal opportunities and so on. It's the labour market, it's the social sector, it's the families, it's the pensioners. By the way, last year, including this year's 11 January, paid for pensioners in addition to a regular pension of 630 million. It's about nursing homes. Of course, we apologize, we haven't been able to build one in 10 months, and we will. But we will. However, we provided 30 million euros for the elderly for the employees there. I'm talking to the directors, the directors, it's been very welcome, and the human resources pressures are being effectively resolved. This debate, which we had listened to before, I did not like very much because it was all the fault of the Government. Starting with the rain in April, this comes, starting with the fog in November, that was already, and of course, this government is also responsible for the virus, and also for the English strain for the South African strain and so on and so on. That's typical. That's typical. However, I liked the debate by the distinguished colleague of Sonibo Knezak, and I would like to continue it. It's true, it's true, I'm afraid we're going to kill each other. Wouldn't they have calmed down the horses? Would you not respect the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the Code of Ethics for Members? Can we consider, colleagues and colleagues, to remove some words from our debates, such as fascists, murderers, nuisances, criminals in power and so on and so forth? Can we deal with this? It is easy to remember five and six words, we say, from now on we will no longer use them, but at least in this way we will be addressing our colleagues. Yeah, I'm talking to the first person in the crowd. At a time when it destroys a deadly virus, politics really should be united. Yes, the opposition says it's not possible with you, but how can I explain that as many as three heads of Parliament's parties to the President of the Republic – and who is it, is the President of the Republic, a function – what they say, no, and we will not come to your invitation? Can you imagine? Three people say no. Well, now let politics unite. So no one can simply unify this policy. I know this is hard for you to listen to, but we are concerned, colleagues and colleagues, and I firmly support the fact that from this national council comes an enemy rhetoric that spreads into the streets and reflects itself in the creaky crosses on many objects and reflects itself with a ruined fresco of priceless value and reflects on our colleagues, specifically from SMC, from Desus and so on, to muddy, I am very sorry and empathetic, including President Desus and so on. I'm saying this hostile rhetoric is coming from here, and that's what I'm worried about. Colleagues and colleagues, we must not allow the concept of freedom of our Slovenian society to change. We must be aware of the value of freedom, or we must be aware that free will is a matter of every man and that we are the ones who decide today for good or for evil. Yes, we can come out of this terrible crisis better or worse. The same way we stepped in it, we're not going out. We have to do everything we can to make it better. People need to get back together, think about not doing anything bad, something that could put someone else at risk. Today a man has done evil, he has drawn a pecking cross. It's a symbol of division, of war, of hunger. Our oldest generations have a bitter experience of this symbol. Today, more than ever, they need unity, solidarity. Why would we hate each other? Who benefits from hating? Therefore, I must strongly resist all those who are creating news that share our society and cause evil in people. Today it's anger, anger, and graffiti. I don't think it's a little naive graffiti. Maybe it'll be a man over a man. We can't afford that. We can't evolve in this direction. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] May I continue, Mr. President? Thank you very much. We're talking about the state of the spirit, a respected young colleague. If I talk about measures, you'll say everything sucks, so I won't talk about them. If I talk about how the measures work, how the European Union sees them, you will say that we are boasting and not boasting. So let's not brag. But look at the work of this government, or John the Brick King, if you will. See today's Twitter, which is an extremely useful communication channel, EU Social [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u230	Comrade Horvat, we're with the PKP. I suggest we really stick to today's topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Why are we doing all this? Why? That's exactly what I'm trying to prove. Because we're in seven, we're in seventh place with regard to unemployment. These are the methodologies of the European Commission. Someone says that we do not work that these measures are not for people – ladies and gentlemen, are they employees in companies, in the public sector, in institutions not people? I am sure that Slovenian citizens are the happiest when they can create new values, when they can develop all their potentials, intellectual, entrepreneurial, cultural, artistic and so on. That's what makes a man happy, and that's what we want to do. I know, we're not perfect. I know, I admit, we don't make it 100 percent, not at all. I know. We're not perfect in communication. But I find it hard to agree that we just don't know what's going to happen for a month. The virus knows, the virus can predict it. On 3 December, however, the Government adopted precise criteria for release, if you want, with the exact numbers to be considered as national level, for regional level, and when these criteria are met, then the measure will also happen or be released. I am pleased that this package really has special attention to the economy – I always understand this as a logical whole of the employer – that it is a matter of extending the waiting period from 1 February to 30 April with the possibility of extending until 30 June to subsidise the minimum wage. This government respects the Minimum Wages Act and it is right for people to receive such a minimum wage as is enshrined in the law. I conclude with questions, which was also asked by colleague Sonibo, because today was too much, ladies and gentlemen, to blame employers. Who's this capitalist you're making fun of? A neighbor who is an independent entrepreneur who deals with design and computing? A cousin who owns a bar and two employees' waitresses? A friend who's a mechanic and has four machine engineers working for auto-diagnosis? A friend who has a company and 20 employees, an ulcer on his stomach and sleepless nights, because he doesn't know how he'll provide money for wages, contributions, taxes? Who is this capitalist? Perhaps the capital, which created around 4 billion profits in Slovenia last year and before last year and about that much, 4 billion, invested in research and development for new jobs for young people? Who are you fighting, who are you protecting people, workers? Let's calm down, let's sober up. Everyone is precious in this beautiful country. Today, I and the New Slovenia Group will be pleased to support the package. With all our knowledge and effort, we will also prepare the next package, the ninth if it will also take the tenth to start the Slovenian economy in a period that will be brighter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Colleague Andrea Zabrett, did you answer for the debate? [[No, no, ……]] Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u233	Dear President! I would ask you if, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Mr Horvath, you could warn, that is, from 12 minutes when he spoke, he spoke about the law itself perhaps now at the end of three words. So he didn't stick to the very topic of the agenda. The second point is that I could see that he accused one of the national council here of drawing hooky crosses across certain objects across Slovenia. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, you said it was coming out of this place specifically. But if we look at it, we can get used to it from Mr. Horvath, and he recently accused the police of looking into his personal files, and accused the government of Marjan Sarca of looking at his personal files. And it was found that this was not true, and you still haven't apologized today. Please, my procedural proposal is to remind him to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to stick to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u234	I understand the motion of procedure. Colleague Zabrett, this is not a reminder, but there is a procedural proposal on the ground. I have now come back after six hours and we are still at Article 1. In the beginning, if you remember, I have proposed that we move away from the established practice a little bit, that is to say, in Article 1, long and wide. Indeed, already in the case of two laws, we have been exhausted all the time under Article 1. Each parliamentary group is free of charge with its time available, but the purpose of the Rules of Procedure is likely to be to agree on a structured debate with the Rules of Procedure, so that Members may make an announcement where they think it is necessary. Some of you are preparing for certain articles, and some of you have also warned me that last time they failed to come to the debate on the articles for which they have prepared themselves, because time has run out in Article 1 and then the debate has turned out too fast. So I propose that we stick to Article 134, not talk long and wide and move slowly to the amendments. Because otherwise, we'll just be shuddering the amendments, and I don't think that's going to be the best thing or that's going to bring anything to the quality of the debate on the law. Mr. Minister has the floor as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I would add some important information because the set of measures in the CAP8 is, in addition to what we have already stressed with measures to help the labour market, the economy, vulnerable groups, aimed at a very important work by the social protection institution. To avoid being left alone again only in some sense of how Minister Brickler King slept with the team in the summer. I don't know if I can afford this, but in a famous Slovenian film, one activist, Vanč, responds very succulently. I think those of you who know the movie My Dad, the socialist ball, will know what I'm talking about. I can tell you that the team burns down and the teams at home burn out for the elderly, and they're still feeling the consequences. And I don't allow it as a minister who's here to represent all these caregivers, especially women, women, mothers who work in nursing homes to get bored. In recent packages, the IMF has provided €26 million for additional employment in social security institutions, which have been abandoned for decades, we in Koroška say abandoned by God. We have set up means for the loss of income at home due to empty beds, reimbursements for compulsory protective equipment and also for the establishment of an external red zone and payment of allowances to employees. I will not forget on 13 March 2020, immediately after the transfer of business to the Ministry, when I received a call from the Director of the home of the older citizens of Metlik: the incursion of the virus, personal protective equipment, and not quite suitable for the red zone, for two days. In 2020, 2021, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, totalled €56 million. So that it's not just going to stay with the abstract number, there are measures. This is 65% under the public sector collective agreement and a risk allowance and specific burdens for public institutions, totaling 24 million. Supplement for work at risk of 65%, concessionaires 4 million. Helping relief workers at home is not a good million. Reimbursement for withdrawal to domestic supply of half a million. Coverage of revenue due to unscheduled capacity 1 million 400. The costs for employees who have carried out health activities in institutional protection providers are EUR 250 000. Staff allowances, private contractors EUR 176 000. Financing of additional staff in institutional protection providers for two years 4 million 300. That was already paid off. We're talking about things that have already been paid off. And this is very important, this item is very important, because the homes were completely undernourished. Of course, I am not saying that with intervention measures we have now resolved this for all eternity, but we have helped when it was most difficult, and in this way, just as the homes needed it most or most need it. How can you best help a tired, burnt-out team? By providing them with coworkers and burdening individuals. Staff allowance for work in grey and red zone 290 thousand. A month-long strategic supply of security equipment – not self-evident, March 13th was no more than a few days of security equipment in most homes – 1 million. Security equipment for workers in grey and red zone for basic and social care and disinfection 4 million 168 thousand. Coverage falls due to unscheduled capacity of 1 million 376 000. Reimbursement for withdrawal for domestic supply of $90,000. An allowance for work in risky situations of 11 million. The allowance for work in risky conditions concessionaires, here I speak both items for September-November, but earlier I said for March-May, i.e. a supplement for work in risky conditions for public institutions September-November 11 million 100 and an allowance for work in risky conditions concessionaires 2 million 871 thousand. This is just a few items that we have prepared for nursing homes to help them where they needed the most help, and they need this help. I can assure you that each of the directors and directors I ask about using these measures says very well. We're not going to solve all the problems, we're not going to, but for a home, six new personnel can mean a lot. It's priceless if they still have a problem with the virus. Not only money, but also incentives through the Employment Service of the Republic of Slovenia have helped to realise the first important steps in additional employment after 15 years in 10 months, 541 people have been employed in these 10 months with contracts of employment concluded, 116 are currently employed through public works, based on temporary and temporary work, 3 000 527 hours have been paid for in nursing homes, and 55 thousand 19 hours have been paid to students and students. These measures run, someone had to prepare them, someone had to coordinate them with the Community of Social Institutions, with all the operators, someone had to take care of the platform, and someone had to do so. These measures have concrete effects on the ground, and it is very difficult to accept the increased tone in the sense that we have slept all summer. Since the debate has also repeatedly highlighted how the Government shuts down economic companies, because it seems to it right, I would like to ask the representative, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, if you allow the honourable President to speak briefly about the reasons why some, in particular, service activities are closed by a government decision. If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u236	Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We're all tired, and probably not out of action, out of everything, out of the virus, out of everything that's happening to us. Definitely. However, these measures were necessary and are still necessary. If we look at how these infections are moving, we can see that they are still such that in the case of relaxed measures, the number of infected people increases, but only an increased number of infected people is not a problem, the problem is that a significant proportion of those infected and sick people then need hospital treatment, so is hospital treatment, including treatment in intensive units. No health system can withstand a single rapid increase. A key problem, the key purpose of all measures is to ensure that the health system is available to all those in need. The more we can stop the spread of these infections and reduce them, the easier the health system adapts. The health system, health workers, all who work in this are also tired, but they certainly believe that in a short period of time, mainly with the help of vaccines and vaccinations, things will be settled and gradually normalized. And this is the purpose of these measures – to last so long that vaccination will take place, but despite the epidemic, we will manage to such an extent that life will gradually return to approximately normal frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u239	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. T is already the fourth PKP prepared by the king among ministers Janez Cigler King with his team. I'm very proud of it because we do good for people. At the initiative of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, a single solidarity allowance will also be given to full-year students who were accidentally released in the previous PKP package. We also listened to Slovenian students with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia who are studying abroad and will also receive a single solidarity allowance of 150 euros. What I would like to stress in particular is this, and I am truly proud of it, and I am glad that we have listened to our weakest citizens, the disabled with the lowest income. They will also receive 150 Euros of allowances, those who receive benefits from work-related disability insurance and persons with disabilities under the law governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. Thank you very much and I am really glad that we are responding to the question of the left opposition by actions. At the Ministry of Labour, a lot of work and effort have been invested in subsidising minimum wages and decommissioning employers, and I am sure that I know the situation quite well. The State will allocate a 50-euro subsidy to employers for the salaries of those workers whose salaries are not paid in addition to the minimum wage. The Left voted against this proposal, and the Left is therefore against the aid for preserving jobs, and this was also confirmed yesterday in a vote on the Labour Committee, which is perfectly understandable. The Left for its existence in the National Assembly needs a patient, needs a poor person, needs a unemployed person, the Left needs one who has as little income as possible from work, because on them Members of the Left build their entire political path. And there is no worse problem for Levi than the King's provision of assistance to entrepreneurs, workers, students, students, disabled persons and others, with minimum wage for both workers and employers. When that happens, they lose their text in Levica and resort to prosecution. They dare to accuse themselves, even though Miha Kordiš is from his permanent address to Šubičeva 4, where the National Assembly is only 23 kilometers away and has applied for a state apartment. Full of mouths are you some fight against privileges [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u240	I suggest we stick to the law, Comrade Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u241	The Left says we help capitalists and all the rest of the untruths, and I have to respond to why they're wrong. What I have just said will continue to touch. I wanted to say that you're full of some kind of a fight against privilege, and you're looking out for all the benefits. If the country were run by the Levica, sooner than in five years, Slovenia would look exactly like this. [[shows the object]] . At the same time, I am very aware of the fact that some left-wing rhetoric that you're using will take hold of more today on the work committee, even today at this meeting of the National Assembly, this left-wing rhetoric, which is intonated by Miha Kordish. We have heard, and this saddens me very much: criminals in power, obnoxious, custodians, perpetrators, incompetent government. I'm just here to tell you how capable this government or this ministry is, so I don't agree with the claim that this government is incapable of giving money to capitalists. How many times have I heard that in the last few days? Even the sentence I heard on the committee yesterday, you lie, you steal, you eat fleas, we heard it all on the left side yesterday. Who will take you seriously, please? Your launch against the PKP package and the Minister of the King is the best evidence, and I firmly believe that we are on the right track and that we are doing well. Our rhetoric and, above all, our actions are, for example, quite different from this rhetoric. Three hundred thousand jobs kept in about 32 thousand companies. This is a fact and this is New Slovenia's policy, the policy of John the Brick King. Solidarity data for pensioners, for those who have the lowest pensions, increase the minimum wage, solidarity allowance for families, solidarity allowance for newborns, as well as solidarity allowance for students, students, solidarity allowance for disabled persons, persons with special needs. I have also heard some readings about unemployment today, and I would also like to show that you will understand better. Here are the results. [[shows the object]] , in addition to Germany, under the European average, as far as unemployment is concerned, we are next to Germany. And if Minister Janez Cigler King had not taken steps to preserve all these jobs, 300,000 jobs in 32 thousand companies, they would have been where Greece is – the most unemployed would have been. This government is working, and here's a visual proof of it. Take a good look. These are all our actions, and we answer all your questions with action. Left also troubles that the measures have given employers much to give to entrepreneurs, as capitalists themselves say. Who's even a capitalist in this country, I'm asking you. In Slovenia there are 205,000 companies, of which 95 % are micro enterprises; in Slovenia there are 105 000 espions. 105 thousand espionage. So who are the evil capitalists? Is it possible that this is a neighbor who deals with design and computing? Is it possible that this is a cousin who owns a bar that has two working waitresses? Is it possible that this is a friend who is a mechanic? Or perhaps even a acquaintance who has a business and has 10 employees, ulcers on his stomach and sleepless nights when he wonders how he will pay his contributions, how will he pay his employees? Who is this capitalist? Perhaps the so-called capital, which created billions of profits in Slovenia last year and practically completely reinvested in research and development, in new jobs? Who are we fighting? Who are we protecting in this country? To whom do we separate, and to whom do we demonize? Employers are not evil capitalists, they are our neighbours, friends, relatives, acquaintances, they are one of us like all other citizens. And they're not enemies from outside. There is no hostility between work and capital, this controversy only works in Levica, without it you have no political story. On this controversy, build your political existence. So the Left creates some kind of conflict, and we create cooperation. The government does not help capital, but helps businesses and thus helps workers as well. The government helps a man. The government helps the person to the best of his ability, and it is very successful. The numbers don't lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u242	Procedurally, Comrade Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u243	President, thank you very much. I mean, this was for the goat now, well, I'm sorry. My procedural proposal will be very clear. As did your fellow Member, the leader of the same parliamentary group, NSI, you warned him to stick to the subject at the beginning. This is a topic that the Member of Parliament did not adhere to. He talks about all matters, he deals with Members, with Members of Parliament, he throws everything in the same basket. Please let us clear these matters once and for all and let the Member resolve problems with a particular parliamentary group beyond this and not all of them. Second thing. What the Member states is simply not true. There's always talk about keeping jobs. It's not true, it's a current maintenance, it's a coma that's going to break as soon as you stop taking measures. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u244	Comrade Prebil, this is not a procedural proposal, this is a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u245	My procedural proposal, Your Honor, remind your colleague to close the matter. We've been talking for six hours, mostly members of the coalition, about things that have nothing to do with today's session. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Your first piece was partly justified. Once again, I appeal, we adhere to this rule to discuss articles and amendments. If no one would mind, I suggest we move away from Article 1. [[No, no, ……]] Okay. We're closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it under Article 5? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7, which is the amendment to the title of Title 7 of Part Two and Article 16. Since the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI to chapter 7 of Part Two and Article 16 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore give the title to the debate of the seventh chapter of Part Two and Article 16 and the two amendments to the SDS, SMC and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendment of the members of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups was tabled by Article 21. Since the amendment has been tabled in contravention of Article 135, paragraph 2, in conjunction with Article 129, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, we shall neither discuss nor vote on it. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. There's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI sent groups, the amendment of the LMŠ sent group and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SD and SAB groups of Members and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Colleague Bojana Muršič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u247	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Finally, we have moved on from Article 1 to Article 1. But I have to say, I'm a little confused because we haven't had the amendment review yet. He's not on the e-club yet, and I've got a little bit of a problem. But despite the fact that we are talking about Article 27, I would like to say that we are proposing the Social Democrats and the SAB, we are proposing an amendment to set a threshold for subsidising wage increases. For it does not seem right for us that all employers should be able to request a subsidy to raise the minimum wage, even though this raise could be covered from their own savings. For we are all aware that the money we give will be very much needed later. Discussions today have repeatedly said how many jobs we have kept. I must say that I am pleased that we have preserved them with all these measures, but I will be even more pleased if the situation is the same next year, I will say, pink as it appears today. I have to say, it seems to me that I'm in the middle of discussions when I've been listening to what I've been getting sugar, how much good has been done. And yes, it was good, but not like that! We need to know that this bag of ours has our budget at the bottom. We are simply not aware of this, so it is necessary, at least in our opinion, not to get, without any restrictions, the fixing of subsidies to raise minimum wages for all. Social Democrats and the SAB propose a limit to subsidise the raising of minimum wages to those who do not exceed 30 000 euros per employee. It is said that this subsidy will benefit those companies that will really need it, not those that could cover this withdrawal from their own resources. At the latest rise in 2009, when this took place at a time of great economic uncertainty, which we all recall strongly, a transitional period was also introduced, which was not general and could indeed only be imposed by employers with difficulties in their business. That is why it is all the more important that we think in this direction today. We believe that, in view of all other aid measures, Social Democrats and the SAB, it is reasonable to focus this measure where what we are talking about could lead to abandonment. Therefore, we propose that the subsidy be granted only to those companies which currently generate low added value to the employee and therefore the reason for the difficulty in paying the minimum wage is in their business model, which creates a lower added value. However, companies with high added value should certainly not be entitled to such aid in our view. And since the Law-Legal Service yesterday or today has also warned us that, in fact, in our proposal, there was a missing number to which this restriction would apply, we have supplemented this amendment to also set the limit of this subsidy at EUR 300,000, which is to be seen in 2019. Thus, the minimum wage subsidy would only be subsidised to those companies where the business model is in fact so that the rise in the minimum wage would make their business more difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Since the amendments of SDS, SMC and NSI to Chapter 10 of Part Three and Article 33a are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore give the title of Article 10 of Part Three and Article 33a and the two amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the SAB, SD and Levica groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Colleague Bojana Mursic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. The purpose of this amendment is to pursue the purpose of the law, and it is said to maintain jobs again. The employer undertakes that workers for whom he will receive an 80 % subsidy for the posting on hold will not simply be dismissed during or after the end of the application of this measure. This is extremely important for us because we do not want to subsidise ourselves – the measure is essentially job conservation and then it would simply result in jobs being lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 55a and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendment of the members of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups was tabled under the heading of Chapter 7 of Part Four. Since the amendment has been tabled in contravention of the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will neither discuss nor vote on it. I am putting to the debate Article 56 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB. A colleague of Jerca Korča first, then a colleague of Muršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u251	Thank you, President. Again and again, I call for this area to be settled. The government has systematically neglected young people – twice as much as 150 euros arbitrarily to all. In this amendment, we are talking about 150,000 students and students, of whom 100,000 were working through the student service, 20,000 were working for the purpose of being able to stay and study, it was about their survival. The decline in student labour was 90% in the first wave, 60% in the second wave. It is inappropriate for such ignorance to approach this social group, which has been severely affected. Unfortunately, we could go a little bit wider to see why we have such a scholarship policy that a young person has to work during the study and, on the other hand, we gain some experience and values and more and create a separate path. It is not appropriate, however, for us to leave these young ones to ourselves or ignore them completely when we are in the situation we are in. Once again, these young people will still be the future that will inherit debts and other things that have accumulated during the epidemic. One way or another, I think that this social group has suffered a shortage or has a difficult period because it has been deprived of a period in which you are also associated in different ways, perhaps you are going to a concert and so on, and these activities are logically closed by the virus. This part is already difficult enough for us to act ignorantly on the other hand in this economic field, and it pushes many of them into very severe distress. And yes, there's an intergenerational conflict in the economic field, and that's not right. Through virtually all packages we try to bring to the table an amendment that would save this part, namely, students who worked through the student service in order to be recalculated for a comparative period of time, i.e. the work they were doing is reimbursed by the coalition or by most unfortunately ignored. And it's not right. I think it's imperative that at least in some way we cover this loss that these young people have had. There has been a lot of talk about unemployment today about how we are very good at some comparable European criterion. It is true that we also have a lot of jobs frozen by waiting for work. To wait for work, however, we will only see what it brings when this measure is defrosted and what a wave will push into the Employment Service. So it's hard to talk now about whether this data is relevant or not. It is, however, a fact that unemployment has increased among young people up to 25 years of age. Last year it was 8.3%, the data is now 14.6%, and here we are above the European average. A very stepmotherly government treats young people and this is not a good trip. Two times after 150 euros, one student was super cool, and I got something else for it, because it was in a different social situation, and someone who was living with the student work, and there really was a lot of it in our society, and that twice over 150 euros meant a kind of ridicule and a totally inappropriate amount. And the question of what stories are really hiding behind these individuals. Leaving young people in this way and ignoring them is definitely not a good journey for any society. The minister, if he listens to me, will probably say I'm a bit of a parrot, but this subject really seems very important to me to address. When they tell us how aggressive we are in the opposition – I never want the opposition, coalition and the National Assembly to become a building of one mind, nod and silence. It is precisely the charm of democracy that we face the view that we say that the opposition controls what the Government is doing, draws attention to the unacceptable practices of the Government, the Minister-designate, and that it is of course bringing amendments with which it draws attention to topics systematically omitted by the Government. The amendment to Article 56 is one of those that covers at least a small social group, which you systematically miss without explaining why such a decision or what it is not in any of the packages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u252	Thank you very much. The word is Bojana Muršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u253	Thank you very much again for your word. The government has consistently said that anti-korona packages have touched all citizens and citizens. And indeed, she touched the disabled, the pensioners, the workers, the students, some students, not all of them, but we forget or forget the group of those who really did not get anything in any of these packages and are among the most socially vulnerable groups of people or citizens and citizens. Why am I talking about this? While the Minister will say that I am repeating it most likely already, I don't know, for the third time or for the fourth time, but we have been approached by a number of citizens and citizens who rightly believe that they have been forgotten in the division of the solidarity allowance, but face similar social pressures as the other groups that have received this supplement. Personally, I feel that even with worse conditions or even greater social pressures. I am talking about groups of unemployed persons who have been registered at the Employment Service and are waiting for their retirement to take place for a few months or maybe a year or two to retire. Because of their age, it is very difficult for them to find employment, for we know how much money is paid to these recipients, or some even receive nothing. Only rare employers choose to employ such an unemployed person. Otherwise, if only possible, they are included in active employment policy measures, but believe me, those who are recipients of monetary compensation or unemployed persons without all the benefits in the institution and who have worked 35, 36, 38 years behind the tape can no longer perform any physical work. We therefore refer to this amendment to include older unemployed persons, who are as vulnerable as pensioners, who have received this solidarity allowance twice. For the record, I don't dispute that at all, but these recipients of the cash refund at the Employment Office are getting between 280 and 450 maybe a little more money, unemployment benefits. Prague was 500 euros in pensioners and received 300 euros in solidarity allowance, and we propose 150 euros in this proposal. I believe that, Minister, you are listening well, and in so far as I doubt it will happen that today the coalition would oppose this amendment – given what was said at that time, I believe that you understand me, which group of people I am talking about, older people over 55, we have drawn the border in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, which determines when an older worker and his complementary working or retirement age are counted. These are particularly vulnerable groups. One group of people is said to be at least 55 years old, some of which do not receive monetary compensation because their partner receives only and only a few euros more than that minimum living price, or they receive a cash compensation for unemployment of up to EUR 500 per month. In the opposition, we propose that these most vulnerable groups also be allowed a 150-euro solidarity allowance so that they do not feel second-rate or even inferior citizens and citizens, because they do not already have the euro in their pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in 30 minutes in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Ending this agenda item [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Gradually, Comrade Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u255	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know if that's possible, but I know it's a business arrangement. Since we've all been here for a few hours, I suggest if this is a chance to stop the meeting in 15 minutes and continue after 15 minutes. Let's not stick to those 30 minutes if we don't have to. Let's be a little bit of a life sometimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u256	I hereby adjourn the session, which will be resumed by the vote at 23.25 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 22.54 and resumed at 23.25.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u257	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on additional measures to mitigate the consequences of COVID-19 in the context of the urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 2. 2. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI to Article 1. We're voting. Breakup. Please state your explanations of vote a little louder. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Dejan Židan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I held my hand. I'll hold her like this later. [[shows with gesture]] If that's what matters. We have achieved something on the committee itself. At least we have achieved to give university space some autonomy that will be safe from the diversionary attacks of this particular government, which unfortunately we have in Slovenia right now. That is why, of course, we will not back up our return today because we believe that the university space needs to be left alone. We do not want the twitters to guess whether the correct proportion of socialists is 25, 35 or 45%, we want the university space to hold this debate, and once it is done – and this debate cannot be done through Twitter – to come with its proposal, then the society is in a position to accept the proposal. That is why we are opposed to the fact that what we achieved yesterday on the committee in charge today is changing again and, in fact, another blow to the university space. And if, respected and respected, you have read the petition that we received today from all possible professors, professors, people who care, and, in fact, if we listen to ourselves – what is important to the Social Democrats? We keep saying that we want to be a knowledge society, we keep saying that we want to be a more innovative society, we keep saying that the welfare state will be easier if we have a higher added value – none of this will work if we don't listen to the university space. What we now want to eliminate is one of the rare successes of yesterday's debate – that we have recognised the university's autonomy. We cannot accept this from the Social Democrats and we will vote against it. Also because — I don’t know what else you were doing — we read all the letters we received today. And I must say that if the university space reacts within 24 hours by having more than 10,000 eminent signatories, it is our job, at least the Social Democrats, to listen to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 37. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 5. Comrade Primož Siter's explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The epidemic has escaped with the exercise and the last line of defense, the one who still lives in the bright public health struggles to survive many of us are the nurses. The amendment to Article 5 improves their position or evaluation of their hard work. The main nurses in health and social welfare institutions who hold the position of assistant director in health care institutions, especially during the epidemic, are forced to work in direct contact with patients and guards because of their staff shortage. They are carriers of the organisation of health and social welfare in institutions. As it is said, however, because of the manoeuvring, human resources shortages and other human resources malnutrition, they are often forced to do overtime work that is significantly above theirs by the law of a certain limit. It is therefore entirely unreasonable that, in accordance with the current legislation, they are entitled to an allowance for work in a risky situation only for half the hours of their other regular working time, and not for the rest of the hours they spend in the workplace. It is an extremely difficult and difficult work, both contact with infected patients and the organisation of work, so that the health sector and patients or infected patients survive this epidemic. It is only logical that their work is fully evaluated, that they are offered an allowance to work in these difficult situations in full, i.e. for all regular working hours and also working hours over their full-time working hours. So not only for half of the legal specified half of their working time paid an allowance, but for actually all the hours that nurses in health and social services do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI to chapter seven of Part Two. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 16 becomes irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. Comrade Duck on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. As you already said, the articles are connected. If something has to be clear to us now after almost a year and for the good 10 months of this government, it should be clear to us that we will not solve this epidemic, which has plagued us pandemicly, with some kind of threat, with always some obsession with violations, with some line that the President of the Government has shown, the irrevocably indisputable Prime Minister Hojs, the Krek-Kacin couple, in short some crime, we will punish you, and we will soon come into a state that no one will be born yet, and will be punished because they are not being fed in the way of an epidemic. In particular, we cannot go the way the Government has intended in this PKP, as the Legislative and Legal Service has made very clear this. No matter what, I'd like some kind of mag right now. Grimes threw someone out of this job, and you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, haven't responded to that. NIJ will write something, and the Ministry will adopt an act, and then you will punish us a little more than criminally. Now, let's get this over with. Social Democrats, of course, do not support such policies. You know, after all, in those European countries that are successfully dealing with the epidemic, in particular the Scandinavian, they are based on trust between citizens and citizens and the government, and it is probably not a coincidence that governments run social democrats there. We will therefore, of course, vote against such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u263	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u264	Of course, we will vote against it in Levica. Yesterday, we also made a clear argument on the committee. Between 4,000 and 100,000 penalties are to be granted to legal persons who do not adhere to certain rules that have not yet been adopted at all. These rules will be laid down by the Minister of Health, who is now John Janša himself in one person. We can't impose penalties for crimes we don't know when they will when they will, if they will. And once again, between 4 thousand and 100,000 euros in fines for an irregular offence — which person in his right mind can support this? Let us remember years ago when people moved from apartments and homes for 100 or 150 euros. Now that someone has been punished, even though a legal person – but legal persons are behind people when you talk to entrepreneurs you like only on paper – for 100,000 euros many will lose their home. Who else can pay the penalty of 100,000 euros, please? Here I thought of the cableway or ski resort Bloodsucker, when John Janša versus John Janša was very unhappy because it worked. Well, a legal person like that would get 100,000 euros in fines. Who in this country is able to pay 100,000 euros in fines arbitrarily after the decision of John Janša, without it being his definitive end, the end of his property, his life, his descendants and everything? In Levi, however, we believe that this is one of the most absurd articles of this law, which we cannot support in any way. As mentioned earlier, however, we will not fight the epidemic with penalties simply by understanding and cooperation, which some coalition Members like to talk about so much. But these numbers are horrifying. Even so, our inhabitants receive abnormally high penalties for abnormally absurd and aboriginal offences, eating burek and so on. So this, from 4,000 to 100,000 euros in fines – please. Who fell on his head here? We are absolutely opposed to this in the Levica and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. Mag. A Jew in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u266	Thank you, Mr. President. This is a typical question of what the Member should do if he receives an amendment, for which the Legal and Legal Service explains quite well why he is likely to be unconstitutional. Of course, we cannot really vote for this, but you will still vote for it today. I am quite sure that in a few weeks, months from now, none of those who vote for today will be ashamed when the Constitutional Court stops all of this. Now imagine, I'll tell you a practical case that I've been thinking about. Today we have before us, let us say that we are talking about traffic offences and there is a proposal by the Government that we should accept, as some Bianca, that we will punish a citizen for 200 000 euros if he drives against a programme that is not even accepted by the Government, but by the Auto-Moto Association of Slovenia. It's about the same here. When we talked to the committee about this programme, we finally know that this is the NIJ programme. Very kind of you to say by the Government, here we have in mind mainly vaccination, then of course I translate it immediately, probably what is happening at some point, skipping species. I understand, but why don't you write it like that? Then you have to write it like that, not a blank bill, a big penalty if you're going to work against the AMZS or NIJS. This is simply not a legal state. We cannot lay down penalties for something we do not even know the form of the offence. Worse than that, it would be just to write: We allow the government to accept for itself the amount of punishment for an offence determined by the chimney company. So there's someone out there who can't even issue a legal act. Again, I would like to point out what I am asking myself: why is there even an amendment before us that is quite clear that it is unconstitutional, because that is what Law-Legal Service says, but I am not going to cancel, but I am going to listen to it? I will therefore vote against it. I have no right to ask the others, but I will vote double against it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u267	Thank you very much. My friend Starovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u268	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Taking into account the opinion of our Legislative and Legal Service, which it gave to the original Article 16, the deletion of which was proposed by the SAB with the amendment – adopted unanimously on the Committee – the new proposal is still not okay. In fact, the Offences Act provides that an offence which violates the law, the government regulation or the decision of a self-governing local community is an offence. So the offence can by no means be an act that violates a programme determined by a minister. No doubt it is. This is a violation of the principle of legality set out in Article 28 of the Constitution. Infringements must be predetermined, defined. This is important to prevent arbitrariness in the offence, from Magna Carta forward, all constitutions, laws in newer, in modern society, all designed to protect citizens, freedom, dignity of people against the will of power. This provision lays down the will of the authorities. I would say something else, just like that, let's be Democrats, there is no democracy without a rule of law, there is no democracy. We are now going in this direction, that if we confirm this, if we accept it, there is no rule of law, there is no democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u270	I did not really pay any attention to this provision of the PKP8 until yesterday, when PKP8 went through the Committee for Work in the National Assembly. Not at the outset when the article opened, however, but only after the government's representatives answered the questions raised by other opposition colleagues and colleagues. From the answers that the Government has given, why it expects up to 100,000 euros in fines, I really haven't been able to create a picture of why it's going at all. Under the line, as far as I understand – because, I repeat, the government side has not really explained anything – it is the following. NIJ in conjunction with the Ministry of Health would draw up a programme, draw up an act if there is a violation of this act, can be fined up to €100,000 for the violator of this act. If I translate you into specific names and surnames: Milan Krek at the head of the NIJZ and Janez Janša at the head of the Ministry of Health will create a program and an act, and then anyone who does not respect it, whatever they write in there, will put an account for 100,000 euros. In view of all that we have already seen under the government of Janez Janša, this is not even a fantastic scenario, but probably the next step to the 400-euro stand that everyone who receives Janez Janša is not in the year. Of course, I will vote against such penile provisions, which only violently strengthen the government of Janez Janša over the country and do not contribute in any way to the fight against the epidemic. Again and again in PKP8 another plant.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. I'll support the amendment. Otherwise, we all agreed on a committee yesterday that the amendment of the opposition should be supported, that the article should remain open and that the Ministry of Health should also prepare it much more concrete and what it should be, with the right references, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. This supplement is now as well as agreed, and it also states that it relates to vaccination during the time of the declared epidemic of communicable diseases, and not to what Mr Židan had previously explained about all other laws, which was discussed yesterday. It is said that this article was indeterminate yesterday, but is now complementary, but there was no talk of any amount of punishment, since this article is open, this indent is added and the same sentence is already applicable for employers who do not allow medical examinations. Thus, penalties and several other situations are listed, which may result in the punishment of legal persons. That's what I'm pointing out. It's about legal persons, not natural persons. The article is now prepared as agreed yesterday, and I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u274	Thank you very much. This supplement does not respond to concerns; it still relates to a non-existent programme. What do we do with this article, respected and respected? We impose some punishment for something that doesn't even exist yet, which is not defined, which means we're giving a blank opinion to someone that the post-festum, when this is legal, will impose these draconian penalties. Do you realize what that means? This is actually some – do you understand? – builder of facade democracy. Unfortunately, our country – this is a living farce – is turning into a facade democracy, a Phantom program that is not yet in existence, and we will already know how much punishment there will be for it. Are you aware? Has anything like this ever happened in this country, in the history of this country? And you put that in intervention legislation and again, a referendum on that is not possible. That's crazy. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, but this is too much. From package to package, we face incredible rats, incredible ideas about how to control and increase the repression of citizens and citizens as much as possible. This, this was really going over there. That went a long way beyond that. I'm really asking you, and I urge you to be aware of why we're all here. Don't make fun of me, dear fellow Pojbič, but listen to the content. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u275	Colleague Sukič, it's an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u276	I will vote absolutely against it. Absolutely against. It's a grave violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u277	Comrade German, calm down, please. Let's just calm down, please. Procedural proposal, colleague Muršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're sitting here today. I don't know how many hours. Some of us sat here until the second hour of the morning on the working body, including Mr Pojbič. Today I would really ask, and I am tired myself, but I would really like you as chairman to ensure order in the Chamber. It is a very late hour, let us not allow ourselves when the interpreter explains his voice – yes, colleague Pojbič is hiding again, speaking again, and these are the actions that do not belong to the National Assembly. We always listen, so please, look around the hall, follow us, take care of order and peace to bring this meeting to an end, just as it is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u279	Gradually, colleague Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u280	Dear President! Please warn Comrade Pojbich. It bothered me when I was discussing it, and the hiding and packing bothered me. Please note inappropriate behavior, as you warn us when we behave improperly. Please have the same vats for everyone, and please warn me, because it's really disturbing, you're talking and someone's hiding you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u281	My colleague Sukič, I understand your procedural proposal. Please do not repeat procedural proposals. Comrade Pojbich, please calm down. I heard you talking before, looking back, talking out loud. Please, there's some talking on your side too, if you have to say anything, please, whisper, don't disturb others. Please stick to the rules in explanation of vote to state your arguments, not to persuade others how to vote. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment. Yesterday we discussed more than two hours and the ministry got involved in the word, both ministries, so it seems right for us to vote on the parent's working body as an amendment to delete this, I will say, a planter who introduces himself as a new offence that is not specifically defined. The legislative and legal service said that certain specific matters and a specific programme should be defined. Otherwise, this amendment has been slightly corrected, but we still consider it unconstitutional, against Article 28 of the Constitution, so I will vote against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u283	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. I will explain as a Christian Democrat and I don't mind if someone with all four or five limbs shows me that I'm crazy. In Christendom, we know what original sin is, whether you accept it or not in secular society, at least for the time being. And you're going beyond that. You actually say: legal entity, you have original sin, I, Janez Janša, and with the help of Krek, I will determine what this original sin is. We don't even buy this in Christianity, let alone in constitutional parliamentary democracy. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 37. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 16. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 38. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 24. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 26 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments of the SDS, SMC and NSI and the amendments of the LMŠ Group to the same Article 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u286	In cooperation with the government of Marjana Šarca, Levica was able to amend, correct and improve the Minimum Wages Act with the start of this mandate. All additives have been excluded from the definition of minimum wage. Labour salaries, especially for older workers, have therefore risen significantly, at least €60, and with the exception of allowances, some workers have also been paid up to over 100 euros. This law also included a provision that in future coordination minimum wages should move 20% above the minimum cost of living. It is said that people who receive minimally do not live in poverty, at least according to the numbers that we have available to exceed at least 20% of the threshold. And Janez Janša's government came and got stuck. It got stuck in social dialogue, stuck in the Ministry of Labour's readiness to allow workers a fair raise, of course from employers' pockets, where they work and where they create value. That is why the Government has entered two articles in the PKP8. In this specific article, employers who pay the minimum wage shall be rewarded with cuts in their contributions. But notice, these are contributions belonging to workers belonging to them collectively, filling the pension box for the safe age and filling the health treasury that finances material and services in the Slovenian health system. Of course, in the sector, through the impoverishment of these two cash registers, there will be considerable damage to contributions, while the country is heavily indebted and is using these funds more or less to combat the covida-19 epidemic. This is the situation in which the government of Janez Janša decided to reduce the income to the health care facility, which covers hospitals that cover the salaries of all these employees, whom government officials like to congratulate and thank them and pay them more slowly. Of course, we will vote against this in Levica, both in terms of the poverty of the public health system and the risk of privatising the public health system it opens, as well as the reason that cutting contributions to employers, to those who pay minimum wages, is a policy of promoting low-skilled jobs instead of the concluded development economy they would need.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u287	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 53. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 26 under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to the same Article under number 3 shall become irrelevant. My colleague, Andre Zabret, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. By Article 26, we have tabled an amendment to the LMŠ, which is now being amended in writing, so that the text will be in line with the proposal of the Legal and Legislative Service on a specific date of validity. But we don't want the article to change more than that. In fact, yesterday we tabled an amendment to the LMŠ to the Labour Committee, which was adopted, which ensured that the espies would receive the same burden as the other employers. Due to the epidemic and raise the minimum wage from 1. 1. 2021 The government proposed subsidising the minimum wage in a way that would be the lowest basis for paying contributions in the amount of the minimum wage fixed by the Minister at EUR 1 000 24 and not the average wage of EUR 843 for 2020. However, this minimum basis for the payment of contributions from the minimum wage applies only to employees but not to the contributions of independent entrepreneurs. This means that self-employed people will pay a minimum of 240 euros per year on average. In order not to do so, we also added Article 145 to the amendment, where the self-employed will also pay minimum contributions from the minimum wage and not 60 % of the average wage. At the same time, it means a lower payment of contributions from the minimum wage and a lower pension base, which will result in lower pensions for employees for this period in the future. In order not to do so, we also proposed in the amendment that this difference between contributions from the minimum wage and average wages for the period July to December 2021 be covered by the budget. This will ensure that the employees and independent entrepreneurs, to whom the Government in this PKP has again forgotten, who cannot work or work with reduced scope due to the government's decision, will not be deprived when they retire and thus receive lower pensions. We will therefore vote against this amendment in the LMŠ and support our amendment to Article 26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u289	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 35. (The vote was 46.)(against 35.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS, SMC and NSI sent groups to Article 26 under Article 2 has been adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ Group to the same Article under Article 3 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 27 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SD and SAB to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. Comrade Miha Kordish in the name of the messenger.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u290	For employers who pay a minimum wage, which barely raises workers over the threshold of poverty and survival, the cut in contributions to the pension and health allowance was not the only reward and the only gift in the CAP8. At the same time, minimum wage payers will be financed by the Government EUR 50 per month for each salary paid from the state budget. It's from our common malha. While the State is heavily indebted to the financing of measures to combat the epidemic and to any other part of it at this very moment. Watch out for this, this subsidy, 50 euros a month for every minimum wage, nor is it related to how well-standing a company is, whether payment of wages can afford or cannot afford it, whether it has gone into trouble or not. What about those companies that in the covida-19 epidemic have expanded their scope of business and doubled their profits? For example, some shipping services. All will receive these 50 euros a month non-discriminatoryly for each salary paid out of our total budget money, whether they need it or not. It is not surprising that in recent debates about minimum wage, a debate has therefore been launched within the Economic Chamber itself among the individual capital sectors. There are employers who pay higher wages, who run more development-oriented companies that don't bet on maiming the labour force, but on creativity and perpetuity. This is, of course, in the interest of any other low-performance companies or employers who do not want to pay a minimum wage, which is too high for them, do not constitute unfair competition. With the policy of additional subsidising the payment of minimum wages, the whole economy is being pushed in a non-productive direction. We are working to make sure that we do not become the second Switzerland, but that we will become the second China of the Philippines. This certainly isn't the way to the future. And this absurdity. See what will and will not be paid to employers after this measure. Those who pay the minimum wage will receive these 50 Euros of a bonus, a prize, social tourism in fact, as they would say in the coalition. The one who pays better wages or only one euro above the minimum wage will get nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. My colleague Natasha Sukić in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u292	Thank you very much. In my own name. I'm just going to say what I personally think is a very big problem. This measure somehow encourages employers to pay an exact minimum wage and then get these 50 euros, which they might add as a bonus to the worker, but the pension base will come from a minimum wage. This is literally an incentive, as it is said, if plus one euro or plus 10 euros or plus 100 euros, this is no longer the case. It's very simple. With this, the well-respected minister is, unfortunately, encouraged to start showing that they are paying a minimum wage, which means a lower pension base. That's the problem. That's why, of course, I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u294	Thank you. This article also promotes presentationism, for the basis is one that is your basis if you accidentally go to a hospital. With this measure, it simply encourages the Government of Smaller Wages. As we said, if the employer pays 1 euro over minimum personal income, he is not entitled to EUR 50 of the subsidy, which is a completely flawed measure. Here come people sick, infected, because they can't afford to be at home with the base they have. Here, however, I have to say that it doesn't really matter to the Government how much it hurts money for measures, because for self-employed people there is always a problem, but for people on a minimum, we don't even have an open article that tells us that religious employees get 100% of the average wage, and all espouses are 60% of the minimum. Not that, I stress, they are not employees, because an employee goes to work, pays, works, and pays taxes. Religious employees are not employees, but they are employed in the richest institution in the world. And this government gives them very little, and the workers who do what is right, who disable the hospital, disable the normal pension, and make normal life impossible. Completely unacceptable measures and, of course, I will support our amendment to delete at least this 27th article, which is open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mia Kordish in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very often in Levica, as our political priority, we draw attention to the standard of living of the working class. What injustices they suffer, what legislation we must adopt in order to make them feel better. And we are always faced with an argument, czech, her, you in Levica, you socialists see only some bad employers, but there are also good employers. Yes, indeed, there are more development-oriented companies, there are companies that pay wages higher than the minimum. These are promising companies. However, there are also companies that do not pay decent wages, but pay the minimum wages on all cruises, which could also pay higher wages. Here they came to the moment of the decision, on what development path to walk in the situation of the covida-19 epidemic. And it happened – what? These good employers, whom the government of John Janša so fondly refers to, moved away at the first opportunity. Their unfair competition, which pays lower wages and the minimum wage, grants a subsidy of EUR 50 per month for the salary paid out of our common small state budget, to which we tax all citizens and citizens, including the economy. This is a social dumping strategy, a deliberate strategy for lowering wages that drives us into a development that leads us paradoxically into underdevelopment. We have seen this development in neighbouring Hungary in the economic field, and it has also spilled into political territory. The free market obviously applies to all but the largest capitalists alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u297	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 49. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and SAB's parliamentary groups to Article 27(2). Mag. Mr Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u298	Thank you, President, for your word. The Group of Members will vote in favour of its own amendment. This is because, honourable Members, we are aware that the 23 million we share today through this law is not money coming from the pockets of ministers and ministers of the Slovenian Government or Members or Members of the coalition. They are not generous enough to give us this out of love for their citizens. Nor is it money that the country has somewhere in its treasury, where it has spiders, holes and nets, empty, or flies, because we have a few billion deficits. This is not money that some other countries are lucky to be lying on oil, gas fields, or gold fields. I'm quite sure, too, at least this side of Parliament [[shows with gesture]] He doesn't believe in good Aunt Merkel or good Uncle Macron, who will give it to us because they won't. This is money, and we will therefore vote against what we borrow from our children and also from our grandchildren. Now imagine, I read – I don't know if the operation has already been performed – that the country is happily in charge for 60 years. It's terrible for me. Do you know what that means? I, now 53 years old when I add 60 years of age, probably won't be alive. If he's lucky, and I really want him, then my kids will be alive, and if I'm lucky, now I don't have them, including my grandchildren. These are the people who will then pay for what we share today. These are the people who are going to pay for this, what we share today. We don't share the money that's in the pile, we don't share the money that the government has in the pocket or the MPs in the coalition in the pocket, we share something that we don't have, and we're going to have to create our children. And that's why it's only right that we share what's necessary. Sharing what is essential has some purpose. Now look at the minimum wage. We also have companies in Slovenia that are difficult for them, which have low added value. I do not want them to lose their jobs, and therefore we propose that we help these companies to make a solidarity contribution to help them raise their minimum wage. But, respected and respected, we also have companies that have an added value of 100,000 per employee, why do you want to give money to my grandchildren to companies that have 100 000 euro added value to an employee and don't need it? We therefore propose that the measure be targeted. Let's give money to those who need it, because, once again, let's be aware that we're giving money that's not ours, we don't have that money. We may look good today because we share money there, there and there, but it's not our money. This is the money of our children and our grandchildren. That is why I suggest that we be rational in the sharing of money. Let's give money to those who need it, not to those who don't need it. This is why the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Social Democrats and the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u299	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to chapter 10 of Part Three. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 33a becomes irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u300	For a schooling youth in this country, it is very traumatic for almost a year. Covida-19 epidemic, schools are closed, secondary schools are closed when of course they are. Sometimes they are not, but slightly dependent, you ask the president of the government, the health minister, the government Twitter or the personal Twitter president of the government of Janez Janša. And as if for senior students this stress and trauma, the lost year in which they had not learned anything, would not be enough, the government of Janez Janša decided to make their lives worse by interfering with the enrolled places in colleges. According to the New World Translation, John Janša will clearly prescribe personally what young people in this country will be able to study and what they will not be allowed to do. It's about some guidelines he came up with on his own. This is, of course, a serious intervention in freedom of choice of education. It is precisely higher education that justifies its mission to enable each individual in Slovenian society to develop their potentials, build their happiness and their future. No, it's not, it's Janez Janša's decision now. Of course, we intervened on yesterday's committee, tabled an amendment to suspend the government's competence to intervene in admission places in colleges. This is the darkness and matter that must be left to the universities themselves, as it was at the beginning. This is only appropriate for society in the 21st century. Not that today’s students, future students, are further heated by stress, do not know what will happen to their future, do not know where they will fit in and where they will not laugh. The content of what I am just explaining is included in Article 33.a. But this Article 33a is within the chapter with its address in PKP8, where the address also needs to be corrected. That is why I am interpreting this content at this point and predicting that I will vote against this amendment, which destroys the achievements of yesterday's committee, which protects the freedom of education of current students and future students in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u301	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 38. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 33.a. Colleague Divojak Mirnik on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u302	Thank you for your word, Madam President. This amendment has proposed many different stakeholders, from universities to trade unions, youth organisations, professors. We got our e-mails dropped today, so to speak. After a miracle yesterday, this matter went through, but, of course, the coalition decided to erase the matter, because it obviously went through the wrong way yesterday. I sincerely hope this isn't the beginning of the end of public education. In fact, without knowledge, we will never advance as a society, the rest of us, and we will become ordinary sheep. In LMŠ, we want young people to think, we also want them to learn where they see their interests and, of course, where they see their future. From all the e-mails we received today from all the possible ones, from all the calls I received from at least the University of Maribor, we learned that the government coalition had already prevented employment on research projects, even where projects had already been acquired. And look at it a fraction, the Prime Minister of the Law, as in his custom is five before twelve, that it is necessary to stop the entries. Why? Because we have, he says, too many social records. But at the same time, private colleges can do it. The conclusion is, of course, very clear: in Slovenia we do not need private social colleges because it is already too public, so says the Prime Minister of the Government. And now I'm just waiting for the Minister of Education to abolish her job at the FDV, because it's too much anyway. Of course I'm a little sarcastic. We cannot support this amendment in LMŠ for a very simple reason – because the invitation to tender should have been out yesterday. And also because we cannot trust the Minister's words that the Government will give its consent to this call on Thursday. We will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Port of the Moon on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Of course, I will oppose this amendment because it is completely insane. We are here in front of a situation where universities and universities have prepared an invitation to enroll for new students, after Janez Janša personally concluded that this invitation should be stopped because we have too many sociologists and too few naturalists. And he said the following – that competing countries have a relationship between sociology and nature two to one in favour of nature, which is, of course, a complete lie and complete stupidity. Yesterday, Dnevnik conducted a study or showed European comparable data, which are the following. In Slovenia, 39% of students are enrolled in sociology, 41 in Germany, 39 in Austria, 48 in the UK. We have 37% of students enrolled in natural science, 35 in Germany, only 26. So, what the President of the Government said is total nonsense. However, the invitation to tender has been suspended, and now, apparently without any competence, or even an idea of what the study abroad looks like or what it should look like, will be decided on how the admission places will be allocated. So where did we come from?Oh, my God! We've come to a state where, sorry, universities have to collect petitions against some of the will of a government president. This amendment, which we adopted on the committee yesterday, is in this law in order to prevent those who know something about how studies are going on, from saying colleges and universities, a voice in how registration posts will be allocated. With today's voice, everyone in this room will show you how you think you should do it. Should experts do this to universities and colleges that, by the way, have collected 11,000 signatures with their petitions in support of our amendment and against what you want to reverse today, will you agree that, as in some France there in the 18th century, a solar king decides who will go to college? I mean, nice to meet you, please, no. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u306	Thank you for your word. We'll support the amendment. The government, which also provides a system of funding for higher education, will resolve the problem of consent and the publication of admission places in colleges. Today the matter has already gone through both competent committees in the Government and is scheduled for the government's meeting on Thursday. I would also like to say that with the list of places of registration prepared by the faculty, and of course they have their voice, as you said, the government is in fact only familiar and never changes it without the consent of the university. Today's over 300, probably even more, e-mails, petitions are completely unnecessary, and a really big political storm has arisen needlessly. It's totally politicized, which isn't okay, and it's really not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u307	Comrade Trček's explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. In any case, someone who in the 21st century divides into extravagant, proselytized sociologists versus others, is not for politics in a small congregation, not just for government management. If anything, in the 21st century, even if you listen to my associate about the Industrial Revolution 5.0, 7.2 or whatever, coming from a very good humanist subject, we have to make it possible to study where we can study if you want, and science and technology and social science together. I am an example of some sort of science-mathematic technique, which has become not as bad a social analyst as it is. The whole kind of self-thinking society has been doing this for 30 years. 25 years ago, Telenor was in his science research department with technicians, engineers over 40 sociologists, andragogs, musicians, all alive. That's why it's not as much in the bull as it is in Slovenia's Telekom, led by inconsiderate people. That's what this is about. And the end is to allow such literally developing idiots to decide our children and their future! That is why I will vote against it, and this is also the position of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u309	Comrade Runk, express yourselves with dignity. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Then I've got three more on my own. First my friend Kovacic, then Kordish and then Sukič. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] If there's so many of you, I'll set off the list. Wait a minute. Applications are under way. The first one has the word Dejan Jedhan. Please make it as quiet as possible for those who leave the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u310	Thank you, President, for allowing me to speak in two minutes. I'll vote against it myself. Probably a lot of people in this country, including in this House, were surprised when the Prime Minister of the Government began to tell on Twitter whether the relations of law or relationship are not real, so some very serious debate that should last for several months is to be discussed on Twitter. But then, interestingly, one thought that came to mind. You probably know that my basic education is a doctor of veterinary medicine. I'm proud to have been to the veterinary school. People say my experience is one of the best, probably even the hardest, colleges. But I'm proud to be a doctor of veterinary medicine. And then I was wondering when we were going to get to the point where we were going to find out on Twitter by the President of the government whether the anatomy of the bones would be in the first year or in the second. So I smiled and went on, and I said, it's not a very bright thought. Until today, I realized that we were simply accepting an offence that has not yet been defined. So today we have accepted here an offence that has not yet been defined, with a blank menu to Mr Krek and Mr Janša. I don't even know if you've considered what we've done. But inside me, that's what's causing a lot of fear. I want to protect systems that need to be independent of politics as a whole, but only from a specific government, and it is left, right, middle, bottom, upper, or President or Prime Minister. This article, which we adopted yesterday, allows university space to be a little safer from the flyiness of any authority. Today, when you want it — and you will — because you have the majority, of course – to cancel it again, do you know what you will do? Not only will you do something against the 11,000 signatures of prominent citizens, Slovenes and Slovenians, you will simply tell them, one of the foundations of our future, that they are not as important as we say every day. It's not what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u311	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I see and believe that it is very difficult for some to listen to all this argument, and that it is already on the committee yesterday even here today. This vehemently indicates that you are always and immensely confident in your right and immeasurably trusting your great leader that this will be dealt with by the Government on Thursday. Based on the experience with you, I don't trust you at all, and I don't trust you with 11,000 people who have signed and sent us all this mail in just the last 48 hours. We forget, we forget again, because we have already desensebised ourselves in dealing with this intervention legislation. We should be dealing with the epidemic and the consequences of the epidemic, but we have to deal with higher education. And that is a disgrace! — Proverbs 27: 11. In fact, we are again solving the mystery that the government has brewed by itself! Eight times, like I said in the debate, eight times in 10 months eight. Every month, one marriage, and in the summer, you took a vacation, and for two months, we didn't make any marriages. And you are proud to announce the ninth law, in which it is likely to increase exponentially again the number of strategic errors of this government and this coalition that supports this government, and we will solve it again with intervention legislation that does not at all fall into this form. Now the easiest thing to do is look into the ground and make some decisions again that we will correct in the future. Shame on you. No, you probably don't have this organ of shame. If you vote in favour today, you vote in favour of amendment 11,000 people, and we have to vote against it to confirm the will of not 11,000 people, but it's an entire generation. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u313	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we stick to the established rules, that is, to lay down the arguments why you will vote in favour or against, and to refrain from some agitation and similar. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u314	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course I'll vote against it. Janez Janša cannot personally decide that we have too many humanists in this society. No, we don't have too many. We don't have too many people thinking of society. We have one defender too, and he's running this country, and he can't run it, so he's terrorizing it. I will strongly vote against this because it is totally unacceptable that we have come to the situation in PKP8 when we have literally settled in just two articles, as Luke said before, the sun’s king or the great magician John Janša, who can decide for himself. We set the penalty here today in advance, and then he'll decide who and why he'll punish, which he got in advance. You've done this, now you're going in a similar direction in the area of the university. And what else did you do? Yesterday the invitation to tender should go out, yesterday the invitation to tender went to private universities, so Jambrek's university could have had a tender, subsidized by the University of Jambrek, and the public university should not have it. Why? Because the great mag or the sun King John Janša had come up with a few days ago that this society had so many and so many socialists, and he gave lies, you had previously heard information about the lies they were. Read comparable analyses with other countries. Such interventions into the autonomous institution of the University. This Parliament is no longer autonomous as we see it, because you confirm things that are beyond reason. Beyond reason. Members and Members, anyone who presses for such a thing for, is signed under this, you are signing under intolerable things that are actually constitutionally disputed. That is why, of course, we are now going to rumble with all this to the Constitutional Court. You're making a fool out of your own institution of Parliament. Please get to yourself at least in this case and do not do such things, do not interfere with autonomy [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u315	Comrade Sukich, we're out of time. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u316	Thank you very much. The amendment is justified. In fact, the deployment of study cities is not just a matter of universities and the Ministry of Education, it is a matter of all departments. It requires reflection on all the resources in the country represented by the Government, of course. Certainly the employment market, the country's development strategy or the economy, which requires both sociologists and naturalists, digital techniques and people or anything else. Therefore, consideration is needed in all departments, and consideration is also needed throughout the entire continuum. It is not only the grades that need to be looked at, but mainly at the work of the students and the search for the talents of everyone. Everyone has a talent that needs to be supported and developed. Only in an integrated way will this strategy be able to be implemented for the benefit of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u317	Comrade Duck and colleague Sukič, what procedural proposals do you have? I want to hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u318	It is my procedural task to take into account that we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy in which the strategies are adopted by the National Assembly, governments are executing them and let them stop insulting us once and for all. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u319	Comrade Duck, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u320	The second procedural proposal is that, speaking of the king of the sun, you know, during the time of the king of the sun, there was a lot more protocol in the Court of France than in our Rules of Procedure, and they stuck to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u321	Comrade Runk, a reminder. This was not a procedural proposal. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u322	Your Honor! Please point out to the debater who has just debated not to be misled. Within three days or within one week [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u323	Colleague Sukič, this is not a procedural proposal. I won't allow a debate. That's what you're talking about right now. This is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u324	Yes, it is. To warn you to stop these manipulations. Well, basically, manipulation is that within three days or one week it is not possible to carry out an analysis of the needs of this company. It takes at least a year, and that's a bare lie. A naked lie. That means you're serious about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u325	Comrade Sukich, I give you a reminder. That's not right of you. It's not right, she listened to you, and you can listen to her. That's not right. The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u326	Thank you, President, for your word. Slovenia is a recorder in many ways, in many ways Slovenia has managed to place Slovenia on the top of the scale. Even in that our children have been home for more than three months, even in that the students are in uncertainty, in what way and if they can even perform the graduation. And since you don't think you can surprise them, the government takes care of them and puts them in a new state of uncertainty by not giving their consent to the invitation to enter. With a brief explanation: we'll do an analysis. I wonder what this analysis will be like. Will this analysis be based, I don't know, on a few years ago when we had more than 100 doctors at the Employment Institute? Are we going to shut down one of the medical schools because we just don't need doctors? Because we knew in 2018 that in two years' time there would be no epidemic or the government would analyse and verify how much money the taxpayer's money went to private colleges and how busy that cadre was. Maybe there'll be a government analysis. In short, I wonder whether the Government is doing this on purpose or whether it is some beginning of the decommissioning of autonomous universities, which are the foundation of knowledge and the development of every developed democracy. Yesterday, we were able to resolve this issue on the Committee, because the Government was unable to confirm this call until 1 February. But look at the fraction, the coalition tabled an amendment that actually erases it. That is why, of course, I will vote against it myself, and as it seems, the sacrificial lamb will ultimately be nothing to blame for the Secretary of State, who was hoping to speak to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u328	You can expect me to support it. For the first time, because the President of the Government and none of our parties made any distinctions between humanism, sociology and nature. As we have repeatedly said, we are all needed in this society. The following non-resistance was given today by counterpart Luka Mesec and the newspaper company Dnevnik. I repeat, we do not compete with Germany, Austria and Switzerland, because these countries have 150 years of multinationals, they have global knowledge, they have brands worth tens of billions, and they have extraordinary institutes and patent protections. We are competing with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary at this time for partnership in these companies. There, in these countries, nature is approximately 45% represented. China, as the largest global player coming, has 2,000 universities, 70% of students are studying and graduating at the shortest possible time in nature. This means that China produces almost 700,000 engineers annually. Slovenia and all trends, if you look now at Davos and everything else, find that we need: mechatronics, bionics, nanotechnology, machine engineers, construction engineers and so on. Not to explain where the world will go within five years. And relationships. If we are to at least close to adding high added value, dear colleagues, we need to make some changes in these relations. Be realistic. Unless your goal is to have a total pension of 200 or 300 euros. Ours, yours or any children will have to fight in global markets and in the fourth industrial revolution will be extremely important knowledge mainly from technology. Many of the multinationals I talked about are usually led by engineers with a master's degree, a doctorate in economics. That's the whole story, so I'll back it up. The only proper debate at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u329	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u330	I'm just gonna say one thing. It's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's- When we began to defend the autonomy of universities, which in the midst of the greatest health epidemic this government of Janez Janša abuse, you stood up and walked because you were not interested. He's waving again, but of course you don't understand what a university is. Okay. But listen. And then someone told you to come back because it looks ugly. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u331	My colleague, I respectfully beg you. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u332	How long will it take members of the coalition to follow some completely insane actions of one Tweet sitting at home and tweeting, and this is a decree for you? Be responsible, though. And what's this whole thing all about? It's about money again, honey. That public money goes into private pockets. In one PKP you grant Jambrek University a subsidy and then you see that people don't care about this university because the public university is better quality, and we're going to beat it up so they can sign up for Jambrek University. What are you doing?Oh, my God! And then you wonder if people have enough. One day there'll be a drop over the edge. What are you doing? Where's your responsibility? The organ for shame died long ago in yours. [[shows with gesture]] . I'll say one more thing. When a man finds a profession [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can you listen to me, please? Are we still in democracy and can I debate and explain my voice as a Member? Thank you very much. When you find a career that you enjoy, you haven't done a single hour of your life. This is what Janez Janša wants to take from our young people. High school students do not know where to sign up, for John Janša does not like educated people who think with their heads. But this society will have to think, you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u333	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are here to explain our vote. Once again, I appeal to you to argue why you will vote in favour and against. We didn't even hear it in the last explanation. Let's stick to it, not agitating and inviting others. Tell me, explain your voice in your own name. My friend Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u334	The official anniversary of the establishment of the University of Ljubljana is 1919. But very quickly this new, young university in the first Yugoslavia was under pressure from the central authorities in Belgrade to stop it. At that time, the frigid Slovenians were renamed the University of Ljubljana to the University of King Alexander. Of course, King Alexander of Yugoslavia at the time could not just abolish the university that bore his name, and he kept his first university. Or perhaps in the 21st century we should cut down by the same methods. We have three, conditionally four public universities. All three, or four, can be dressed in the name of John John Janša. But Victor Orban doesn't care. But this instruction, this tweet, this is what we're really waiting for. The whole story of the intervention of Prime Minister Janez Janša in the number of places of admission to humanities, the social science at the public university actually has a beard at the beginning of this mandate, when the government of Janez Janša began to implement measures, allegedly against the epidemic, and was placed at the edge of the profession at the National Institute for Public Health. In two weeks, three representatives of this institute were replaced until they reached Milan Krek. They sent a very clear message: there is no profession, there is only a profession of SDS, there is no science, there is only science of SDS. Now, in replacing these places of entry at the public university, the message is exactly the same: there is no humanism, there is no sociology, there is only the humanities of SDS and the society of SDS. We have come from the self-appointed best epidemiologist in the country to the idea that this best epidemiologist wants to be the best student, the best dean and the best rector, even though he doesn't know for another two hours whether we're going to open schools or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Procedurally, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Imagine that the Left is there and vice versa and that we have some media that discredits everyone who disagrees with us. And let's say Mr. Chernigoy shot me and didn't record Pojbič waving and deconcentrating us, he didn't film Anja Bah Žibert deconcentrating me with a deconcentration up to half of my ass, but we should be defending ourselves in Novi24 because we're reflecting one thing. Let's act, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u337	What's your procedural proposal, colleague Tomic?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u338	To hold on to a little discipline, and not to let that guy wave and nod, get his head out of the way and let a lady take a picture of me there. Excuse me, do I have any rights, and are we all equal here, all 90?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u339	Colleagues and colleagues, please have some peace. It's fifteen to one, I suggest we don't shoot, we don't wave, I suggest we concentrate a little bit more and get this over with. I see there's still a desire to explain the voice. What are they, just two? No, there's more of you. I'm opening the list. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u340	For years, the economy has been warning and advocating the link between market needs and study. In the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia, analyses on careers of the future, development trends in specific areas, international comparative analyses in education and in particular the economy and its development in Slovenia in recent years have had little or no impact on the network of higher education programmes and their scope. The OECD has been warning us for years that we do not have official development monitoring and forecasting of the needs for staff and competences that we need today and in the future in Slovenia. The result of such practice is also structural unemployment among highly educated staff in Slovenia or often an unpleasant situation when graduates with a surplus education have to change their profession because they do not find employment with their education. In 2015, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce presented its model of long-term progress, forecasting the needs for staff and competences, as they also know in other countries. This model takes into account long-term technological and social trends. This necessity was clearly recognized by the Government, then by Marjana Sarca, who adopted a decision on 29 August 2019 imposing on individual ministries activities to set up a platform for predicting competences. One more time. This decision was taken by the government of Marjan Šarc, where SD, Desus, SMC and SAB were also parties. So you were also wondering whether we're financing real study programs or not. We in the SDS know that we need sociologists and naturalists, it's only a matter of relations. Students are rejected in science schools today, so they are desires, but there are no places to register. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u341	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u342	Thank you. I'm a little tired of hearing this emptiness. The strategies are adopted by parliaments on the basis of a broad debate where those who first learn about the issues should discuss them. If we keep saying that we do not even know what the professions of the future will be like, it is our duty to educate young people in curiosity and in critical and integrated thinking and also in didactic thinking. It's a duty. Yeah, the study program was too small. But you know, you look like a private college that's basically a college in the budget, with less control, you should ask yourself why people don't want to go to these colleges. Yes, simply — because they are comparatively not so good because they do not meet some of the points if they are strict. Suma sumarum, you know, even serious sociology is not enough. Most of what you consider to be sociology are some often honky-tonk business studies, which are not something insanely serious. You know, we also need some serious development institute. I'm always talking about the South Korean one. If not what the Dutch have, say, under the academy, some institute for advanced studies, so-called. Then we can have a serious conversation. But if you want to go into enlightened absolution, you need an enlightened discharge. If you want to cook rooster in wine, you need wine and rooster! And you don't have an enlightened absolution, and you want to go through enlightened absolutism and run over the university and its autonomy, which is a constitutional category. That's why I'm voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u343	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u344	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Just a few words about why I'm going to support this deletion amendment. First of all, I will tell you one personal experience from the first year of the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana, where there are 500, 600 students and students enrolled in the first year, and make them one half, at least that's what they first told us. After that, there is a 95 % success rate in the following years. That's on one side. On the other hand, I'd like to tell you some facts. The problem is that certain seats are not occupied. The other thing that comes out of this is that colleges get paid for places that aren't occupied. The difference in this for both public and concessionaires is 3%. Now I'm wondering why there's a place where, say, 100 seats have been signed up for 30, 40 for years, over and over 100 cities? Because we pay 100 places, not 40 or 30, as many as have actually been enrolled and as many as are actually educated through a particular process. And then we need to look at who comes from the first stage to the end of a particular education process, that is to say, to complete individual education. On the other hand, we have certain professions, and there are some such professions, including the profession of nurses, when there are not enough job opportunities, and then they have to pay for these studies themselves. That's it. I will support this amendment to delete this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Gradually, Comrade Kordish. I hope it's not a procedural abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u346	There is certainly no abuse, President. I would just like you to warn the previous debater of something that I really learned from your former [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u347	No no, Comrade Kordish. It's a procedural abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u348	Do you mind if I finish, and you'll end up judging? What I learned from your former client colleague Dusan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u349	Comrade Kordish, what should I teach him? There is no way in the Rules of Procedure that we can interfere with and deal with someone who has explained his voice. You've explained your voice, no one's proposed procedural, so I can answer something back.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u350	Do you mind if I finish? I don't argue with him. May I finish? I'm not answering him. I give you a procedural proposal, Mr President. I've addressed you directly. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u351	No, you said you were responding to him. There are no procedural proposals in explanation of vote. If you said you were disturbed by the noise, you'd understand. If you are referring to a colleague who had an explanation of vote, there is no procedural proposal, since there is nothing in this regard in the Rules of Procedure such that you may reasonably require an intervention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u352	I haven't even started articulating yet, Chairman. I will tell you in one sentence.It is difficult to judge given that I have not yet finished.Universities are financed according to the principle of lump sum, which is not directly related to tendering places. So the whole explanation of the voice we just listened to was a lie, and it was lied on purpose. But I learned this and got this information from Dusan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u353	Warning, Comrade Kordish. It's purely an abuse of the rules of procedure. Next time, I'll take your word for it. Vojko Starović has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u354	Thank you for your word, President. I will not support this proposal here either, I will vote against it. For we have interfered with the autonomy of the university, the autonomy of science, knowledge, which has been the high value of liberal society for many years. As Sab, we are a party to the social liberals and we support the free choice of professions where I will go and the autonomy of the university. With previous conclusions, we have also derogated from the rule of law, and if we go this way, I don't know where we're spitting. I really don't know. And it makes me sick to participate in a situation where we are voting against freedom. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Also a colleague of Anja Bah Žibert's.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u356	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Of course I'll support this amendment. If that were not important, then it would not have been now and years ago always so that the government would have given its consent. This isn't the first time, this is every time. And every time the government gives its consent. But I wonder what governments have done so far not to ask themselves whether we are going in the right direction. Even today, I have heard this in this national assembly — we are talking about young people being unemployed, talking about having to go abroad, and obviously no one is telling them that it is very important what kind of profession they will choose. Not to be happy to perform it, I hope they will, but to be employed in it at all. We know well that in Slovenia we have many deficient professions and, on the other hand, also hyperproduction, literally hyperproduction of some professions that are unfortunately unemployable. That's what we have to tell young people. It's not true the government won't give consent. It is only a matter of reflection and insight, whether everything is as it should be for the good of the young generation, for the good of our young people and not for the last time for our future. That's how I'm going to support this amendment, of course. But I have something else to say in the end. Apparently, there is no limit to primitiveism and wickedness in this national assembly. But I wonder what will happen if such primitiveism and such evils ever gain power in their own hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u357	My colleagues and colleagues, I see you're already very tired. Please, let's stick to the rules. The explanation of the vote in its own name was now on the table. Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik, then Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u358	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll tell you a myth. God stopped the world in eight days. Clearly, John Janša will do a two - day analysis of what we need in the next ten years. So Janez Janša is a god. But, of course, let's put a little joke aside. Yes, the government of Marjana Šarca acted responsibly, a fellow Jeraev, so already in August it ordered that needs be prepared, and then, of course, at the right time, that is, on February 1st, it published an entry to college. This could also be done by the current government, but unfortunately it is not because it was clearly swimming in Croatia and had no time and was dealing with anything other than what is needed today. Because if we did that in August or even earlier, we would even believe that there is a serious issue in the back. Unfortunately, it's not because it's about money. And that's public money that's going to flow into a private college. I'll vote against it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u359	Thank you very much. The word is Love Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to say, it's hard to hear this crying into the moon. If I look back a little history, about 10, 15 years old, when the government was that necessary regulator in colleges, I'm going to say specifically, the forestry college had an entry every other year, because this staff was enough on the market or too much. And if I look today, who is baking hamburgers in Ljubljana today, and delivering snacks in Ljubljana? And sophomores with the seventh grade of education with a master's degree. That's a picture of this footage today. This is where the government, without taking the right, must be the regulator of the future of education and the basic future of the country. It has to be, not taking justice. It has to be. If we look today at what the structure of the economy is and how many people are lacking – ask the economists. Let's be reasoned. The natural cadre is in a frantic state today, but you'd just shut down the economy. He would say that a colleague who doesn't have a working day would just shut down the economy, but you would not be providing the personnel the economy needs right now. He needs an emergency. That's why I'm happy to support this amendment. Because we need to support the economy so that the country can survive at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u361	Thank you very much. The word is Jerco Korca. My friend Kordish, you don't have a procedural [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, I'm not giving you the procedure. No, because you've abused him twice. No, I'll give you the procedure. I'm not going to give you the procedure. My colleague, Jerco Korca, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u362	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment for one simple reason. Since we could hold such debates as we hear in the explanations of vote today, it is possible on a committee of some kind, but it is not possible to agree that five before the twelfth, this matter should be put to rest in such a way. Even if we are in this House at any time having a debate on what we need to do in the future, how to regulate the entries, these debates can be legitimate, but that the President of the Government decides to make such a move five before the 12th is extremely irresponsible for me. Even those who want to enroll in universities, for this way we also intervene in some of the predictability that these people or students had. Second thing. You know, if this government were possible, because that's how you want to intervene in this field of sociology, which is problematic, and even at the time of the epidemic, call some communicator, sociologist, psychologist, or geographer, who, for example, knows little about mobility, including some sociologist, to solve the epidemic, something would happen differently. That's how we had a defender and a builder who had to deal with the virus. So, you know, you don't have to muddy humanities like that. And yes, that kind of thing isn't usually done with tomorrow. That's why I'm voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u363	Thank you very much. The port of the moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u364	We need to rebuild a little bit what happened. It happened that, as far as I know, it's the first government when the Prime Minister is like this. [[shows with gesture]] A little clapped his fingers and stopped the invitation to places in college. And now I hear someone calling it regulation. This is not regulation, it is the collapse of an existing system, the collapse by what the President of the Government has said, competing countries, so little in mind, but they have a relationship between science and sociology two to one. Which is not true, and I've said that before. All the countries we look at in Europe have a relationship about what we are, but we have now heard in the debate about how these arguments will go, why it is necessary to interfere with the autonomy of the university and why someone with a decree has to determine how many places someone gets. If I conclude after the debate today, it will go something like this: aha, and mechatronics nanotechnologies, that sounds fancy, bam, that's where we're going to increase. On the other hand, someone doesn't like, I don't know, a fax machine or an FDV, we're going to cut a little bit there, especially because we have competitive colleges for practical social studies that are closer to a party that is currently in power, and also privately owned, and maybe we can redirect a little bit of staff there. That's about how it's gonna look. And now they will determine this, as we have heard – today there is a number of those who have seen a shortage of working age on the other side, and so on I would like to be smart about universities, a high school graduate. Whoever today votes in favour of this amendment being adopted and allowing the Government to determine the entry points so slightly over the finger will vote not for regulation, but for the collapse of a system. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Bostian Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u366	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Of course I'll vote against it. Because I think that Mr Janez Janša will play too much with the future of our young, not students, students, primary schoolchildren. This primate, which he has recently taken for granted, is also the new Minister of Education and Education, and I don't know what else is, in fact, the first person. And since it really is an open society, a knowledge society, an inclusive society, I think that such things should not even happen as they are today, that we should even vote on it. In fact, today we are talking or voting on what future we want and what future we want for our children. Children certainly want an open society, a knowledge society, an inclusive society, so once again, I will vote against and think about it again. Put yourself in the role of your children and think a little bit about your children, not just about yourself and about your own, I'll say, the priorities you have, one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 36. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, SD and Levica groups to Article 34. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. True, the covida-19 virus is spreading all over the world again and even a new strain, South Africa, British, some even mention the Slovenian version of this strain. On the other hand, there is a tendency to normalize life and to establish it as it used to be. It is in this light that, following the example of neighbouring Austria in our parliamentary group, together with fellow opposition members, we propose that pensioners, who are over 65 years old, be provided with three free FFP2 masks a month, which can be taken over by pensioners or older than 65 years in pharmacies, under the burden of the state budget. This is an important measure to prevent the spread of the epidemic. These masks, which are more effective, are masks that protect both the one he wears and the other, the one he talks to. So we ask in this sense for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u369	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to Article 37. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB to Article 42. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 45. Mag. A Jewish explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u370	Thank you, President, for your word. That's all I want to say. When we use public money in the public interest, we have the right to receive some kind of bond from the recipient. If we finance or co-finance subsidies to wait for companies, which is right, we, as a country, also have the right to demand a slightly better attitude towards employees. So, what we are proposing is that if companies, the economy, benefit from the money we give in good faith to keep jobs, we expect them to give job guarantees to those economists for at least three months, because, last but not least, we are working for people to give them a guarantee that at least three months after the end of state money they will still be provided with a job. That's our proposal. We'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u371	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI to Article 55a. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 15. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 56(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Left and Sab groups to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 56(2). We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 1, to Article 16, Article 26, to Article 10, Article 33a and Article 55a of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Member, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u372	We're going to vote against the anti-Korona package in Levica. So it's because it's written infinitely bad, and it's also because it doesn't help people who should help them. All aid, all millions of people do not come to people, but at the same time, the Slovenian order re-enters things that do not belong to anti-korona measures and are harmful to the country and to society. For starters, minimum wage. The government wants to subsidise employers who pay minimum wages with 50 euros from the state budget each month for each paid minimum wage. This builds unfair competition for those employers who pay higher wages and want to work with permeability and innovation rather than labour. At the same time, the minimum wage paid to these employers is cut off by contributions financing pensions and medical bills. In the middle of the epidemic, he cuts contributions to the health department, money for material and services. Then there are penalties for legal persons, for not strictly defined programmes and acts to be prepared and signed by Milan Krek of the NIJZ and Janez Janša as health minister. Up to €100,000, these penalties for legal persons are rising. If you're not obedient, we'll discipline you, even if you're not a natural person or if you're not an espa. It's a very naughty university. The government of Janez Janša decided that she knew best what to study and what not. And this was also voted by the coalition MPs, who did not see the universities from within at all, which of them barely graduated from primary school. This is a grave intervention in the autonomy of the university. What a profound effect this will have on the development or development of John Janša’s government, and we have seen the case of the minimum wage. Development with low-skilled jobs is not a development. In order to achieve it, we need a university, we need educated people, we also need critical people who put dictatorial powers on the brink, when necessary, let's say at such a time. It's no surprise that Janez Janša's government doesn't like smart people. And students are certainly smart people, so in PKP8, she again punished them differently. Students who depend on their work and who come from poor families do not receive compensation for the loss of their student income, which they cannot do. Students in this country should find themselves, as they know and know, alone, while John Janša’s brain about where they can continue to enroll in the study or perhaps not.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u374	Thank you for your word. As a literal schoolboy, in a branch primary school born a child and as a person who has even created his adult life of high quality, university education in Slovenia, even a very quality society, I cannot support such a PKP, which, in a way that is sensitive, insulted, let the Slovenian Army forgive me, a sub-officer who reminds me of some sub-officer from JNA, destroy this. Another time. I cannot support the CAP, which essentially introduces systemic corruption. You have a mouthful of foreigners and how you will attract foreigners to the Slovenian economy. What serious foreigner will go to open a company in Slovenia if he has an original sin on the start, which Janša will then commit? There will only be someone who will deal with such ill-lit authority sooner than kleptopathically. In fact, I cannot support this law as a parent, in particular when I listened to the SDS page, which here teaches “we must tell the young people”. Young people aren't as stupid as this House is right now, you know. That's why I'm voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u375	These are probably some self-assessments. Anyone else? [[Yeah.]] Comrade Primaj Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u376	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning! The government of Janez Janša has, with its parliamentary constellation in the hands of all ministries, all ministers, the military, the intelligence agency, the police, the longest police hour, all homes for the elderly, the entire health system, the entire school system, the largest religious organisation, the public budget, even the state assembly, even the country, is in control. But for a record number today, or yesterday, 5,000 388 people died in Slovenia, blames the nouvelles and trumps primary schools and their mothers and the traditional MPs and Members of the Left. The eighth antikron package is a clear indicator, the most plastic indicator of the current stand and the priority of the government of Janez Janša. On the one hand, it abolishes the right to freely decide on its own education. The nurses who are the pillar of our health system are denied a decent payment for their work. Students keep in a precarious situation, in poverty, we've heard all this through justifications. While he licks the church summit, which already has plenty, he does not even pay his people and provide them with social security. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I cannot support this law. For you to find the culprit for this messy epidemic, you don't have to make up some interdepartmental task force for these record numbers, some analysis, and I don't know what it is. For you to find the culprit for the record number of deaths and the escape epidemic, all you have to do is look at the spaghetti. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Mia Kordish in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u378	It is very clear from the beginning where infections are being fed in this country, and in particular it was crystallized in the second wave of the covida-19 epidemic. The epidemic spreads mainly to or through jobs, those in the economy, those in the industry. In these jobs, in industrial halls, the government of Janez Janša did not intervene in industrial zones. Instead, she went and closed schools, even though schools are the ones that should close last and open first. Even the National Institute for Public Health published data in November of the previous year that substantiate this type of spread of infections. And Janez Janša's reign is nothing. The main engine that spreads infections through jobs is presentationism. So the employees go to work, they come to work when they're sick, even when they're showing symptoms, for two reasons. First reason. They are forced to do so by employers who threaten to forgive them. Will the government of John Janša punish them in any way? He won't. Second reason. The government of sick and infected workers with covid-19 did not provide social insurance in a way that would enable them to afford and stay at home where they would get over it, heal themselves and not spread the virus during their journey to work and in the workplace. Labour wages are already so low in this country and, of course, before fear of poverty, working families decide that their employees will continue to go to work. Why? Because the compensation for absences is lower than their already-declared wages. Austria, Germany, Croatia have introduced a 100 % compensation for absence from work if you have a crown. Slovenia is unable to do so in the eighth package of the PKP.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-02-02-SDZ8-Izredna-57.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukich. No, no, no. Okay. Then we vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 10. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 57th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
