ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 67th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Alenka Bratušek, Ivan Hršak, Gregor Židan, Dušan Verbič and Franz Trček until 10 a.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no Member or Member has announced for the day of the participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using a remote meeting application. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the work of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period from 2021 to 2024. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Prime Minister Janez Janša for further explanation of the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, citizens and citizens! You have before you a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period up to 2024. We have already considered a similar declaration in the National Assembly 12 times, but this time it is a document that tries to look at a slightly longer period than it has been since this document was adopted for a year and a half. Rapid changes in Europe and around the world require the adoption of a more strategic document with fundamental guidelines for our operation in the European Union, and the period covered by this declaration now coincides with the entire legislative period or mandate of the European Commission and also of the European Parliament. This declaration is also time-conformed with the European Union Strategic Agenda for the period 2019-2024 and therefore there is a greater clarity and coherence of key priorities for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. It is also about making our interests more transparent or what we want to achieve in institutions at this time. Since you have considered this declaration on seven working bodies, it has also been addressed by the State Council, I will not repeat what it says because I believe that you have become more familiar with it. However, I would like to add some additional light to the period we see and in which this declaration is to be applied. For the first time, since we have adopted a similar document, we have planned our operation in the institutions of the European Union at a time after Brexit, it is said that at a time when one of the Member States, one of the largest, has left the family, and this is not entirely coordinated and unanimously because there are still a number of issues that we believe are closed, which are now being resolved in court or in court. This represents a strategically different environment as we have been trained to date since Slovenia's entry into the European Union. At present, as mentioned in the declaration, the European Union, as well as most of the rest of the world, is a key problem with the Coronavirus pandemic. Much of what is going to happen in the European Union over the next four years will depend very much on how the pandemic will be tackled or what the results will be, and in particular what lessons will be drawn from it. As soon as Slovenia was included in the Trio Presidency programme with Germany and Portugal, Slovenia added two priorities, which were unanimously adopted. This is the preparation of the European Union for greater resilience to future pandemics, which are likely to be a sad fact, and the preparation of the European Union for greater resilience to cyber attacks, which are the greatest threat to the modern world, other than the nuclear conflict, at this moment. Surely this is the most current topic at this time, and we can put anything else in the declaration, and it will not change these currents or these priorities. The European Union is currently working on efforts to ensure enough vaccine, which is the only known way to effectively stop the epidemic. Unfortunately, the European Union summit, convened for this week, was cancelled or postponed to an audiovisual conference, the formal reason is the situation of increasing infections in most Member States of the European Union or the beginning of the third wave. The real reason is probably different, because yesterday, there are a number of meetings in Brussels today, from the meetings of well-known ministers to the meeting of well-known ministers with the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United States within NATO, a series of other meetings where the co-worker of the situation is obviously not sufficient to avoid these meetings. The cancellation of the physical meeting of the European Summit and the transfer to a videoconference, which is a completely different format, is conditional on great dissatisfaction with the contracts concluded with the vaccine producers, in particular with AstraZeneca, because this supplier does not adhere to contracts and therefore the European Union as a whole has problems with the implementation of vaccination plans, as adopted at the end of last year or at the beginning of this year. I strongly doubt that these problems will be cleared up through an audiovisual conference, so that we will remain for a while without satisfactory answers as to how this situation has occurred. However, additional efforts are being made to ensure that other producers are vaccinated or that vaccines in the testing process are approved as soon as possible, so that this error will be corrected in the conclusion of the contracts. In the resolution we talk a lot about green transition and digital transformation, and in all the strategic documents of the European Union for the near and medium future, this is mentioned or defined as a strategic definition. As regards the green transition, it is important to note that it is a transition and not a break, which means that, in addition to deciding when we will move on to carbon neutrality and that everything green will also have to consider the price of this transition and, in particular, the effects of this transition. If this is not weighed, if this is not contained in strategies, and if this is under-processed in many sectors, then a headless rush to certain percentages in practice means the collapse of industries that currently provide tens of millions of jobs in Europe, a large percentage of the gross domestic products of individual industrially most developed countries, on the other hand, of this type of industry moving to other continents, to less developed areas of the world, where CO2 emissions are then increasing and we have not achieved anything in the global world, except the destruction of certain industries that are at this moment of strategic importance for Europe. This awareness that it is not a breakthrough, but a transition is under-emphasized in a number of strategic documents. If you are following these discussions, Europe, especially Germany, is causing major turbulence, including in the internal political venues of individual countries. When it comes to digital transformation, we're talking about something that's going on, we're talking about something that needs to be competitive, but we're also talking about something where there are huge risks, because artificial intelligence is not just a way to make things cheaper, better, greener, but it's a technology that can be misused in another direction. If I simplify, I'm talking about the danger of cyber attacks or cyber addiction. This is a point where each Member State of the European Union is itself significantly too weak to face this challenge, and Europe as a whole is too weak in a given force ratio in the world. This is a point where the North Atlantic Alliance or the Transatlantic Alliance is particularly needed, because it is possible or very likely that this is the only way to establish sufficient cybersecurity here, and only sufficient cybersecurity allows us to exploit all the good potentials of this digital transformation. The strategic problem of the European Union that you do not want to deal with in the future, and more and more, is demography. The ageing population in Europe is a multiple challenge. The debate on how much this problem can be solved through migration and how much different family policies and traditional ways of correcting the demographic picture are taking place and will continue. Clearly, however, the solution is in a healthy combination, which implies that Europe also has a single migration policy, that it is able to protect external borders and that it is able to set and implement rational and uniform criteria for legal migration flows. The topic contained in the declaration, which, of course, is also striking within the European Union, was to a large extent the topic that began the discussions on brexit, the issue of the rule of law. For a multinational, multi-state community such as the European Union, the rule of law is fundamental. The assumption that the Community is founded on the rule of law is, above all, that the same criteria apply to all, that we are equal and equal before the European institutions of the Member States of the European Union, regardless of the number of people who have joined the European Union. It is said that the same criteria are applied when, for example, France exceeds some percentages or criteria when it comes to fulfilling European Stability, Sustainability or anything, and that the same criteria are applied when it comes to Malta, Slovenia, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland, Sweden and so on. The main debates took place when individual members had a legitimate or unjustifiable feeling that they did not apply to all the same watts. Slovenians, who have long lived in multinational countries of different governments, know where it leads to the feeling that the same criteria do not apply to all, and how unfortunately such stories end. From this point of view, the fight for the rule of law is first; the fight to ensure that the criteria, the rules applicable in a particular community, apply to all. Because such a community then holds individuals as well as nations and states as a place where righteousness reigns and where they want to dwell. In the next four years, an open debate on the future of the European Union will be held in a way that has not yet been opened. Not only because the conference on the future of Europe and the main part formally started, but the main time block of this conference coincides with the second half of this year, when Slovenia leads the Council of the European Union, but this debate will be different, as it has been so far, due to many factors, the two most important factors. One of them is the brexit already mentioned. For the first time, we are in a situation where the European Union has not only spread but has also shrunk, and it is sensitive. The second reason is the pandemic that's still going on. In these circumstances, which will be replaced primarily by these two factors, there will be a debate on how Europeans imagine our common future. Preparations for this conference alone do not generate much optimism. Those who recall the previous conference on the future of Europe, you know that at the time, the President of the Conference was appointed, that a flexible structure had been established, but the hierarchical structure that led the conference then, we first received a proposal for a constitutional treaty that was rejected in France, the Netherlands, and then some compromise in the form of the Treaty of Lisbon. So the process has somehow leaked into some conclusions that were mostly good despite the problems. The institutions of the European Union have now failed to agree on a single President, so the conference is now in the hands of the tria and the Presidents of the European Commission and of the European Parliament are now in the hands of the Presidency, which means that Slovenia will also host a conference on the future of Europe. This is a great responsibility at this time, given that conclusions are to be adopted at the beginning of next year, rather than one year or exactly one year from now. This means that most of the work should be done during our Presidency, which is a huge additional burden for Slovenia and also a great responsibility. We had to organise ourselves further for this debate. We have decided that we will take this challenge seriously, not as a technical challenge, where you organise those meetings that you have to, write records and wait for half a year to pass, but we will try first to open the space of this conference in fact for all the ideas that go around Europe about what our common future should be, without any idea being eliminated in advance on the basis of such or other political correctness or imaginary mainstreams. This is the only way we can come up with some conclusions that will include an assessment in which everyone actually participated. Not only officials, bureaucracy or government representatives of the Member States, we would also like to include, I will say, a thinking part of Europe, from universities to think tanks, civil society, all the European Parliament's parliamentary groups and all those who have any idea of what we should do to make Europe a common home for all Europeans. The traditional international meeting of the Black Strategic Forum will be devoted practically to this task, and we will also organise a series of other events in which we will open this debate. In view of the design, such as that agreed between the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission, some of the expectations that a new treaty would be reached on the basis of the conclusions of this Conference are not built into a document that would replace or upgrade the Treaty of Lisbon, nor are they integrated into the most optimistic drafts of this document. Although, in my opinion, this is a goal that we should simply not run away from. Because certain matters are likely to be upgraded in this Treaty, but above all this is a vast grey field, a grey zone of issues which can also be addressed and resolved in a completely different way from what we are now witnessing. We will try to work on how, on the basis of our contribution and our work, and in particular our open-ended approach, the conclusion of this conference can be more promising than expected after the European institutions have failed to organise the conference in the same way that we have carried out the last one. So much as an additional explanation for the declaration. Given that this is a period up to 2024, some of the objectives or some of the ambitions of this declaration can be taken as a practical fact because it is a matter of consistency with the programme of the current European Parliament and the European Commission and we are talking about things that are actually going to happen, how they will happen and what will be the final result, of course, is open. Here we are talking about our ambitions in the context of something that will actually be on the table. Of course, given that it is no longer a period of 18 months, but that it is a four-year period, many unexpected challenges can also be counted at that time. In this case, of course, the National Assembly will have to supplement this declaration, if necessary, or in any other formal way, to face these challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was addressed as competent working bodies by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor first to the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mags. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, colleague, colleague! At its 100th meeting, on 12 March, the European Union Affairs Committee considered as a competent committee the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Assembly pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 5, of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union and Article 154f, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 154(3), Mr Matjaž Han has tabled several amendments. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Administration participated in the meeting of the Committee. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Gasper Dovžan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, presented the key points of the proposal for a declaration. He explained that the novelty of the proposal for a declaration to provide guidance for the functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union until 2024, since the declarations so far referred to the 18-month duration of the three-month presidency of the Council of the European Union. Given that the current declaration expired in the middle of last year and that the adoption of the new declaration coincides with the mandate of the current European Commission and the European Parliament, the Government proposes the adoption of a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period until the end of the current legislative cycle or the duration of the strategic agenda. This will make Slovenia's key priorities more clear in the European Union. He stressed that the renewed declaration was a concise strategic document, which was significantly shorter than the previous one and, due to a longer period of time, provided key policy guidance. It will make it easier to plan and improve the stability and efficiency of the work of the sectoral ministries and the functioning of our diplomats in Brussels. The discussion at the Committee's meeting included a number of opinions, expressed several inconsistencies over the period defined by the document and was therefore proposed to limit Slovenia's performance in the institutions of the European Union during the period May 2021 to June 2022. It has been pointed out that the document is unambitious and does not represent the idea of an open Europe. It was pointed out that the environmental and technological guidelines mentioned in the proposal for a declaration were very general and undeclared. On the other hand, the Members expressed support for the content and shorter form of the proposal for a declaration, since it is a single and clearly focused on the six priority areas of Slovenia's operations by 2024. The document also seeks to adapt the content and form that is very important in the currently uncertain time when priorities change rapidly. Nevertheless, Members stressed that the Government will continue to report regularly and at least once a year to the National Assembly on the functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. Slovenia, on the one hand, advocates a return to the fundamental values of the European Union and, on the other hand, supports the new impetus of the European Union. In the closing act, the Secretary of State, Mr Gasper Dowžan, responded to the opinions and views of Members and Members and expressed his satisfaction that they had noticed that the document was based on sound and concise thinking. He stressed that the aim of the document is to ensure the uniform and targeted functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. In conclusion, the Secretary of State considered that the document was a good one and represented a movement forward in terms of quality, since previous declarations between Members and Members were marked as repeating. After the discussion, the Committee first decided on the 15 amendments tabled by Mr Matjaž Hana and did not accept them. The Committee then voted on all parts of the proposal for a declaration, which fall within the competence of the Committee on European Union Affairs as the committee responsible, and adopted them, with a vote of nine to six. As no amendments have been adopted to the proposal for a declaration on the committee responsible, the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union proposes that the draft declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024 be adopted in the present text.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For the presentation of the report, I also give the floor to the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 76th meeting on 12 March this year, the Foreign Policy Committee also considered the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024. Further explanation was given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Ange Logar, who assessed the document as ambitious, clear and understandable. He explained the purpose of the revised format, as such declarations have so far referred to the 18-month duration of the Trio Presidency of the Council of the EU, and the document under consideration today provides guidance for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions for the period to the end of the current European legislative cycle. The Minister stressed that the proposal for a declaration takes into account and includes key priorities as set out in the declaration and in the strategy on the external policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The three concentration circles of our foreign policy action are highlighted: neighbourhood, the European Union and global action. According to the Foreign Minister's assessment, the proposal for a declaration is strategically oriented and allows for more active representation of Slovenia in the European Union at all levels. The Conference on the Future of Europe will be an opportunity to improve the efficiency, resilience, response and functioning of the European Union. It will begin on 9 May this year and will also be one of the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency. The Foreign Minister concluded the presentation by assessing that Slovenia, during the Presidency, has the opportunity to more actively co-create European policies, to consolidate its place in the European Union, to contribute to building confidence in European institutions and to increase its visibility on a European and global scale. In addition, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Uroš Lampret, said that during the Slovenian Presidency, attention would be given to the Western Balkans, strengthening cooperation between the EU and NATO and the energy efficiency of the defence system. He explained that the debate on the so-called strategic compass is also at the forefront of the EU and that horizontal themes are becoming increasingly important, where more cross-cutting cooperation is needed. For example, cyber challenges and hybrid threats. Slovenia, as a reliable member of PESCO, will continue to support the European Defence, Industrial Development Programme and will continue to participate in European Union operations and missions, in particular in the Western Balkans, the Sahel, the Mediterranean and the Middle East. The increasing impact of climate change will also require adaptation to defence response, in particular in terms of energy efficiency and the protection of key supply chain infrastructure and maritime route protection. The debate followed by criticism by the opposition that, before the document was drafted, there was insufficient consultation, that the new timeframe was inadequate, that the document did not sufficiently highlight the values of the rule of law and media freedom and that the document was too ambitious in particular in areas where Slovenia had been recognised as an important actor, for example, for the Western Balkans. The Coalition welcomed the strategic orientation of the proposal, the involvement of key ministries in the drafting of the document, its timely adaptation to the European legislative cycle, but also noted the need to restart the European economy after the pandemic and new security issues, in particular in the areas of cybersecurity and the protection of critical infrastructure. After the discussion, the Committee decided, and did not accept, the nine amendments tabled by Mr Matjaž Han. The Committee on Foreign Policy then voted on the proposal for a declaration under its jurisdiction and adopted it by nine votes to six with nine votes in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Igor Peček will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, colleague and colleague! Each tripartite presidency of the Council of the European Union has so far been subject to the practice of giving guidance to the Government on the proposed legislative proposals. That's the 13th in a row. The last was adopted at the time of the government of Marjana Sarca, adopted at the beginning of 2019, when we did not really know how difficult times await us and that we will have to go through a crisis that we have not experienced so far with the Member States of the European Union. We are facing a health and economic crisis, in front of the door – it is necessary to fight to avoid it – is a social crisis. We have come to understand how important it is to strengthen health and social services in the European Union. However, the future start-up of the Union's economy cannot be imagined without incentives and guidance that will lead us to sustainable growth, mainly through the transition to green and digital. Even before the covida-19 crisis, an ambitious plan was presented by the European Commission to help a green Europe is the European Green Agreement. The current proposal for a declaration had been delayed for half a year, but we were able to address the Portuguese Presidency and adopt a Directive on batteries and waste batteries, which will help to increase transparency in the use and recycling of rare metals. This will be particularly important if we want to make more use of electric cars. So this is a path that shows that we can start by implementing the principles of the circular economy. A number of such actions, ambitions and objectives will help us not only to stay at the level of the European Union but also to achieve what we have set ourselves at the beginning of 2020. Legislation in the field of new own resources of the European Union will also be essential, which will also help to achieve the objectives set for the green and digital transition. There is a need to highlight the digital tax and the mechanism for carbon adjustment at our borders. In the proposed declaration, we missed a greater definition of the Tria Presidency legislation in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca. The definition of the European Union's anticipated new own resources would be essential. The presentation of these legislative proposals is foreseen at the end of the Portuguese Presidency and key negotiations will continue at the time of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. We must also not overlook the fact that the fiscal rule applicable to all Member States of the European Union is expected to be reinstated in 2023, so it is more important to implement legislation for the new own resources of the European Union, which will contribute to the budget of the European Union and the Recovery and Resistance Fund. It will also depend to what extent Slovenia will still have to take responsibility for the implementation of the projects envisaged in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. In the future, it is important that we do not leave any of the countries at international level and maintain dialogue with all key players. The declaration highlights the agreement with the United States of America and does not highlight the already negotiated trade agreement of the European Union with the Latin American countries under the Mercosur Partnership and the investment agreement with China. At this point in LMŠ, we would like to point out that China is giving increasing importance to green construction. These are experiences that can also be shared through cooperation in the European Union. China also recently decided to become neutral by 2060. It is not to be overlooked that both the United States of America and China, together with the European Union, will in some way set an example for other countries in order to focus intensively on the green transition. In doing so, it should be pointed out that we would like to place greater emphasis on compliance with both environmental and social standards in the Marjan Sarca Trade Agreements. It is time to also start implementing the legislation that came about six years ago and try to revive it with a new trade strategy. We must point out enhanced cooperation with the countries of Africa, especially the Sahel region, which is already plagued by the effects of climate change, by the phenomenon of the spread of the desert. The European Union strategy for the Sahel is quite outdated and is already in 2011. Africa must be seen as an equal partner who can achieve much in its development, and it is very important that the European Union stands by it. Slovenia's views on individual legislative proposals are essential not only for the reason that many times Slovenia's positions cannot be dealt with within the European Union Affairs Committee but also for the guidance that our permanent representatives in Brussels can draw on. The proposed declaration does not detect them, and it also interferes with the period until 2024, when it is not quite clear which legislative proposals we will consider at European Union level. It is right that the proposal for a declaration is based on key documents setting out a strategy for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, such as the Development Strategy, the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia and also the strategic agendas of the European Union, but these documents should only constitute a indicative starting point. In our view, the proposal for a declaration presented by the Government should define more precisely and more clearly the objectives that the Republic of Slovenia wants to achieve and also what conditions must be met. In our view, it is too general and ready for too long, so we cannot support the proposal for a declaration in the Marjan Sarca Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u10	Honourable President of the Government, President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! Slovenia will hold the presidency for the second time since its accession to the European Union, in good three months. It will thus take over the management of the Council of the European Union, the direction of the legislative work of the Council and the coordination of positions for a trialogue with the European Commission and the European Parliament. Each Presidency is expected to be impartial and neutral in its efforts for common EU solutions, in particular to ensure respect for procedures and European legislation, not to emphasise its own interests, but to commit itself to common values and the fundamental objectives of the European Union. This is the task that Slovenia will have to perform. Whether this mission is aware, we rightly ask in the Group of Social Democrats. At present, Slovenia is moving towards the extremes of power relations on the European floor, which is already a strong principle of relations with some Member States and, above all, with European institutions. The positive seal of the Presidency will therefore be very difficult for Slovenia to reach. Slovenia has, in the past, created great respect for itself, particularly among the core countries of the European Union, by advocating and respecting the fundamental values of the EU. Until Janez Janša's performance, Slovenia has consistently demonstrated that, according to its values and conduct, it belongs to a group of the most connected Member States, one of the key strategic directions of Slovenian foreign policy. Thus, in its natural role in the informal group of Member States of the European Union, friends of the rule of law, including France and Germany, whose efforts have been made in the European Commission's political initiative and the implementation of the systematic annual report on the rule of law of the European Union. It was one of the most pro-European-oriented countries for which, based on the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, the EU was a fundamental policy framework for ensuring prosperity and fundamental rights. This framework brings together the Member States themselves and ensures European unity, democracy and the effective functioning of the European institutions, which have been built on the ten-year basis of democratic experience and the consensus of international policy and the European community. On these values, respected, the Republic of Slovenia has also built its constitutionality and decision for independence. Does it then, Sire, hold that Slovenia will fulfil its commitments during its Presidency to the Council of the European Union? Dear Members, since the beginning of the examination of the declaration on the direction and functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024, we have assessed that the document is not suitable for adoption in the National Assembly. This is a document that unfortunately reflects the current political reality in the Republic of Slovenia, but not the reality in our European community. It is contrary to the basic documents of the European Union and Slovenia, after all, it is not in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, if we are talking only about the time limit for the mandate of this Act. That is why, with respect, we have proposed 13 pages of amendments to a document with just so many pages in it in the Group of Social Democrats. Unfortunately, the Coalition, by rejecting all amendments and the same logic as it had in the PKP intervention laws and in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, does not wish to reach such an important consensus on this parliamentary floor. So much, respectable, about this offered deadline, the deadline for participation in the National Assembly and Slovenian politics. We estimate that this is a document that does not represent the ideas of an open and future-oriented Europe, but embraces the old Europe, a set of individual national countries that are re-closing themselves. Instead of progressive integration for in-depth political cooperation, which will respond to the needs of Europeans and Europeans, and which will make the EU one of the relevant actors in the international community, we are moving back to a level of backwardness, to naked economic cooperation and to a smaller European Union. Respectable, strong Member States mean a strong European Union, the applicants have written. However, it is so much more true that the strong European Union means strong Member States and the weak European Union means weak Member States. Countries that do not want to survive more know that they are better integrated, especially if we look at this from the perspective of a smaller country, such as the Republic of Slovenia, which is in the interest of its citizens and citizens, so that common rules can be invoked on the European parquet, the single weight of voice and the possibility of creating common policies, which remains in this community. The fact is that the current government understands the fundamental values of the European Union, particularly the rule of law, in its own way. If it is in line with their political plan, it refers to them, if it is not, to deny them. Such interpretation also wishes to be implemented through a declaration, where it points out that it is also necessary to assess the specific historical context of the Member States, which requires a different approach and measures to strengthen the rule of law. This merely relativises the criteria of rule of law, which should be a fundamental criterion for all Member States of the European Union. A double understanding of freedom, democracy and the rule of law is a serious threat to the European Union and could lead to a halt to further European integration. Thinking, respected, does not change overnight, but individual events can speed things up. Social thinking becomes what we fill it with, what we feed it with. If we fill it with fear every day, the willingness to wage war, threats, intolerance, disrespect for dialogue will become exactly the same. It is similar with this document, respected, with regard to our operation in the European Union. We have filled it with wrong content, we have filled it with wrong things, away from European solidarity, social justice, the well-being of citizens and citizens, transparency and creation of the future of our community, responsibilities to the environment and future generations, coexistence that enriches us. Let us ask ourselves what kind of society we are turning into, while the coalition is merely taking another “banal” vote at one of the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, voluntarily accepting a document that speaks of the foreign political positions of the State and not the government, that is, the state and not just the coalition. We should therefore be more inclined to consensus, not just to talk about cooperation, the distinguished President of the Government. We believe that the consensus on priorities and the compromise of all political forces would outweigh the hard work we would put together in this document. The Social Democrats were ready to cooperate. Unfortunately, none of the opposition's amendments, i.e. the Social Democrats' Group, was adopted on the competent committees, on the affairs of the European Union and on foreign policy. Therefore, respectable colleagues in the coalition and the opposition, respected colleagues and the general public, cannot support the Government's Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union. For this document is not a document of the European Union, but is only a document of the government of Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, the President of the Government, say hello to everyone! The Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union for the period 2021-2024, which is already a 13th document by type, outlines the fundamental views of our country over a period of important decisions that will in many ways share the future of the European Union. There are many changes at EU level that may have a strong impact on the development of Slovenia and the Union as a whole, so this moment is suitable for looking back and assessing the impact of previous declarations and achievements of Slovenia, while at the same time it is a good opportunity to look at the common European future and the situation of Slovenia within the EU. The proposal for a declaration highlights the priorities and key policy orientations that Slovenia will follow in its operation in the EU institutions in the coming period. We are pleased to note that the recent involvement of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions and working bodies of the European Union has been much more active and successful in representing Slovenia and its interests than in the past. The proposal for a declaration, according to our assessment, provides a good basis for the continued functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the Union and a solid framework for taking positions on the topics under consideration at European level, while at the same time identifying current challenges and including the guidance of the Republic of Slovenia in finding solutions. We note that some of the tasks set out in the previous January 2019-June 2020 declaration remain unfinished and will need to be addressed in the new declaration. At the level of the European Union, some old trials are currently open, but also a number of new challenges, including addressing the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, new security issues, including cybersecurity and the planned spread of false news and non-truths, increasing threats to peace and order within Europe, and increasing instability in the European neighbourhood. In the SMC, it seems important that the EU is focused on sustainable recovery, which will strengthen economic and social convergence in the European Union, increase its international competitiveness, enable digital breakthroughs and generate economic growth. In the SMC, we also support further strengthening the European Union's cooperation in the field of security and defence. In particular, we would like to point out that we will support the declaration in this regard in the Group of Members, because we think it is an excellent starting point for future talks and views on the development of the European Union in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u14	All present, all hailed! Let me begin by saying that we will not support this declaration in Levica. While we have been critical of all the previous declarations on Slovenia's orientations in the functioning of EU institutions, they have more than reflected Slovenia's peripheral position within this group and its passive role, which has more than accepted and undermined the dictatorship of the European Union's central states without considering our specifics and our needs. Nevertheless, we have learned from the previous declarations at least what subjects will be dealt with at the time of the entry into force of the declaration at European Union level, and we do not see this from the declaration we are currently considering. If I should just say a comparison. The previous declaration had 102 pages and was adopted for a period of one and a half years, the previous one, the last one of the previous terms of office of the National Assembly, had 82 pages and was accepted for a period of one and a half years; this declaration has 15 pages and is accepted for a period of four years. Of course, the first page is the title, one page is a letter containing information on which government representatives will participate in the presentation of this declaration in the National Assembly and one page is the government's explanation of this declaration. So we are left with 12 pages on which nothing is clear or the only thing that is clear is that we are giving the map to the government of Janez Janša that he is doing in the institutions of the European Union within four years, which he likes. Above all, at this time, Slovenia will be chairing the European Union for another six months, and nothing about it. Let me finish. This declaration is a farce. Her content, if we can even call it content, is a farce. And it also deals with this farce declaration, in which a democratic debate on such an important document, such as the guidelines for the functioning of the country in the European Union over the next four years, reduces the process: the government submits a paper, the working bodies discuss it – seven working bodies, not all – and then the parliamentary majority vote on this paper. On paper, however, it is concluded that this paper has been dealt with and that we have no comments. Please, we have had a lot of comments, but the decision was written in such a way that the parliamentary majority voted on a committee with a narrow majority, and that is all we can say about this declaration. The procedure by which the Government is given a Bianca's view to do practically whatever it wants in the institutions of the European Union over the next four years, or to adapt its action as easily as possible to the interests of the ruling kleptocracy. The vote for this declaration is no longer a vote for missed policies, as it was in the past, but it is a vote for this declaration that the government of Janez Janša, even in the European Union and its institutions, is doing exactly what it is to love that moment. At one of the previous meetings, government representatives said something in terms of the fact that the previous declarations were too long and that they did not apply, which could have resulted and we can conclude that they were thought to have been without a federal one, so they have now written a declaration in which there is virtually nothing, and of course we have nothing to resist. It was further explained that it is not our job to position ourselves in one direction or another before the presidency, which essentially confirms the servants' attitude or the complete unwillingness of Slovenia. For all the countries make use of their Presidency to open up and put at the forefront those themes and problems of the European Union that it considers to be crucial and, of course, seek solutions that are of interest to the country's presidency. Slovenia is clearly unable to do so under this government because the country does not yet have an abstract national interest, which is always the interests of the ruling class, we understand, but the ruling policy is leading the country in accordance with its own partisan private interests, and that is why this government places the whole country so easily just before the presidency in a very unenviable role. The first two out of five years, which will be crucial, also cover the political orientations of this declaration, which are not. Member States will identify their specific needs and draw up strategic plans to determine how they intend to use their resources and achieve their objectives. All the strategic plans will be approved by the European Commission in advance, so that we are not left to ourselves here, but we will still depend on EU policies to be developed in the coming years. Addressing the climate crisis is one of the most important. Before that, we have heard the President of the Government, how he feels about this issue personally. However, the chapter covering a four-year strategy in the field of finance and economy is addressed by a sustainable recovery of the economy and consists of two sides of unreasoned flossules. Culture is mentioned in these words: attention must also be paid to the areas of culture and cultural heritage. That is all, and that is why the Committee on Culture has not considered this declaration, we have not received it for consideration, we have not been granted it. The Presidency is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to promote a country's culture, and I asked Minister Simoniti about the strategies yesterday in my parliamentary question, and the answer was that I am not sympathetic to him and that I will not get an answer. You can see the magnetogram. In the left hand side of this declaration, which is not a declaration, of course we will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Ambassador of Nova Slovenije Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u16	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Slovenian diplomacy is one of the youngest and most proportional to the size of the country and one of the smallest diplomas in the world in its 30-year operation. The first steps in the art of acting on the diplomatic floor were taught by exceptional individuals in foreign halls and in the ruling monarchies and in countries where Slovenians and Slovenians dreamed of their own independent country. With the announcement of the Republic of Slovenia on 25 June 1991, Slovenian diplomacy became for the first time a messenger of our independent and independent state and a representative of political decisions in the legislative and executive branch of power. May 22 is the day of Slovenian diplomacy, the day when we remember Slovenia's membership in the United Nations Organization, Slovenia stepped on the global diplomatic floor and upgraded it in a relatively short time with membership in the European Union, NATO, and several years later also in the OECD. Let us not forget, colleagues and colleagues, that we will be chairing the Council of the European Union in three months' time. We therefore welcomed and welcomed the broad consensus in the adoption of the Foreign Policy Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the 2015 Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, and today we are accepting a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union from 2021 to 2024. As a rule, the declarations so far referred to the 18-month period of the presidency of the Council of the EU, but in accordance with the agreement between the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission, which entered into force in May 2016, the Presidents of the three institutions signed for the first time on 11 December 2020 an agreement establishing multiannual work planning in the institutions of the European Union for the period 2020 to 2024. The specified time period also coincides with the mandate of the European Parliament and the European Commission, which is why in New Slovenia we support the duration of the strategic agenda in support of Christian Democrats because this will increase clarity on the key priorities for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. The National Assembly does not lose any sovereignty over the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, since, in accordance with Article 5 of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, the Government must report at least once a year to the National Assembly on the situation in the European Union and the situation of Slovenia in it. Christian Democrats welcome the additional debate and call on other parliamentary groups to hold more joint debates in this Chamber of Democracy on the future of Slovenia and the European Union. The Preamble Declaration recognises the European Union as a unique project of international integration on the old continent, which we must preserve and bring back to the idea of the great-grandfather Robert Schuman and his fellow thinkers. Furthermore, we must take care of a new impetus for the European Union, where we will jointly strengthen the capacity of the economy, and of the Member States in the face of global crises. The key part of the declaration document deals with six priority areas of the Republic of Slovenia. In our political agenda, Christian Democrats pay a great deal of attention to the economy, so we welcome the first point of referring to measures for the sustainable recovery of the Slovenian economy. Strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises as the backbone of the economy is important mainly in the field of digital transformation. The Declaration also pays particular attention to small and family farms and to sustainable production of safe and quality food. We stress the effective and flexible implementation of modern European cohesion policy and the instrument for the recovery of the new generation of the European Union. The invisible enemy has taught us that Europe needs more cooperation in the field of health, which we must achieve together with regular coordination at European Union level, the preparation of a common European health strategy and the most important, greater accessibility of all citizens and citizens to quality and safe health services. In point 3, the declaration refers to the protection of citizens and their freedoms, supports the strengthening of the cooperation of Member States and institutions in the field of crisis management, particularly in the event of natural disasters. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the full functioning of the Schengen area, while at the same time defending the free movement of people, goods, capital and services within the European Union. As a citizen of the border municipality, I am aware that we need a new agreement on an effective migration and asylum policy, with which the European Union could respond in a predictable and timely manner to crisis situations. The resolution builds on the will of citizens, as it advocates cooperation between the European Union and NATO, especially in the field of military mobility. We are pleased that the Republic of Slovenia, in its declaration, supports countries in its neighbourhood in their efforts to become a member of the European Union. We believe that measures to bridge the development gap between the European Union and the countries of the Western Balkans are crucial, especially in order to ensure positive prospects for young people in the region and to stop their eviction. Slovenia and the wider association must work towards strengthening the common foreign policy and deepening transatlantic ties in the future. Our country must act strategically, strengthen unity and the ability to represent its own interests, values and principles on a global scale. The 15 countries of the Asia-Pacific region, with China's first signed, have signed the largest free trade agreement of 30% of GDP in the world, so the European Union must no longer waste time and, following the agreement reached between the European Union and Canada and Japan, must resume negotiations with the United States of America as soon as possible. The last point of the declaration supports the greater effectiveness of the functioning of the institutions of the European Union under existing core treaties, in particular in the decision-making process improvement mechanism. The European Union has been built on the slogan “United in diversity” and we must therefore strive to understand the specific situation and vital differences of each Member State. In conclusion, the declaration does not forget the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and presents it briefly. The final plan cannot yet be met because the work of the Tria of the Presidency is a dynamic thing, but it is difficult already to anticipate the way of the Portuguese Presidency. The invisible enemy covid-19 showed us how quickly the priorities of the country, the European Union and even the world could change, which had to become more flexible and very flexible. That is why we support the declaration, which is short and simple, and in particular very clear, as were the key documents that we have already adopted in the past in the Republic of Slovenia and are key in our democracy. These are the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Declaration on Foreign Policy and the Strategy for Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the Code of Ethics in the National Assembly. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will unanimously support the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Reich, who will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u18	Honorable President, esteemed colleague, esteemed council! By their weight, the Republic of Slovenia is one of the small countries on the international map. We are also a small player in foreign politics. However, this does not mean that, with a successful domestic foreign policy in international relations, we cannot provide a stronger voice. I repeat, successful domestic and foreign policies, which are inseparably linked, are key. The internal political situation in Slovenia goes beyond its territory and undermines quite a few democratic standards and the foreign policy standings enshrined in the declaration. And if Slovenia's foreign policy influence is marginal on the international floor, Slovenia's influence in the internal political sense is much greater when we talk about the quality of democracy, the rule of law, freedom of the media. Our influence in the region and in the world therefore depends on maintaining democratic standards at home. That some of them are going back under this government, Brussels has now come to light. But let's go in one order at a time. The Declaration directing the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union is a document that goes beyond the mandate of this Government as it provides guidance for the period 2021-2024. As Foreign Minister Anže Logar has repeatedly pointed out on the Committee's presentation, this declaration is a strategic framework for work planning in specific areas. The practice so far has been adopted declarations for the 18-month period and the declaration now covers the period until the end of the European Union strategic agenda. In the SAB, too, we believe that it would be more appropriate to indicate the period from May 2021 to June 2022 than to commit this declaration to a future government which, of course, will not necessarily be the same as it is now. Next. When a man reads a declaration, he gets the feeling that the paper carries everything. Among other things, it is stated that Slovenia is a strong advocate of the rule of law, that we stress the independence of the judiciary, that we support the membership of the Western Balkan countries in the European Union and that we also strengthen the rule of law there, that we belong to the European idea and could also mention it. However, do you not think that the declaration in relation to recorded and internal political developments is a two-faced and simple farce? I would be concerned about what the European way of life represents for right-wing provenance. What's that? Does taking into account the specific historical context of the Member States, which requires different measures to strengthen the rule of law, automatically constitute a violation of it? Because that's how you read it. Next. Slovenia's support for the enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkans has been a permanent feature of Slovenian foreign policy for more than two decades, but Slovenia seems to be simply unable to be a positive example by its actions. Former Croatian Prime Minister and conservative HDZ Jadranka Kosor said that Slovenia is moving away from the fundamental values of the European Union under the government of Janez Janša. To this government, therefore, it is not only the Slovenian opposition that is critical; they are also concerned elsewhere. Finally, the European Parliament also shook the state of freedom of the Slovenian media. Instead of becoming the model of Slovenia to the Balkans as we have always been, we are obviously becoming more and more like the Balkans, the Slovenian diplomat estimates. I simply do not see how, after everything that is going on at home, we can share with these countries the advice on strengthening democracy, the rule of law, pluralism and media freedom. That's not how it works. We are also surprised that so few words are spoken in the declaration to the Presidency of Slovenia and are so general. One of our main comments is that the Government has completely neglected health and social rights in the declaration. It is therefore neglected to act for the European Pillar of Social Rights, which the current European Commission has on a priority agenda. Dearly beloved, I would really like Slovenia's role in foreign policy to be strengthened, to implement consistent and uniform foreign policy, to set clear goals and to increase our visibility. Unfortunately, this declaration does not reflect; it is too ambitious; there are too many duplicity and untruths in relation to internal political developments. In the SAB, for all the reasons mentioned above, we will not support the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! The Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union covers political orientations that will contribute to easier planning, greater stability and efficiency of the work of the ministries. Slovenia is part of a much larger story that, in co-existence with other countries, enables faster development and security in the world. One of the last cases that proves greater security in the number is no doubt the covida-19 epidemic. A virus that has caused untold consequences in the population and the economy could cause an even greater financial disaster to individual countries. It is therefore important that, in cooperation with all members of the European space, we act together to recover from the crisis and, of course, further progress. During the constructive debate, the Committees of the National Assembly have repeatedly heard that the document before us is not ambitious enough, but that it is intended to set longer and more structured objectives, but that plans in the future will have to be adapted to the demands of time. A year ago, almost no one could have imagined that there would be practically a whole world in the lockdown. The economy remained literally overnight when it turned out to be much more dangerous than we thought. Despite never being able to prepare ourselves in full for unforeseeable events, it is our job to include events of such a global dimension in all future plans of action. In the Green Policy of the Desus Group, we believe that Slovenia could take a step further. We must focus our own interests on the European Union's long-term strategic framework. The carbonisation or reduction of our environmental footprint should be one of the key tasks after recovery. Slovenia does not maintain a footprint within acceptable borders, which creates an imbalance between demand and the biological capacity of self-renewal. We must also continue to tackle the challenges of creating jobs with high added value, ageing societies and creating new development opportunities for young people. In the Desus Group, it seems appropriate for us to show our ability to plan for years in advance. We have also set ourselves a goal within the framework of real capabilities that we can actually achieve. Over-ambitiousness on the European floor wouldn't do us any favors. As part of the implementation of the plan, we will be able to align our domestic debates with the political and legislative cycle at European Union level. In their work, the ministries will thus have concrete support and key political orientations in co-operation with other Member States. In the Desus Group we will support the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024. The proposed declaration adopts fundamental policy orientations on strategic issues to be met by the Republic of Slovenia in further deciding on the procedures for the adoption of individual legislative acts and other European Union documents during the period 2021-2024. The six priority areas of operation of the Republic of Slovenia envisaged by the declaration under the current legislative cycle of the institutions of the European Union pay particular attention to: the sustainable recovery and stability of the economy; the strengthening of economic and social cohesion in the European Union; the protection of citizens and their freedoms, including the strengthening of the resilience of the Union and its members to crises; the promotion of the interests and values of the European Union in the neighbourhood and the world and the continuation of the enlargement process; the strengthening of the common foreign policy and the deepening of transatlantic ties and the effective functioning of links. The relaunch of the European economy is an opportunity to consolidate stability, resilience and prosperity in Europe and to increase its role at the global stage. This can only be achieved in the light of economic, social and global demographic changes if we are able to ensure long-term sustainable and inclusive growth and increase the cohesion of the European space. The Republic of Slovenia strongly supports efforts to further deepen the economic and monetary union and strengthen its resilience. As a Member State with a highly export-oriented economy, the Republic of Slovenia is a strong advocate for strengthening the internal market. The removal of barriers that hoard the full functioning of the internal market should be continued. Greater investment in digital transformation is essential to strengthen the competitiveness of the European economy and society's willingness to face modern challenges. Investment in education, research and innovation and their important contribution to sustainable solutions for everyday life are a very important element of the green and digital transition. The covida-19 pandemic has deepened the differences in the economic and social cohesion of the European space, and solidarity and a just exit from the crisis are crucial. The Republic of Slovenia, in the recovery process, pays particular attention to the effective and flexible implementation of modern European cohesion policy and the instrument for the recovery of the New Generation of the European Union. The European Union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law and human rights. The Republic of Slovenia supports efforts aimed at protecting and enforcing these values, and it is important to promote and strengthen the European way of life. The European Union needs a more comprehensive, efficient and ambitious crisis management approach. The Republic of Slovenia supports the strengthening of the cooperation of the Member States and the institutions of the European Union in this area and the upgrading of the operating system, which will ensure a better common response of the European Union in crisis situations. In doing so, it supports efforts to establish a broad-based strategic forecasting system for the European Union. It is of paramount importance for the Republic of Slovenia that the European Union continues to pay particular attention to its immediate neighbourhood, the countries of the Eastern Partnership, the Mediterranean region and the countries of the Western Balkans that have a promising membership in the European Union. The Republic of Slovenia supports the enlargement process and the membership of the Western Balkan countries in the European Union, and therefore actively encourages countries in the region to implement the necessary reforms and to do their utmost to meet the conditions for membership in the European Union, thus actively helping to achieve this common objective and to respect their commitments. In the interest of the European Union, an open, ambitious, sustainable and rule-based trade policy that opposes various forms of protectionism and, while maintaining European and international standards already achieved, advocates a level playing field and works in the interests of its citizens. An effective multilateral trading system, strategic partnerships, ambitious trade investment agreements and effective implementation of measures must be a key segment of the common trade policy. We are in favour of a trade agreement with the United States of America. One of the priorities remains the continued multilateral cooperation of the European Union with the transatlantic allies, with the United States of America and Canada, and we will also support enhanced transatlantic cooperation in the context of the continuation of various multilateral initiatives such as the Three Seas Initiative. The stronger and more effective response of the European Union to the increasingly changing situation in Europe and the world calls for an improvement in its effectiveness. We have before us the second Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. The Republic of Slovenia intends to carry out its task in a responsible, effective, impartial manner and in the spirit of good cooperation and belonging to the European idea. The National Assembly also plays an important role in the implementation of this national project. The Presidency of the Council of the European Union is an excellent opportunity to demonstrate the ability of all stakeholders in the Republic of Slovenia to participate effectively in a Presidency project that is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and the wider European Union. At the same time, the Presidency is an opportunity to enhance the promotion of Slovenian culture and lifestyles, cultural heritage, scientific achievements, creativity and innovation in other areas of natural heritage, tourism, culinary in domestic and international cultural space. The Declaration makes it clear that Slovenia wants to be a responsible member of the European Union and not only does it have no observer. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that Slovenia is returning to the diplomatic map after many years. In the last year, Janez Janša's government year, Slovenia has re-energised neighbourhood and regional ties both in Central Europe and in the Mediterranean. In his work, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Ange Logar, re-established the partnership in the European Union and Slovenia, has restored the international reputation that she once enjoyed. We returned to a country where we were gone for a decade. Over the last 365 days, more than 50 meetings were held at home and abroad. For the first time since 2012, the Foreign Minister has visited neighbouring Croatia, which has helped to improve poor relations between countries. A bilateral visit by the Italian Foreign Minister also took place for the first time since 2007. In one year, foreign ministers from the United States, Germany, France and all neighbouring countries also visited Slovenia. During Mike Pompe's first visit to the U.S. Secretary after 23 years, we also concluded an important strategic agreement with the United States of America. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union from 2021 to 2024 is based on sound and concise thinking. The purpose of the declaration is to ensure the uniform and targeted direction of Slovenia's operations in the institutions of the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024 is good and represents a movement forward in terms of quality in relation to the previous declarations adopted. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the proposal for a declaration. The word is Nik Prebil, get ready for Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u24	President, thank you so much for your word. Friends and colleagues, hello! Good day to you all! In my opinion, the document before us is neither D from the declaration nor S from the guidelines. Why am I saying this? Because it is a general document that does not specify the content and objectives that Slovenia wants to achieve. I'll be critical of that today. I will not be critical because this is a document prepared by this government, but as I say, I will be critical because, in my opinion, the content or objectives we achieve are not sufficiently clearly defined. Among the views it has been said that it is difficult to predict what the Portuguese Presidency will do, but it is difficult to predict the six-month course of the Portuguese Presidency for the Slovenian Presidency. You are contradictory to yourself if you then prepare a document covering comfort for two years after the end of the Slovenian Presidency. By then, you'll know how it's gonna go? That's a weird thing. That is why the document has so far been prepared for a six-month period of the presidency of the Tria Presidency, although I can understand your desire to coordinate with the mandate of the European Commission and the European Parliament. You have clearly seen that a crisis like the one we are facing today can change priorities very quickly. I am clear and firmly convinced that the document prepared by the previous government, the government of Marjan Šarc, today would be completely different, because no one expected the crisis to befall us and that we will be in the situation we are in. You've done well in certain areas. I'll be real here. Some areas are neglected. Again, others are highly domestically oriented and highly complemented by the ideology of the largest government party. In my opinion, in a document aimed at the European Union, such a thing has absolutely nothing to look for. I have already discussed the short-term and long-term objectives of Slovenia's foreign policy at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. One of the short-term ones was this, i.e. the declaration that had been adopted for the 18-month period of the three Presidencies. Long-term orientations, i.e. those adopted by the Law on Foreign Policy and Declaration or Strategy on the External Action of our country, are what binds us for a long time and can be significantly more general than such a matter can be. I have no objection to the fact that the matter is short, clear and simple, that's good, but the problem is if it's not clear and it's short and general. Then we get in trouble when we don't have those clear directions at least in the short term. We've heard some reports that there have been things in there that have been repeating over the years. It is perfectly logical that there are things in the documents that repeat over the years, as the orientations in the Union do not change from today to tomorrow. Some things in foreign policy remain the same regardless of which government steps into the policy field, but some are those that the government has a bit of an adjustment every time. Let me go on with this ambition. Documents like this can be ambitious. This is not, but they can be ambitious, but they must, of course, be realistic so that what we can write can also be achieved. I have seen too many times that we put into documents things that sound good, things that probably touch on some of the European Union's guidelines, and then we fail to achieve those goals, because we are not able to produce in the country of marriage which would implement these things. I really ask myself in all this, I have not received the answer to this question until today, what exactly is the goal of our country. I didn't hear that either when we discussed the Recovery and Resistance Plan, not when we're talking about such documents. What exactly is the future we want as a member of this family of the European Union and what as a member of this Union can we offer the whole Union to improve the future? What's where we want to go, where we're gonna make progress? Is this the part that talks about the future of the EU, that is, the conference on the future of Europe, or is that the part that we are talking about more than the necessary economic breakthrough and development, or is that all? Where are young people in these areas, i.e. those with a lot of attention from the European Union, Slovenia is a little less concerned? This area is neither in this document nor in that which touches the conference on the future of Europe. You have listed six priority areas of operation of the Republic of Slovenia. What the European Union is dedicated to, Slovenia is not fully committed to in these six priorities. This is also one of the problem areas. If I limit myself to just one matter, point 5, strengthening the common foreign policy and deepening transatlantic ties – great, this is absolutely excellent, but some things are missing in this area. Where are the other rulers, who are given more attention by the whole Union? It was China mentioned, and then there's India, for example. These are units, countries, forces that make up a substantially larger number of populations than Slovenia or as formed by the Union. The Union, as an actor in the international field, will have to step up cooperation with all countries, most likely with Russia. I agree that when it comes to violating those fundamental values, what the EU is actually committed to, what has also been created must not be taken into account as a condition of some economic cooperation. This is what we have to be unconditional about, and that is probably why certain sanctions are also imposed against these countries. But it is that they are released from documents that, as it is said, are also focused on the foreign policy area and given that the United States is exposed, probably a matter worth considering. In point 6, you refer to the preservation of the independence of the institutions of the European Union. I could totally agree with that or agree with it, but you write a lot of things that you read well, and you do less of that or write what you really do. The independence of the institutions of the European Union depends to a large extent on the independence of the institutions in the Member States. This independence of institutions, at least certain, has fallen under this government, the government of Janez Janša. That's a fact. Speaking of, let's say that some data collection in a Member State is independent and is recorded away from every single government after it reaches out, this is no longer an independent data at the level of the European Union. As a matter of fact, let what is written do as well. One of the problems that we have pointed out to many colleagues is that we are talking about – I will read: “At the same time also take into account the specific historical context of the Member States, which requires a different approach and measures to strengthen the rule of law.” This phrase in itself shows a clear misunderstanding of the concept of the rule of law in this government. We all know that the rule of law as such depends heavily on international law. International law and European Union law are created by Member States through their own legal system. But the rule of law as such means that no one is above the law, so it is the right thing to do. Everyone answers on the basis of the same laws that are passed in a democratically elected institution, such as Parliament, in which Members are decided on behalf of the people, of course, on the basis of the clarity and determination of these laws. So the rule of law as such exists only if you have a rule of law and you have a democracy. As it is said, under the principle of clarity and certainty, we have already seen in all the laws of the CAP that there is no clarity, and even less certainty, we are in conflict with these interests and interests of the rule of law, because the law is not as it should be after the constitution. At the same time, human rights go hand in hand with the rule of law and democracy. These are still what they must be in Slovenia for the time being, but unfortunately not in some other Member States. Here the European Union is neither resilient nor, in my opinion, under-responsible. The rule of law in the whole of the European Union is no longer what it should be or does not achieve all of what I mentioned earlier. The rule of law as such is therefore uniform and is everywhere the same and should be respected. Therefore, as it is said, such a sentence is totally inappropriate and suggests a misunderstanding of the whole situation. To conclude that I won't be too long. Minister Logar said at the meeting, when we had this declaration discussed, that this is now being extended because of the European Commission, because of the harmonisation of legislative proposals, although we do not know what will happen, because then there is always something new to be seen and that we are still getting all the materials and positions to be dealt with by the EU Affairs Committee. I do not think I need to point out that a practice is being established, this has happened several times in this mandate of John Janša, that the position has been sent only for an introduction or even this consideration has not been carried out and the matter has come to the National Assembly subsequently. I wish that, at least when we are talking about foreign policy or European Union matters, we will overcome these divisions, particularly those of the internal policy, which, in particular, are exported to the international field by the SDS. I think that this is not good for Slovenia and that, at least in documents such as this, if the declaration is to be, we should write things down very clearly and precisely and also strategically, at least in the part that we can provide at this time. As it is said, however, a long-term foreign policy orientation is one way or another enshrined in the law and in the declaration and strategy of Slovenia's foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get ready for Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! Having a country also means being able to think about yourself, including foreign policy, or, if you want, those specific parts of something that I think more of than internal policy, which is what we are dealing with today. We have a agenda item on the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in a certain period of time. We do not have before us a proposal for a declaration on the functioning of the Government, on the functioning of the coalition, or, if you wish, on the functioning of Janez Janša and Logar or SDS in the institutions of the European Union. In some societies and countries which think themselves, there is generally a broad consensus on these declarations and policies. Come on, you may have a different opinion on some far right and far left fields on the theater between some political lunarity, if I may say so. We have a condition, you know, today we are 23 March 2021 and in position a representative of the largest government coalition party boasts of Pompeii's visit to us. That also says a lot. If you have listened to this position, a large part of it has been a glimpse of the EU of unsustainable warriors, if I say so, we will wave a little more with a stick. Then we have been listening for a year now, unfortunately not only in Slovenia, but mostly where the populist policy has been plagued by the epidemic, how the epidemic is an excuse. An epidemic can't be an excuse. The epidemic requires more opinions, no less opinions. It requires what they did in Slovenia's largest municipality, Kočevje, for example, how to organize yourself for vaccination, and then you have three inspections. The fact that a document in its form is short does not mean that it has to be completely anemic. When I listened to you, these views, I wrote Kukla Kešerović here, perhaps some of you know her by the name and surname of Katarina Rešek. If she had made this declaration on 12 pages and turned it into a four-and-a-half minute video clip, she would have sprayed the contents out, so much so that they would say: wow, fak! And we'd know who or what Slovenia is. The fact is that we have not had much serious foreign policy in the last 30 years. At first it was a story, yeah, we'll come to a club. After we came to some club, the EU, we thought, because now we don't have to think. The consequences are actually here today. There is no secret that we have a strong broad world of foreign policy and EU policy in renewed social democracy. There is no secret that in this world there are probably five generations ago than four generations of people, from people who are very well acquainted with diplomacy to some young Europeans and Europeans, if I may say so. Based on this knowledge and early science, we wanted to give some content on this very modest skeleton. You know, just because we are relatively small by number of inhabitants across territory does not necessarily mean that we are a minority in European policy, which, of course, with the current government, we regret. Foreign policy is not tourism. Foreign policy isn't how many times Logar went somewhere, but how many times did someone come in? I also meet with a friend for just a few years or not, and we have good and meaningful relationships. Both in politics and beyond. It seems so terrible to me that we have to talk about the rule of law in this way and relativize it somehow. Historical specifics – please! Then someone will say, yes, in Styria sometimes – even the desire can be confirmed from a young age – on what kind of fun with a screwdriver it was a Styrofoam ikebana. Now we're going to introduce this as historical specificity, and we're going to say, on our side of Troy, can you come to the election with the screwdriver? I'm a bit of a cartoonist. And also the rule of law, all this story about the Maribor pubes and the students and the students unfortunately shows that both the SMC and the Levica have problems with the rule of law, not just the SDS and anyone else, which is explained nicely by Ali Jerdin in the two Saturday annexes, and it is a little sad that this should be explained to the politician by the editor of the Saturday annex, with all due respect for him. In this declaration I would also like to see a little more reflection on the role of the European Parliament versus the European Commission. In this declaration, I would like to see a more serious reflection on subsidiarity, on the relationship between the national countries and the association we belong to, not in the right-wing extremism, but on the more concrete and clear wording on the social dimension of the European Union – something that has started to be a little more serious in Sweden already 2017, but it is somehow very frightening – not some radically right-wing knitting about the European way of life. Especially those who define themselves as God-fearing, Christian Democrats, which they themselves would not then deceive themselves, “we ordered vaccines, we did not order vaccines”, would not have this story, with masks, not only with us, but also in Germany and elsewhere. But of course, we now have some feudalist view of what is formally still a constitutional parliamentary democracy. Since this government, I've been listening to how I can't live because I'm not at the trough. I easily live with this, take responsibility as a Member, and there is no narrowly written that there is a difference between us by responsibility. And even here, when you're not comfortable with it, you'd be dropping someone off through some working body of the National Assembly, where that's not going to work, because you can't do that either, as the Legal and Legal Service has told you. But not through some commission, where: "wow, gentlemen, you have no majority, sorry God." That's just some historical specificity you're obviously trying to introduce. I don't know if the next term, if you're in power, I don't know if you're going to drop the football selector through the Defence Committee? As crazy as the whole story goes, I wouldn't be surprised. There's no clear expression of the social pillar in there. It is not clear about young people who will pay for the country's indebtedness for 60 years. The green that I love you, the green one, in the visionary way that I paint you gray — I prefer not to mention you at all. If a person thinks about how this grey that you will obviously burn, because for the time being, you still have some modest majority in the National Assembly, in practice with these and such people, especially I think about Logar and Janša – please stop being a fool. Here comes that famous Lincoln – how did she go? - How much time can you put on people? For a short time, you can stretch quite a few people, you can constantly very few people, and most of you can't stretch what you want for a long time. When I was preparing for this today, I started this morning with Dinner, page 18, View, What are you leaving for, investor?, Mrs. Suzanne Filipančič, Korošica, Vice-President of the Board for Strategic takeovers in Grammer, the German global company in the automotive industry. She somehow concludes her thinking, quote: “The following question must also be asked: How to act at the level of the country in order to avoid such situations in the future? It is the responsibility of the State to provide the answer in the form of a clear, regularly verified professional (non-political) vision, strategy and strategy." Well, I don't agree with her in part here, because expertise and politics are not exclusive. But yes, with such a policy, even with such relations to declarations, with so low criteria, the exit strategies of the companies – according to her household, she mentions here that if she wants to go out in Spain the company will have to pay four times more workers than Slovenia. These are some of the topics that we should think and think about in such short documents, which are more definitely written in them. But of course, you know, Slovenia is one unfortunately too often not an excessively large dysfunctional family. After all, the people of Youth, who are actually this foh that this country has been paying us for decades, have told us that they think these and such documents, that they have been somehow pushed to the sidelines in the design of this document. If I am very honest, more than what you will sign and bless here, I am concerned about the action that will not only be squandering beyond some crippling, but “now we are presiding” but the action that will have in the medium term and already have a number of negative consequences that will have to deal with at least two governments of the following full mandates. There is also no serious consideration in this declaration and beyond as to how the future of Europe and the European Union will be considered in spite of the epidemic. We'll probably hear again that there were 500 people at some zoo, and seven of them were talking, five of them nodding about what kind of benign document of the current government, and it's going to be kind of awesome. You know, unfortunately, I often criticize the work of our EU Affairs Committee because it is one of the least active within the European Union – I have been on so many bilaterals, I have been talking – which also shows our attitude towards our key policy. The vast majority of legislation begins to be cooked in the form of directives, as we say, in Brussels. Here, tomorrow we will have the Minister's interpretation, currently there are a lot of directives in the field of media, but not in the way of digitising yes or no, I would also like to have a debate like that, after all, a problem with hostile speech, including the way of regulating global groups, if you want, even the fact that we have to go into algorithms and understanding – that I will not be taken too far in the direction of Franz Breznik and 4.0 – in which I would like to be in such a document. But, of course, that Friday's committee is an insult to God and you are very pleased that if I'm not on it, today's "debate" is appropriate. I am pleased that soon there will be a different and different government, including some young people who we are educating in the fields of European policies, who will be able to listen to mentors and tutors in the process of intergenerational transfer of knowledge and who, as I am jokingly saying, will be looking for, without Mojca Mavec, not only those with whom the brothers are in some retrograde and backwardness of the current European policy, but those with whom we will build a future Europe together. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word, prepares Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. With the document under consideration today, this is a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions, it is right to ask ourselves first what European Union we want to be aware that, as a full member, we have both the right and the obligation and the duty to co-create the European Union in some way since 2004, to co-create. Another big or added value will contribute to our second presidency in the second half of this year. It is right to be aware, on the one hand, of our options and of the obligations arising from our membership. The priorities of how we will co-create the European Union in the future are given in this document in the form of six key points. In any event, the first thing that hit us a year ago is the recovery from the covid pandemic. In this context, of course, the strategic approach that the European Union will increase its resilience to possible new shocks in the form of a pandemic or any other natural or any other disaster. Economic recovery is the one that will help us to get out of all of this. However, any problem can also be a new opportunity for a transition to better practices, thus also a solution towards a green, digital one. This is the direction followed by the Republic of Slovenia in this declaration. I would like to mention here that we already have in the current composition of the European Commission, the European Commissioner for Crisis Management, who manages quite a large, important part and co-creates responses at European level so that recovery is as good as possible. However, the area of his work is not only postcovid recovery, we are still facing a broader problem of migration. I am pleased to point out that Mr Lenarčič will also be one of the main guests of the parliamentary conference on the common foreign security and common security and defence policy in early September as part of the parliamentary part of the Presidency. It has already confirmed cooperation on the panel related to resilience in relation to the establishment of new partnerships and the strengthening of existing European Union partnerships. This is said to include an important external policy aspect of the European Union. As far as the internal market is concerned. This is an area in the EU that needs reinforcement. Remember, one of the EU's postulates is the free movement of goods, capital and people. I estimate that it is also necessary to strengthen the free movement of services. This needs to be given special attention in the future. The European Union, as a global actor, must be more ambitious both in relation to the attitude towards the enlargement process, and we think first of all about the Western Balkans. This is an area with great European aspirations, and you are also looking forward to economic, political, democratic progress by bringing the EU closer. On the other hand, the EU must also recognise the strategic position of this area, also give a positive signal or an incentive to these countries, including in order to counter the influences of other superpowers in this area. We need to know that the EU, as a global actor with the United States of America, is some kind of promoter of democracy in the world, respect for human rights, rule of law, while other important global actors do not pay much attention. Here is the US natural ally of the European Union, even with the new President and with the new administration. Just a little bit about the document that's in front of us. I welcome that a short, robust approach has been taken, that the time period covered by this document has been extended to the current European Union legislative cycle, and that such an approach will allow our country to be more oriented, more focused in representing its interests and also affecting the implementation of policies in the EU. These are longer-term policy orientations, which will give key ministries a still broader opportunity, and also facilitate planning to make implementation more effective in the end. As an added value in view of the extended time period here, I see that it is envisaged that the Government will report annually on the implementation of this declaration in the National Assembly, so that the parliamentary part will also be adequately informed of developments and current developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Eva Irgle, Mr Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We now have before us a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period 2021-2024. This is a document prepared by the Government at this point in time, but it is a fundamental difference, namely that this document is prepared, or these guidelines and guidelines, which are also guidance on how ministries should operate in the institutions of the European Union, are made for a substantial period of time. As a result, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Committee on Foreign Policy said that the coordination of this document in the Government took a considerable longer period. I listened attentively to the debate on both the key committees for this declaration, as well as the debate held so far by Members and Members of Parliament, particularly the opposition ones. I repeat that you are spinning around two senses, that this is a non-ambitious document and that it is a political document and a hidden agenda within this political document. As for the non-ambitiousness of the document, let me say that this is depressed and, above all, it absolutely does not. The point is that this document is a strategic document, it is a content document, it is very short, so you can all read it and you can see what I'm talking about, it has clear objectives and it's very long. If you consider it to be an unambitious document that it is not 200 pages long, then we can also call it non-ambitious, but the content is essential and the essential objectives are clear, which have already been presented several times today. They were taken very well in the first place by the proposer, i.e. the President of the Government. I would now focus on the very content of the document, namely three aspects. I will talk about the strategic challenges which the European Union is sure to be aware of, which are before us, then on cyber security and on the Presidency of the European Union. The European Union is certainly facing important strategic challenges, in particular with regard to the covida-19 epidemic and the consequences that this epidemic has on all segments of society. All the Member States of the European Union, which is beautifully written within this declaration, are working somehow on the exit strategy and on some plan for sustainable recovery after the epidemic. This is therefore a key issue for all members of the European Union at the moment. Here I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done a great deal of work, a good job also by increasing visits between states, between politicians, between countries, to exchange views in this area, good practices, then, of course, countries can exchange them. Surely there are great trials ahead of all of us and even before the whole European Union. We are now in a particularly important period, because we will also be chairing the European Union. Surely, for the European Union, which is our common space, in which we are undoubtedly connected at different levels, there is also a great challenge to new security issues. I have already raised the so-called issue of cybersecurity on the Committee on Foreign Policy. I personally think that in these years Slovenia has not been aware enough of what this means. I am pleased that today, the President of the Government has devoted quite some time to this subject. The fact is that Slovenia will soon preside over the European Union and thus the automatic state will somehow become a bigger target. Above all, we can say that given that cyber security has not been devoted to virtually no attention in recent years, such a country is also, of course, significantly more vulnerable to cyber attacks. Just remember China, Russia, Iran, which are very offensive in this area, are very strong in terms of cyber attacks. Here the country must in some way be protected, even if we know that the country which will preside over the European Union will have access to all the key NATO-related documents to the European Union. Here I think there will also be a little more discussion on this subject in the National Assembly. What is crucial, however, is the active approach to the protection of critical infrastructure in Slovenia. One last point, with regard to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I am pleased that Slovenia will chair the European Union for the second time. This is the first time we've done very well, what a good, excellent job. We have been told this several times on the European floor. The experience of the first presidency is of paramount importance. The other Member States of the European Union now know that they can trust us that the Presidency will be successful and not least aimed at strengthening European values. Of course, the Presidency can also be a promotion for the country, but it is true that we have unfortunately found ourselves in such circumstances, in a situation where the primary task is to get the most out of the way and to wash away the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. However, there will also be opportunities where we can present and show the achievements of Slovenian culture, science, the promotion of tourism, we have a natural heritage. In short, there are many opportunities where we can represent our country with great quality, content and well. At the end of the day, all I would say is this: given that my colleagues will continue to talk, I have to give them some time – so that we can somehow unify ourselves in the Presidency on foreign policy, otherwise it is good if we do. But lately we can see that some stories are going abroad, somehow being exported completely without need. No need, just to bring them back to the internal political space and to deal with this government on the basis of this. I hope that we will all gather so much wisdom together that we will indeed be looking out for the good of this country in the Presidency, and we will all work together in this direction unitedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First he gets the word Dr. Duck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Of course, I agree with my colleague Irgle that it is an essential substance. We have also come from this and have proposed a substantially rich amendment to this document, and our content has been taken into account – zero. At the same time, the colleague points out that for the first time, it is somehow a mistake for me to work for four years, but at the same time I said earlier that all the people in the primary byte, where this is done, in Mladika, have not been taken into account. If it is an essential content, I would expect such an important short document to have at least the rank of Minister here, if not the President of the Government, and, with all due respect, that our improvement in the content listens to and is not taken into account only by the Secretary of State. If we're talking about wisdom, I'd say that this wisdom is missing on your side of the street, and unfortunately this document, if I make a little joke, will be significantly worse than the pussycat bowa that Irgl currently wears on her blouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u33	Thank you so much for that original replica. There's also Mr. Prebil's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to replicate to my colleague. No one talked about the length of this document. If you listened to me correctly, as you said, then you heard me say that it's no problem that the matter is short if it's clear and specific, which unfortunately it's not. You also misunderstood me in the debate when I spoke about the short-term orientations of foreign policy. If it were a strategic document, it would be a strategy. This is not because we already have one such strategy, and this is a long-term strategy that is described in that document I mentioned earlier. However, it could be a short-term strategic document, if there was anything strategic about it, but it is not, but only some general provisions. I can agree, colleague, with you when you're talking about the presidency. I also wish the presidency could run well and unitedly. However, I am afraid that this will be very difficult for you to achieve with all these international setbacks, which the President of the Government in particular enjoys, and with some breakdown of this unity on your part in particular. And then only half of the parties that mention the Presidency in this document as one of the most important issues of this document are, in my opinion, really few, given that the guidelines or updated guidelines under the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia have not yet been addressed by this National Assembly, and until the Presidency are only a few months away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Igor Peček has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! As is customary in this house, we look at the same document from different angles of view, which is perfectly right. Even more so, we should remain objective in this regard. I have never challenged the length of the document by stating the number of pages, but in certain parts of this document I am particularly concerned about the content. We are united, at least to the extent that it has been understood from the discussions today and on the committees before, that the declaration must be based on the key documents that set out the long-term strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, these are certainly the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia, the 2015 Declaration on Foreign Policy and the European Union Strategic Agenda. However, these documents are only and only the starting point and the declaration must, in my opinion, be an upgrade to all these three documents. It is also true that the declaration is a political document, which we have heard several times today, but also a political document, regardless of which government accepts it, must be a political consensus, which is also based on professional content. In particular, because of clearly recorded views, which all those who will have this option are clearly represented outside the borders of our Republic of Slovenia, and also at home. It is precisely for this reason that this proposal for a declaration should define more clearly the objectives that the Republic of Slovenia wishes to achieve. I still believe, as I have also said in my view, that it is too general in certain parts, but is certainly prepared and written for too long, regardless of the fact that another practice is now in practice. So far, it has been considered that a declaration or document should be prepared for each three presidencies. We are partly already late, which is probably also due to the epidemic. The declaration exposes six priority areas of action, but the guidelines are set so that the objectives are not sufficiently clear and, above all, the conditions that the Republic of Slovenia will have to meet are not written in such a way that it is clear how we will achieve these objectives. In my position, I have already highlighted the participation of all actors performing in this wider area, both cooperation in the Mercosur area, Sahel, I think they should be highlighted more clearly and more specifically in the declaration. If I continue to point out just a few cases in which these conditions and objectives should be more clearly expressed, it is certainly necessary here to highlight the area of single tax legislation. The Republic of Slovenia should clearly define its origins in the field of digital services and should also be more clear and more ambitious about sustainable trade policy. We are in favour of strategic partnerships, which is right, but for example, if I take just one example, it should also indicate what the objectives are and on what basis, for example, our or the European Union agreement with the United States of America will be based. I've listed only two cases in which I lack clearer guidance. One of them is also how to channel investment in digital transformation by making structural reforms that we want to achieve and which are a condition for achieving a development breakthrough based on the recommendations of the European Commission, which we are very keen to talk about. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starovic has the floor now, Mr Boris Doblekar is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union for the period 2021-2024, which is still before us in the form of a proposal, has been prepared by the Government on 13 pages. The document, which is the basis for our work in our joint state-building in Europe, is written in a very general way, without clear strategic guidance and clear explanations on how to achieve the objectives and guidelines set for our country's operation in this common country. It is particularly problematic to take into account the fact that Slovenia is just before the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The declaration is in fact very vague and even shorter than the previous one, although the previous one referred to a year and a half. The proposal for this declaration therefore extends for a longer period, which directly means that it also interferes with the functioning of the future government, so this proposal should be based on a larger consensus here in Parliament between political parties, not on strict voting. All the amendments were rejected. Contrary to this, the government has even put in a declaration ideological positions that have nothing to look for in European-oriented documents. Given that we will be chairing the Council of the European Union in the second half of the year, the Government should tell Parliament more precisely what its priorities are in specific areas. The government, however, gives us to accept writing that has no serious commitments and guidelines. If the declarations have in the past responded to the European Commission's work programmes, this declaration is in fact a government reinterpretation of Slovenia's interests and its view of the EU. This reinterpretation, according to previous declarations, is highlighted as reactionary. There is little mention of the green and digital transition, including the issue of the rule of law is addressed very loosely, although on the one hand the Government of Slovenia stands as an excellent advocate of the rule of law. The chapter on fundamental values already expresses a selective view that does not take account of the EU's core treaties. The rule of law is trying to relativise with some specific historical context, which requires a different approach and measures to strengthen the rule of law, and it is not clear what this should be. There is no mention of the development of social rights, although the European Commission and its President Ursula von der Leyen have already made a commitment to the 20 social rights pillar adopted in Europe in their political guidelines for the mandate of the next European Commission and have announced further steps towards the realization of its principles and rights. We don't know anything about that. That is why we cannot support this declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Boris Doblekar, Mr Robert Polnar is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u40	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State! I have previously listened in very detail to the presentation of the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024, or the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, who has withdrawn or completed a very appropriate summary of this declaration, which can, of course, be understood by every citizen or citizen and citizen. It's not gonna look like it's some kind of document that can't be understood. The document is quite short, very substantive, very precise and summarises precisely the direction that is most correct for Slovenia. It should be borne in mind that so far many years have not been made and that some tectonic movements have begun with this government and that it has shown good in the future. It should be said that this is a strategic document with fundamental guidelines, in line with the 2019-2024 strategic agenda, which is therefore linked to the mandate of the new European Commission and the European Parliament, with greater clarity on the key priorities for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. The draft document was considered on all seven working bodies and received majority support on all working bodies competent to deal with this declaration. The State Council also approved this declaration without any further comment. This is also the first declaration following the withdrawal of the Great Britain from the European Union, made in the spirit of fighting the pandemic, notably the main emphasis being on the greater resilience of the European Union to the pandemic – with an emphasis on jobs, the economy, health, agriculture, rural education, digitalisation, the environment and so on – and, of course, on cyber attacks, which are also the greatest threat in the future. I have also listened little to the views of individual political parties in this House. The first position of the Social Democrats, which I have listened to, was very inappropriate, in my view, above all mentioned the various affairs that this party or its President is directing or writing scripts in Europe, and then somehow bringing these things back from Europe to our Parliament and creating confusion and doing nothing good with these false affairs. A modern centre party – a constructive position. The Left had quite a few comments on the form itself, which means the declaration. Clearly, they do not fully understand what the declaration means. First of all, they were embarrassed by the fact that it was not written enough, that it was too short, that it was impersonal and so on, which is totally not true. I would just like to say that you can read in the client's Wikipedia or anywhere that you will know what a declaration means, that it is an act of the National Assembly expressing general views on certain issues of internal and foreign policy and other matters of national importance. The Declaration is not a legally binding act, but represents political views and political orientation for the follow-up and functioning of state, local and other authorities in the country. So it is not true what you said – that either President Janša or this government will be able to do what they want in Europe so that they will not listen to anyone and so on. That's not true, and that's deception and teasing, I don't know what you wanted with it. Maybe people would understand you that way, but I hope they don't. New Slovenia also supports. The SAB stated that health care was neglected in the declaration and so on. Of course, there are many things that are neglected by this party that does not support it, so we will settle these matters. It's constructive in Desus. The Slovenian Democratic Party, which I belong to, of course, supports the declaration and we have actively cooperated with it. However, in LMŠ they express discontent as always after that rifle in the corn, of course they would be very pleased if they could write the declaration themselves, but they do not have these options because they have given up and feel incompetent, so the new government had to take over. All those parties, Members who do not support this declaration, must be told that you do not support the sustainable recovery and stability of the economy, the strengthening of economic and social cohesion in the European Union, the protection of citizens and their freedoms and so on. In short, for all these things that are in the declaration, it is clear that you also do not support them by expressing your support in your position. I believe that Slovenia will take a good step forward. I also wish her much success in the Presidency itself and that most of these substantive matters, which are in the declaration, in later years, by 2024, will also be realized. I believe that Europe is inclined to think as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does. Personally, I am very happy to support this declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar has the following word, Mr Gregor Perič is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! As a rule, the Declaration is principled, sometimes a solemn declaration expressing a position on important public matters or on important public matters. The document we are considering today has several important baselines. The first starting point is the return to the fundamental values of the European Union and the strengthening of the foundations of the European Union. There is clearly a knowledge in Slovenia, not just us, but everywhere else across the European Union, that the foundations of this organisation are strongly dispersed. As things develop, it appears that the European Union will leave the European Union in a short time. After a forced and long-lasting brexit, this could be either a German or a French exit, an exit from Germany or France, two locomotives of European integration. Is this claim exaggerated? The functioning of the European Union is burdened by a number of open issues. It is not possible to achieve unity on any issue, since Germany and France stand out in their views. The European Union is, it cannot be overlooked, in a defensive position against the United States of America, because Europe is never an ally for them unless it submits to the American dictatorship. This shall be publicly or quietly accepted by the majority of the members. Especially those members who have been admitted to the European Union since the break-up of the bipolar Council. Germany and France are resisting this reality, but they cannot prevent it. The European Union's sanctions against Russia, adopted under US pressure, have caused enormous damage to the export potentials of the most developed European countries, but are still valid and are being restored. At the request of the United States of America that Germany and France increase financial participation in NATO, these two responded by predicting the formation of European defence forces, which America and its protectors in the European Union reject. A more lasting solution to the migration crisis is a problem that seriously degrades the European Union. For the systematic and fair distribution of arrived migrants, Germany and France, the countries of the Visegra Group and some others reject this because they were not those who caused problems in the countries of origin of these migrants. Germany and France, in particular, are in favour of halting the enlargement processes of the European Union until the so-called internal stabilisation of relations is achieved. Other countries are of the view that the admission of candidate countries that are largely implementing the reforms under Chapters is a prerequisite for stabilising the continent. The problem of opportunism among the countries of the Visegra Group, in particular Poland, in many open cases seriously burdens the unity in the European Union that Germany and France want to establish for the form. The large differences in the positions of Germany and France and other European Union countries are also expressed as regards the situation in Syria, the breakdown of the internal relations in Libya and the relationship with Turkey, particularly due to the resistance of France and Germany to Turkey's accession to the European Union. This is all, ladies and gentlemen, what is in fact, what is everyday pragmatism, which is faced with all that is stated in the declaration. The second basic is the new impetus of the European Union, the implementation of the European Union strategic agenda from 2019 to 2024 and within this particularly effective and flexible implementation of the multiannual financial framework and the newly adopted recovery instrument as a consequence of the pandemic. The pandemic has pushed us into a deep and inevitable recession, marked the end of a monotheistic fantasy with a continuous decline in reference rates and the transition to fiscal expansion policy. What measures would therefore be most effective to achieve economic efficiency or stability? Fiscal policy must aim to balance the economy at the point of full employment. Such objectives cannot, of course, be defined in the general declaration, but rather in specialised implementation policies. In doing so, long-term capital investments and short-term stabilisation policies need to be distinguished. Capital investments must ensure a stable flow of investment projects independently of business cycles and short-term policies must strengthen automatic stabilisers by providing public sector business. One and the other aims to ensure a certain degree of automation in the management of long-term and short-term demand. It sounds very learned, but it is what we are facing not only as a single country, but also as a member of the European Union. On the inside, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year, we have been faced with a bunch of lies that we have mostly been recklessly agreeing with. Thus, during a period of deep crisis, things that we used to believe were reliable and predictable. The shock of events forces us to begin to understand how unreliable our basic, widely accepted assumptions are. Many are also listed in this declaration. We believed, for good reason, that globalisation had finally disarmed the national states, that the presidents had bowed to capital markets, that the prime ministers had been obsessed with market indices, that the finance ministers had acted as Goldman Sachs' managers, or that the volunteers of the International Monetary Fund, the media, the oil companies, the financiers, even the critics on the left had agreed that national governments no longer have any power, and then the pandemic began. During the night, the nations launched their claws and showed their teeth, closed their borders, forced their planes, imposed all kinds of prohibitions and restrictions. They even did what no one believed could happen before the apocalypse, canceling the world's highest-level sports events. That's how the first secret was revealed. National countries have the power that no one can take from them and how they can take advantage of that power. Last year, we also realized that countries have decided not to take advantage of this power, so that those who have become rich with globalisation can take advantage of their power, but the pandemic has destroyed everything. The second truth, also related to the European monetary union, is that what happened to what many doubted had little hope of saying out loud — that there was a tree where money was growing. Those who keep saying that money doesn't grow in a tree and that governments have to let things go through their own stream just suddenly shut up. Instead of raging over the loss of countries, financial markets have been celebrated to a great extent. And so, within the European Union, it has become a principle that solvency is no longer a matter of financial categories, but a matter of political decision; this is the decision of the leaders of the European Union, the most developed countries in the West. Greece is the best case for this. In 2015, it had an external debt of €320 billion and a national income of €176 billion. Greece's financial problems came to the headlines of all the world's newspapers, and European leaders lauded its insolence greatly. Today, in the midst of a pandemic that has worsened the economic situation, Greek public finances are no longer a problem. According to 2015, public debt increased by €33 billion and gross national income or gross domestic product fell by €13 billion. However, European leaders have decided that the Greek bankruptcy business has been sufficient and have announced Greece's solvency. The European Central Bank will do everything necessary to continue buying Greek government bonds without any restrictions, just so that the issue of Greek solvency does not come to the centre of attention again. These are the objective circumstances in which the European Union operates and which, at least in my humble opinion, are extremely difficult to contain by such an act as the principle declaration. As far as basic guidance is concerned. One of them is the greater effectiveness of the functioning of the institutions of the European Union under the existing core treaties. This is, in view of our current times, still important and necessary for some major intensification. The European Union has fallen unrelentingly. The joint action to halt the spread of the pandemic through the total procurement of vaccines for the vaccination of the European population as a whole has proved to be a complete failure. The European Union has fallen mainly because health has not declared it a priority among its public policies. Jean Monnet, Robert Schuman and the other fathers, the founding fathers of the European Union, can turn to their graves. The Schuman Declaration explicitly states that Europe will not be created at once, but step by step, based on the de facto solidarity that will be realized on the basis of the vital needs of European countries and their citizens. However, in this particular case, the European Commission did not appear energetically and did not obtain the necessary amounts of vaccines. Thus, the Eurocrats became participants in the pharmaceutical industry and its financial speculations, participants in price-leading, slow supply, participants in contracting fraud and concealing the truth about all these works. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is a sign of the disintegration of the European Union, of the apprehension of stitches where life and death are decided, where true solidarity is decided, which is necessary for Europe to survive. Can such critical situations be resolved through declarations? Whatever is written in the document, whether we consider it long enough or not, of course, it is not possible to oppose it at the principal level. Who, for example, can oppose the objective of starting up the European economy; the stability, resilience and well-being of the population resulting from this? How could it be against a strong economic union? Or, for example, strengthening the internal market through established competitiveness of the economy, creating new jobs and, above all, investment activities within economic operators? Is it possible to oppose the goal of a strong, forward-looking industry, of those industries that were once in Europe, but now, after all the ends of the world, it is no longer physically present in Europe? Or how about investing in digital transformation? All of this has to do with political omens and has to do with ideology, but above all, it has to do with ability or incompetence. And above all, it has to do with the evading line before making difficult and unpopular decisions. There'll be nothing to complain and complain about. Strong policy and strong government are appreciated, in our case a strong European Commission. The biggest question, of course, is whether we have it. However, Slovenian representatives and representatives in the institutions of the European Union will be faced with extremely difficult work, so they want particularly good nerves, a great deal of patience and, above all, what is missing from the Slovenian scene is an appropriate measure of decisive cold blood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Prebil has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I have a replica of my previous colleague, Comrade Doblekar. You guys really don't get it. When you talk about us being insulted in LMŠ – stop fooling around, well, please. You are particularly offended, because we would like to be quiet and all of us to follow you. We heard the Prime Minister yesterday: SMC, be quiet! That's your way of doing things. To me, it's a reputation of the state, and you just say yes to everything the boss brings to you, and that's the problem. This is not about opposing any development, because you said: you are against development, you are against green, you are against digitisation, you are against progress. There's one here in this room who would say we're against it. Really, we've had enough of this lying because we've been through this. This is an opposition to your policy, which you are entering into international documents, and far from being opposed to development. However, it is true that you are against the green transition only in your party, against the fact that climate change does not exist for you, but water is something that flows out of the tap and this is it, and protection – “when it is plummeting”. Please wake up once.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Gregor Perič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would try to stick to the subject, so today the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the years 2021-2024. This topic can also be somewhat broader than we have heard today and on the committees where we have addressed this topic. I was very attentive to the observations, and to the criticism of the opposition, where the problem was mainly that this declaration was short or too short, I find it difficult to agree. Because if we write all those key strategic things in some declaration, so the challenges, then one side can be enough. I have already mentioned in one debate that the declaration of independence of the United States is large or has it been put on one sheet of A3, so that they have obviously narrowed their minds well because — how long? - 200 years of business is working, better or worse. The European Union does not have such a long history, but I would like to have at least that long of the future, if I may say so. I think we are in very serious conditions, very serious situations for the European Union as well, for many of its members. The crises that are taking place – I think that the co-vid is the third in 10 years for the European Union and for us as Slovenia – are not something that makes things easier for us, but at the same time they give us an opportunity to question whether we are doing these things in the right way. If I take into account the UN as an organisation, we find that today it is relatively powerless, or if I express myself more diplomatically, it is inflexible, and the possibility of changing it, reforming it, improving it, it is simply not. This usually happens when a serious situation arises. The UN has been created at the heart of World War II and I hope that we will not need mountains within the European Union, in order to be able to take steps forward or to see together that it is not a time that has not yet come, that we are moving forward and that it remains on what we are, but that it is doing more effectively and better than has been done so far. The European Union has a number of challenges, and when we talk about the European Union, we also need to think urgently about Member States where many divisions, many fronts, if we say so, or divides. One important thing, at least for my understandings, is between those older or older founding Member States, which are also inadequately richer on the one hand and those Member States that came later on on the other. And later on, they are less developed, perhaps in this sense there is another exception to Greece, which, at least if we look at numbers, is also in an unenviable situation due to the financial crisis. But the question of solidarity, or, if we want to, the question of redistribution from richer to poorer, to less developed from the point of view of the European Union, is one very important issue that will keep this story simple and lead forward or not in this form. This issue generates tensions practically on all sides. That is why it makes sense for me to point this out at all points. Because it is not just a question of solidarity in the financial sense, but it is a matter of sharing fate in many aspects, especially we have had a very practical experience when we were talking about migration or when this migratory wave also hit Slovenia, when the Schengen issue as such is something that we, too, must provide at our southern border, and we must probably not remain alone in this regard. Many questions are therefore being raised, and it also turns out how effectively we are dealing with them, right in the field of some common European solidarity. In this sense, Europeans and Europeans, as well as our countries, will simply have to find some answers that will deal more effectively with the problems. The issue of the delivery of the vaccine, as well as much of the condition itself, tells us. If we know together how to find some effective solutions, so that these treaties, which have been concluded, will produce some results, this will be a big success, otherwise there will be a number of criticisms which I believe will also be used politically in a direction that will not benefit the European Union as a project. Because, despite the fact that we all have many views, there are many critical, even legitimately critical, concerns about the functioning of the European Union, we must be aware that this project has been created primarily by ensuring peace in Europe. Whoever looked at Europe's history just before 1945 saw that it was the history of peace, but the history of wars and conflicts, virtually everyone against everything. It was not until after 1945 and this project that we stopped fighting with each other and started to engage economically, and this cooperation has also grown into some political cooperation. Without that, we will simply return to those times. I believe that it is also in the interest of many people globally that the European Union is not doing very well, so there is one challenge ahead. If we can listen to each other, if we can participate and engage in some dialogues, then the standard of living in the European Union will also be envious and eventually one that will also be interesting in terms of migration. However, we need to understand as something positive that people want to live in our area, which also means our responsibility, our inadequate greater responsibility to ensure peace and stability in many other regions. Here again a new field of different views or interests is opened, which are sometimes cross-border between different Member States. We could also talk here about the energy issue, the energy independence of the European Union as such. These are all the dilemmas that I believe will be difficult to get on the common denominator, but this common denominator will have to be found at some point. In my opinion, I am pleased that Slovenia, as one of the smaller Member States, will bear this very important weight in designing common future paths within the European Union. As I say, I support the proposal for a declaration. Whether it is written on 13 pages or on 130 pages, the message it gives is especially important. Above all, I look forward to all these discussions, which, as we have heard today, must be open. We also need to listen to those we disagree with. I believe that there are very many such within the European Union, including those who do not believe in this project, and their messages need to be understood and somehow incorporated into everything, because we have seen what follows when there is no dialogue, when there is no listening and when someone is systematically pushed to the brink. History has taught us a great deal here, and I would like to be able to take this important step forward in the future in this process, which will take place especially during the time of Slovenia's presidency, in order to listen to the widest possible circle of citizens and citizens of the European Union, the Member States. This process will be interesting, it will be extremely important, it will be a route to the future, and I am happy that we too will contribute something useful to everything together. And as I say, I will support the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u47	Thank you very much. As the final debater, Mrs Mojca Škrynjar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Today, Prime Minister Janez Janša presented to us a declaration on the direction of the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024. The document is based on the basis, one of which is the 2030 Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, which has already been adopted, as well as the European document of the European Union strategic agenda for 2019-2024 and some other documents. The declaration is short, clear, understandable. I listened very closely to the amendments tabled at the Foreign Policy Committee. I have to say, they seemed more or less empty, pure pleonazem or domestic word abundance, vocabulary. It was one of the substantive amendments tabled by the SD in order to exclude the phrase “we are in favour of a trade agreement with the US”, which of course is not acceptable. Slovenia is small and must have the best trade relations with all countries around the world, as much as it is possible to have. The Declaration highlights many areas. I am particularly close to the area highlighted by modernisation based on the social market economy. We Slovenians want to be effective and at the same time we are social. I think it belongs to all of us. However, the government has demonstrated that it can do this efficiency and social sense with the existing eight anti-Korona packages and other laws. The emphasis on this declaration is also on the single market and to take account of demographic changes. The government is already drafting a law on the demographic fund, which is already an answer to this emphasis on the declaration. The declaration is also a great support for families, both through contributions at the birth of a child and support with subsidies, support with free kindergarten for second and third children and further children in kindergarten. The Declaration advocates strengthening new technologies, digital and green transformations. Slovenia has potential, has talented young people and these young people need to be encouraged to pay properly. Emphasis is also placed on the sustainable management of natural resources and the production of safe and quality food. That is why it also supports small and family farms. This should be highlighted in particular in the declaration. However, it will also be necessary to encourage and interest young people in the future in order to actually engage in farming and to provide Slovenia with some self-sufficiency in this area as far as possible. The Declaration underlines greater resilience in the field of health. We'll also have to work on prevention here. Although we have heard in past discussions that the European Union has problems – certainly the European Union is a hard project – it is the best thing that has happened to Slovenia in a global sense. This government is also the best thing that has happened to Slovenia in its history. The beautiful country is Slovenia, for housing and for work. I am convinced that this government is also able to follow the principle or emphasis in this declaration — dignity and prosperity for all. Every human must have the opportunity to live in prosperity, both spiritual and material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will be given the floor by the representative of the Government. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Secretary of State, Mr. Dovjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Given that we have already discussed the present declaration in the various working bodies of the National Assembly and that it has already been presented in the introduction at today's meeting by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, it would be very short in these conclusions. First of all, I would like to thank all Members for the good debate that you have dealt with the document thoroughly, not only today, but also, as has already been said, in previous discussions on the work of your parents. Allow me to respond in conclusion only to some of the substantive points that have been put in place during today's debate. One of the issues raised is the issue of digital taxation, the issue of new own resources in the European Union. This issue has been exacerbated in particular by an agreement on a multi-annual financial framework, which also foresees debt at European Union level. We follow this, and we are inclined to do so in the Government, before any decisions come to us in the Council of the European Union, and of course we will come from the starting point of the work body after the verification of positions, as always. I am sure that this issue will also mark the debate on the future of Europe, which has already been said a number of words today. As far as the issue of external relations is concerned. It has been pointed out that some countries are weak or insufficiently mentioned in the declaration itself. The Declaration is a political document, so it is not an action plan and therefore contains only the most important priorities. This is why the transatlantic partnership is mentioned as the most important and, of course, other countries are mentioned. But it's in place, and if this paragraph, we're talking about paragraph 43, we're reading exactly, we're looking at what's most important, why the transatlantic alliance is so important. However, it is a matter of common values. That we want to work together at EU level with other partners is also the case. Countries, including the Russian Federation, including China, including Japan and India, were mentioned today as well as partners in Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. Here I would like to point out that we have a comprehensive picture before us that we are not missing anything, no geographical work, but of course we are setting some priorities that stem from our values and interests. Both are covered by the declaration on the functioning of Slovenia in foreign policy as well as other strategic documents. It was also pointed out that the document was relatively general. That's what I'm gonna say. Of course, it is a document of a political nature and has a general nature, but it also has clear guidelines, clear guidelines that we want to work on. We did not want to follow the declarations of an older date, which were actually action plans, very detailed documents by mentioning concrete legislative initiatives at European Union level. We don't think that's part of the document. As it is said, before government representatives decide within the Council of the European Union, they always come to the National Assembly for confirmation of the starting points. However, the debate mentioned that this has not been happening recently. Let me say no to that. This only happens when the Council of the European Union as an institution does not formally meet when an informal audiovisual conference is held. In these cases, yes. But in this case, the Council of the European Union does not decide, does not make any binding decisions, and given that we are in a pandemic situation, this is also some kind of necessity. Therefore, I would like to add an explanation of why you may have at times felt that a meeting was going to take place, but it is not a starting point. In short, these are meetings that are not meetings in terms of decision-making but are only informal. The difference or some indication was raised that we are slipping into a deterioration of our relations with individual European institutions and certain members of the European Union. Of course, I'd like to say no to that. Slovenia cooperates well with all European institutions, as well as with all European countries. We do not want to divide countries into nuclear and peripheral countries, and in the spirit of European cooperation is equality and equality between all countries. We stick to this and we want to work with everyone on the basis of common values and interests, in accordance with the Treaty on European Union. Of course, according to individual issues of the Alliance, there can be differences in individual subjects. An assessment was made that the document reflects some weakness and that it does not strengthen the European Union. Let me stress here that, given the structure of the European Union, the European Union is as strong as its Member States, and we must not forget that. This is not the other way around, but the power of the European Union depends, of course, on the strength of the Member States and, of course, on how well they work together. We will also work for this as the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the next semester. Several times today, it has been pointed out in the debate that this issue has not been sufficiently addressed. The Declaration merely gives this as one of these in the broader context of multi-annual action, which ends in 2024. However, as we have pointed out several times in previous discussions, Slovenia's priorities as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union will be prepared or concluded just before the Presidency and will, before being adopted and finally published, also be presented in the National Assembly, so that you will be first-hand aware of this. I am very pleased that several debates have also highlighted the need to further integrate the internal market, to strengthen competitiveness, including strengthening the elements of sovereignty, such as cybersecurity. These are very important points and will also be reflected within the already mentioned priorities of the Slovenian Presidency in the next semester, which we are preparing. I would therefore like to conclude this presentation. Thank you once again for the good debate that we have followed carefully. I am sure that today's debate will not end after the vote. We are always pleased that there is an interest in European themes in the National Assembly, including in the Government, that there is a need to strengthen the role of national parliaments in decision-making in the European Union. We too think that the conference on the future of Europe will be a suitable place to open up these issues. By looking forward to further discussions on the working bodies of the mother, as well as in plenary sessions, if they are called upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Does Dr. Raščan want a word? No, no, no. Then we conclude the debate. As time remains, I ask whether it is still of interest to open the debate on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I see you don't. This concludes the debate. The decision on the proposal for a declaration will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. The draft law was tabled by the Council of State for consideration and I give the floor to the representative of the Magi Council of the State for further explanation of the bill. Peter Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u52	Madam Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Council of State has decided to submit to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance for a number of reasons. In order to ensure the right to compensation for a period of temporary detention from the work of one of the parents living with the child in the hospital, we also increase the age limit of the child who would be entitled to cohabitation to 15 years. We also set a ceiling on the length of care of a second member of the family in calendar and no longer on working days, thus equating the position of employees who have been in an unequal position due to different working days. Our proposal then, on the Health Committee and also on the plenary, experienced certain additions, positive additions, extended the range of beneficiaries to co-existence and compensation during the suspension of work, changed the way in which the compensation was applied, now this will be on the basis of a hospital certificate, and supplements have been adopted to ensure the smooth implementation of the legal provisions. On this occasion, I would like to thank all of you, on behalf of the Council of State, who have participated constructively in the discussions, in the preparation of the legislative solutions that have been put forward for decision today. There is no doubt that we have taken an important step forward together in ensuring the rights of sick children and their parents. On behalf of these children and their neighbors, on behalf of the Council of State, I am pleased that you have recognized that this is a problem that requires immediate and lasting solutions, and I hope that you will also be fully supportive of the proposal for a third-stage law today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The current definition of the Health and Health Insurance Act does not allow parents to coexist with a hospitalised child, or the current regulation does not guarantee this right. The proposed solutions also identified the limited problem and introduced it into the legislative procedure. The main objective pursued in the proposal is that one of the parents living next to a hospitalised child is entitled to compensation during his or her stay for a period of temporary absence from work and the age limit of the children who are entitled to co-exist with one of the parents in the health care institution during his or her illness is to be increased. The objectives would be achieved through solutions that go in the direction of determining the right to a cash refund during the temporary retention from work for parents who coexist with sick children in the healthcare institution. This right belongs to parents from the first day of cohabitation and lasts until the end of the stay with a sick child in a health care institution. Already in the wake of the rapid review of the solutions and objectives of the proposal, we have recognised the law as good in the Group of Social Democrats, as it has been addressing the problem that has been being resolved for some time now, in the Group of Social Democrats, we still believe that it is too long. Although the Government or the Ministry of Health did not oppose the law, it stressed at the very meeting of the Health Committee that the issue addressed should, of course, be addressed in an integrated and systematic manner. But contrary to the opinion of the Government or the Ministry are the opinions of us Members and Members of the National Assembly. The amendments proposed both by the coalition and by the opposition clearly demonstrate the sincere intention that the existing issue will be addressed with this legislative proposal and that we are not waiting for the Ministry's systemic solutions. The amendments proposed both at the Health Committee and for the second reading at the meeting of the assembly were unanimously supported. These amendments, which have been unanimously supported, have upgraded the proposed solutions to the applicants and have also partially expanded them. In the Social Democrats Group, we will unanimously support the proposal in this final phase, phase three, because we believe that the solutions are in place and should have been adopted long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next Mrs Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A warm welcome to the representative of the Council of State, the Secretary of State and all Members and Members of Parliament! Today, we will finally, thirdly read the amendments and supplement the Health and Health Insurance Act, which regulates important issues that will positively affect the entire course of treatment of hospitalised children. Let us reiterate that the amendment of the law guarantees the right to compensation for a period of temporary detention from the work of one of the parents living next to a hospitalised child. The parent, foster parent, caregiver, spouse or extramarital partner will thus, according to the new law, be entitled to compensation for the period of the child's hospitalisation, at the same amount as the salary for the care of the older family member, i.e. 80 % of the salary. The bill also raises the age limit for children whose parents have the right to co-exist in a healthcare institution. Parents up to 14 years of age, parents with a sick child up to 18 years of age in certain exceptions and parents of children with special needs who need 24 hours of care, regardless of age, will thus be entitled to stay in the hospital. With the support of the law today, we all display a great deal of empathy and understanding toward children and their parents or guardians. This also represents a good journey for future bold steps that will strengthen citizens and citizens in the belief that the Republic of Slovenia is a social state and that children enjoy special protection and care in this regard. We will, of course, unanimously support the amendment of the law in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u58	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, dear citizens and citizens! I have to tell you, I am extremely happy and proud today when we finally get to the place with a story that I learned in early October last year. At that time, Natja and Mitja, the parents of two brave heroes on the 3rd floor, turned to me. These are children who have cancer. They highlighted the problem they face daily. Parents who have their children in hospitals pay to be able to live with their children who have severe illnesses. During the treatment and hospitalisation phase, children need their parents, as they help them to recover more quickly with their proximity. Parents then do not care about money or the cost of living together. The most important to them is their child and his health. Many parents are absent from work because of their children’s illness, which also affects their income. After that, parents had to pay themselves for living in a health care facility with a child six years of age or older. Since this did not seem fair to us in Novi Slovenija, I suggested that in the sixth antikronapacket we correct this anomaly because the difficulties of children in hospitals during the epidemic are even greater. At the government meeting, Matthew Tonin insisted that this important area should be regulated in such a way that parental cohabitation is covered by health insurance. The government has incorporated our initiative into the Sixth Anti-Korona Act. In Novi Slovenija, we wanted to arrange this area systematically and permanently. We have found that the novel which governs this area and which has been tabled by the Council of State is already in the legislative process. That's why we introduced ourselves to mags in Novi Slovenija. A late-night marriage in the State Council. We agreed that we would amend the law and table amendments that would translate antikronapack solutions into a system law and upgrade them. In New Slovenia we are close to people, so we listened to the 3rd floor heroes and parents of children who live in hospitals, and together with the State Council we found a solution for which I thank the State Council of Mags on this occasion. It's a rush. Up to six years of age, for children over six years of age, parents had to cover their own living in a hospital, up to 20 euros a day for accommodation and nutrition expenses. In both cases, parents were not automatically entitled to hospital benefits because they were absent from work. There was also no hidden cohabitation in hospitals, so that children who were entitled to medical treatment did not take advantage of this in many cases if parents could not afford to pay for their own accommodation and meals in the health centre. According to today's proposal, in addition to living in a hospital, there will be a new possibility of living in a hospital, which means that the accommodation and nutrition of parents during their stay in the hospital and in the hospital will be covered by compulsory health insurance. The general boundary for co-existence is raised from the sixth to the 15th year. However, two categories are added for particularly difficult cases. A stay up to the age of 18 or as long as the parental right lasts is possible in the event of a serious disability or injury and in the case of treatment of a serious health condition, and regardless of age, co-existence is possible with a person with special needs who needs 24-hour care and care, or a person with a status under the law governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. I would also like to point out a hospital allowance that will automatically belong to parents during their stay without the special confirmation of the medical commission. In this way, we debirocratized and simplified the process. New Slovenia has always been close to people close to families, so I am proud that this area will be systematically regulated. In the election programme of New Slovenia in 2018, we wrote: “The hospital absence for the care of the child should clearly be arranged in such a way that it is standardised and, above all, favoured by families.” I am grateful that the client does what is written in the program and promises before the elections when he has scissors and canvas in his hands. I am pleased that we are responding to the problems of our citizens by doing so, and I am particularly pleased that today we will bring this story to a happy end and thus help the heroes of the 3rd floor and their parents in the fight against a serious disease.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! Under current legislation, parents are required to pay for living in a health care facility with a child aged six years or older on their own. From this day forward, this will no longer be the case. In front of us, a third consideration of the proposal for a law that will bring great relief to parents who accompany their children in the hospital and who coexist with them. The problem of covering the cost of living with a child in his hospitalisation is not new. After many warnings from the profession, and especially from parents who have consistently warned about the non-systematic regulation of this right, we will now finally overcome the barrier to the child’s underlying age limits, where parents are still entitled to reimbursement of the cost of cohabitation. So far, parents have had to pay for living in a health care facility with a child six years of age or older on their own, since this health insurance did not cover for them. For a number of families, this was a major financial contribution, especially when children get sick of an already severe disease in which treatment is long - term. Since we have already held two productive debates on the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, today I will not repeat the content of these comments and amendments. However, let me point out that, despite some arguments that define the novel as too financial affluent for healthcare, in the Group of Members, we believe that the right to be around a child when it needs you most is beyond the financial consequences. Members and Members of the SAB will support this positive change unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act is currently being considered in the context of the third reading with the aim of permanently regulating the interaction of parents with sick children in hospitals and health centres. The anti-Korona package provided for a similar measure only temporarily, until the end of 2021, and this area will be settled permanently. As we have already said in the second reading of the bill, our principle is that partial legislative changes are not welcome and we are more inclined to comprehensive systemic solutions, but in this case it has been shown that such rapid changes are sometimes necessary, even if they are in favour of the most vulnerable groups and bring concrete improvements. In the current regulation, parents have faced unnecessary obstacles to the child’s illness at such a stressful time. We have already supported the amendments in Desus on the basis of the consideration of the parent committee, which have upgraded the anti-Korona measure a little bit. They introduce the coexistence of one of the parents or caregivers in a health care facility or hospital with a sick child up to and including 14 years of age. In the event of a more severe disability in which training is needed for subsequent medical rehabilitation at home, and in some other difficult cases, it will be possible to interact with a sick child under the age of 18 or as long as the parental right persists. Regardless of age, the possibility of interacting with a person with special needs who needs 24-hour care and care or with a person with statutory status governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities is determined. The bill also refers to the right to cohabitation, which will burden both parents and health workers. In the second reading, we have extended the adopted amendments to foster, married and out-of-law partners. Without this supplement, there could be adverse and non-living situations where a person who actually has parental care would not be entitled to co-existence. It could be said that it is finally a viable view that a child who is hospitalised is provided with health care and therefore the presence of parents is not necessarily necessary and consequently parents are not entitled to co-existence and compensation for care. Of course, there is no doubt that hospital staff are excellent and loving caregivers for sick children, but parents certainly cannot be replaced. We are pleased to have before us today this complementary proposal, which we will support in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! A change of law allows one of the parents who resides with a hospitalised child for the duration of his or her stay with him or her the right to compensation for a period of temporary absence from work. We wish that the change of law will take place in practice as soon as possible. It is the right of children to have their parents with them all the time in the hospital. The bill calls on parents to have the accommodation, assistance and incentive to stay with the child provided. Health institutions will have to provide adequate infrastructure to avoid problems at the implementation level. For children and their parents, the amended arrangement is better, so it should not be called into question that the accommodation capacity of individual hospital departments should be questioned. We are working for a public health system and such rights are the basis of every socially oriented society. The profession is united that the past situation must be properly regulated. The medical profession supports and encourages the interaction of one parent with a hospitalised child, as his presence increases the child’s trust in the staff, gives him a sense of security and enhances his sensitivity to treatment. The next step is to change the rules of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance as a result of the amendments to this Act. The latter should be amended in Articles 40 and 138 in such a way that escorts are entitled to at least the benefits of eligible migrants. Thus, the cost of living should include meals, bed linen for resters, sleeping shirts, pajamas, towels, bathroom for personal care, and hygiene supplies. All of this comes to migrants when they come to our country. We hope that the Ombudsman will take this issue as seriously as he does in the situations already mentioned. The spirit of the law is that parents should not have any additional costs when they stay in a health institution with a child, but we fear that the cost of living with a sick child in a health institution abroad has been missed. Many cases are well known when parents have already collected sufficient funds for their health intervention abroad through various actions and later find that all logistics related to transport and intervention is also a great financial burden. Such a situation should not take place because at this stage of civilised development they are inhumane. This is a good change of law, but for the sake of integrated regulation it would be appropriate for such changes to be prepared in the future by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has a more detailed view of the whole situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u66	Dear President, Secretary of State, motioner, welcome! Today is actually the third time we are looking at the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. The fact is, this is an important change. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were aware of the need to do something in this area. We were surprised that the former, left-wing government had not seen any significant added value in this and had not taken up the proposal for amendments to this law. We thought differently, so we prepared our proposal for a solution to this law, but before we put it forward the State Council – and nothing, therefore, is right, because we are not competing, but doing well. Given that the proposal was tabled, it seemed far more reasonable for us to be working together to improve the bill further, and this has been done. This is why we are happy for both parents and sick children in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is children, those who can now stay with their parents up to the age of 14, not only in health care, but also in health care, and it is also important that those children who have more serious disabilities can, together with their parents by the age of 18, with children with special needs who need 24-hour care, be able to stay with them all the time. This is important. Last but not least, it also helps improve their health. A number of times that are difficult for both children and parents may be easier in this way and may be shorter in hospital treatment in this way. That's what we want. This is an important step towards improving the social state. According to the proposal of the State Council, we have tabled these amendments together in coalition, although none of the coalition parties bears the name Social We do not need it on behalf of us, we do it. And there's something else that I think is very important about this whole thing. It is not true that the government opposed the law; this was said in one position today. It's a false and malicious statement. The fact was as follows. The government has said that the law as such needs major changes and that changes to the Health and Health Insurance Act, once the time is right, will systematically take other measures. However, given that the solutions to the changes have now come in this part, these changes have not, of course, been opposed. So that's the fruit of working together and working together. We thank the Council of State and hope that many more such proposals will be made for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u67	Thank you very much. As the last position of the LMŠ Group, Mr Nik Prebil will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u68	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished public, welcome! We have a final phase of the bill. However, what should be a short process has become an excessive debt due to the procedure of the National Assembly, but still the bill will allow for the right of one of the parents in the hospital to stay free of charge after long years. This will be done more fairly and will be settled permanently. According to the expectations and views we have heard from other parliamentary groups, the amendment will be adopted unanimously. We will also contribute votes to the LMSH. In such important and sensitive subjects, it is important that the whole policy is uniform. There must be no division here of ours or yours, left or right, anyhow. Regulating the situation of vulnerable groups is not and must not be a place to create some pear stories or attempts to raise political points in the way of who owns a single solution, as some colleagues of this national council have unfortunately done. We are all responsible for the adoption of this law, no one else, no one less, and it is the only right thing to do. Indeed, we are here in the name of the people, for the people all from first to last. Let me summarize very briefly the key solutions of this law, which the amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act brings. One of the parents or caregivers of children who live in a hospital because of a serious illness will be offered free accommodation in a health care facility or a hospital with a sick child up to the age of 15. This part has already been provisionally regulated in one of the PKP laws, where the amendment was adopted at the initiative of the LMŠ. Some who are boasting today objected at the time, but then they brought the same amendment to the table themselves, but I will not discuss it today. In case of severe brain damage, spinal cord, chronic diseases, this will allow for free stay, in this case until the age of 18, or for the duration of parental rights. At the same time, one of the parents or guardians will also be able to compensate for the period of temporary detention from work on the first day of absence to the end of the stay. This will prevent the situation and distress of parents as well as of children who have been witnessed to too many times in practice because the child is in the hospital and the parents must be at work. An important novelty is also the equalisation of all beneficiaries in determining the maximum length of care for a younger family member, regardless of the number of working days per individual week, which we will do by changing the upper limit after a new one, not on working days but on calendar days. Thus, it will not matter whether the parent or guardian works five, six working days a week, but will also be the administratively burdened health care staff, as it will now be much easier to bring this into play. It is also extremely important that the novel after the adopted supplements not only addresses children with cancers or other long-term diseases, but also refers to parents of children with special needs. The needs of these people are best known by their parents or caregivers, and they can play an important and key role in the treatment process. One of the parents or caregivers will be allowed to stay in a free home without the age limit of the child, since the presence of parents in these persons is truly crucial during the course of treatment. In the LMŠ, a proposal for amendments to the law submitted by the Council of State for consideration, as has already been said, and for its adoption also took place in various societies – also in the Society of the Heroes of the 3rd Floor with which we met, we listened to them and also took into account their proposals – we support it from the very beginning and we will unanimously support it today. I am really happy about arrangements like this; when we directly help our youngest and their parents, I am actually happy to work in politics. When you have a tangible result ahead of you, something that will be seen, something that will feel — that is what is crucial. All well and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law for the third reading, so the assembly on the draft law, in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, will decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is on the third time a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and four Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Andrey Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u70	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In the SAB party, we have identified, identified, and proposed an amendment to the law on pension and disability insurance to shorten the transitional period for the implementation of a higher percentage of pension. In accordance with the law governing pension and disability insurance and where the rate is the percentage, and this is precisely at the initiative of our client, already increased, currently applies a six-year transitional period. The final goal, that is 63.5%, would not have been achieved until 2025. The amendment to the law before us is intended to shorten the transitional period for the application of a higher percentage of the pension rate from six to four years. Our initial proposal was even shorter, namely only three years, but after coordination with the government coalition and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, we reached an agreement to shorten the transitional period from six to four years, that is until 2023. In addition, the original proposal was supplemented by the establishment of a disability pension. This will ensure that insured persons who are entitled to a disability pension receive a disability pension of the amount fixed at 41 % of the minimum pension base in 2021. In spite of the fact that the coalition amendment mentioned in the draft law has introduced a completely new content, the applicants agree with the right to a minimum guaranteed disability pension and we have also supported this amendment on the parent's working body in the second reading. Before the third reading of the law, some parliamentary groups have supplemented the law with amendments. Some are more of a nomotechnic nature, while others have raised a lot of attention in public. I believe that there will be an interesting debate on the latter in view of the professional public's express disagreement with the proposals. Let me make one last point. The right to a pension in Slovenia is defined as one of the fundamental rights to social security and is, as such, firmly deserved. It is true, as some of you have already pointed out, that the proposal for a law brings partial solutions, so it is absolutely necessary to start in the future with an integrated solution to the topic under consideration. However, it is necessary to start somewhere. In the SAB, we took the first step and reached consensus with all stakeholders that shortening the transitional period is necessary. To all of you who will support today's SAB proposal, I sincerely thank you and say that this is not our last proposal to improve the status of our pensioners. I believe that we will also find a common language in other important matters for our pensioners and pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ms Mateja Ribič, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u72	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a proposal for a law whose main purpose is to reduce the transitional periods for the implementation of a higher dose percentage for men's pensions and thus accelerate the equalisation of the dose percentages for both sexes. The proposal also reduces the transitional periods for the implementation of the minimum pension granted to an insured person who acquires the right to an old, early or invalid pension and the transitional periods for the application of the lowest percentage of the invalidity pension and the basis for the assessment of the widow's pension. The government has already announced its support for the shortening of transitional periods during the legislative process, while at the same time proposing in its opinion that it should be extended to four years from the proposed three years. The Members listened to the proposal and accepted the additions on the committee responsible, which is why the Government supports this part of the proposal. On the committee responsible, Members also reiterated the issue of low invalidity pensions and adopted additions to the original text on the basis of which the minimum invalidity pensions would be raised to the amount to be fixed at 41% of the minimum pension base this year and then coordinated in the same way as pensions. An arrangement has been proposed whereby this minimum pension would be granted to individuals who are yet to retire, as well as to all beneficiaries of a disability pension, regardless of the law and when they retired. The amount of the disability pension would be set at EUR 388,54 this year and would therefore be much closer to the basic amount of the minimum income. Since this is the case for persons with disabilities whose working capacity is generally limited and unable to work anymore, the Government supports such a solution because it is proportionate and appropriate both in terms of the system and in terms of the long-term financial sustainability of the pension fund. In the second reading of the law, you supported the amendment of the Left, which essentially and inadequately interferes with the original proposal. The Government agrees that it is necessary to address the appropriateness of the pension, but points out that this needs to be regulated in a way that is appropriate for all pension beneficiaries and not just those who receive the lowest pensions and who have generally paid the least contributions to the scheme. The government cannot therefore support an arrangement whereby all pensions would be raised to the amount of short-term minimum cost of living, i.e. EUR 442. This arrangement would largely devalue the payment of contributions paid by individuals in the past and unacceptably simplify the beneficiaries. In the same situation, individuals who have paid contributions for 15 years and individuals who have paid almost once more would be in the same position, that is, 30 years. On the other hand, individuals who have been paying contributions from the lowest insurance base for 15 years would be compared with individuals who have paid significantly higher contributions during the course of their activities. The proposed raise is more disproportionately favourable for individuals who have paid for the system at least or for the shortest time, which cannot be supported by maintaining such an important social system for all generations. Nevertheless, the Government considers that the proposal can still be corrected in a way that is still acceptable from the point of view of the system itself. In this place, we would therefore appeal to Members to accept an amendment with content already adopted on the home committee itself, possibly with some improvements, which must follow the basic principle of the system and be proportionate and fair to all stakeholders of the system and not just those who have invested in it at least. In doing so, let us point out the decision of the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of 17. 3. 2021, in which the representatives of the stakeholders of this system are represented. The decision opposes interference with the compulsory pension and disability insurance system in a way that undermines fundamental principles and proposes that social policy be resolved within the framework of the second subsystem and that the proposal amends the law in the way it was adopted by the home committee. For the sake of compromise, it would be appropriate to support the amendment of the provision of the guaranteed pension for the so-called full pension period if it were established in a way that would not undermine the fundamental principles of this system. The basic purpose at the time of the introduction of this scheme in 2017 was to ensure that pensioners who paid at least the amount prescribed for retirement at the lowest age were provided with social security equivalent to the amount of the protective allowance. Since the current amount of old-age and invalidity pensions provided for the so-called full-time pension in practice for women already now and for men in the near future will no longer have an impact, the Government will not oppose the proposal to raise this guaranteed pension to a higher amount, which will also listen to the Union of Retired Slovenians, which has expressed support in the legislative process for such an increase. However, in order to avoid excessive differences between individuals, the Government calls on Members to make a reasonable increase in this amount, which will not unduly affect the relationship between individuals of the so-called full pension age and individuals who can only have a month or a day less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! At the beginning of March, the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which we are considering today, was adopted by the Left, with an old, early and invalid pension of at least EUR 442 and a full pension of EUR 613. At that time, the focus was mainly on shortening the transitional period to raise the dose rate to 63.5%, which was also the original purpose of the novel. Today, however, other content comes to the fore that raises questions about the provision of a certain amount of pension than the social dimension. The question of the meaning of the relationship between the amount of the pension and the contributions paid is also raised. Is it fair for individuals to receive the same pension for 15 years and 30 years of work, and is this solution even encouraging the extension of working hours? In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we have therefore submitted a supplement with coalition partners proposing that the pension guaranteed at the lowest age should be EUR 620 and that the minimum early and old pension should be set at 29.5 per cent of the lowest pension base. However, beneficiaries of the right to a disability pension would be granted a disability pension in the amount fixed at 41 per cent of the lowest pension base in 2021. The disability pension provided would thus be close to the amount of the financial social assistance. This solution has already been established at the examination of the parental committee. We believe that such a solution is appropriate and that is why we are proposing it in the third reading of the bill. With the text that we are considering today, we will be amending the pension law for the ninth time. With all the amendments to pension legislation that we agree to have been necessary, there is also an increase in expenditure from the pension fund, which is, of course, a greater pressure on public finances. However, all the amendments to the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance have so far been adopted with broad political support and with the aim of altering or correcting injustices. These changes certainly meant a general improvement in the material situation of insurers. One such change is also a change that we are considering today, which relates to the shortening of the transitional period. We reiterate that in the coalition agreement, we have committed ourselves to a transitional period of up to 63.5 per cent in four years. With the support of the novel, which is ahead of us, we want to ensure, among other things, faster — and with more favourable conditions — the retirement of those who have very low wages today and who are thus promised low pensions. The transitional period for reaching a higher dose percentage is thus reduced from six to four years for old pensions, minimum pensions, invalidity pensions and widow's and family pensions. Today we will take another step towards ensuring a fairer regime, especially for those who are already living so hard either because of low pensions or because of low wages. However, the problem of low pensions and low wages remains a problem that must be re-emphasized as a society and addressed in other laws. In the future, consideration will also need to be given to a possible different pension system, which already has a different image with the current many changes. The proposed amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will be supported by the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u76	The raising of the lowest pensions to 442 euros per month and the lowest full-time pensions to 613 euros is the minimum minimum that this National Assembly must accept in addressing poverty among pensioners. It is an increase in short-term and long-term cost of living. As a result of these increases, none of the pensioners will be enriched, but it is an ambitious attempt to face the poverty of the pensioners at last. A lift would benefit 138 thousand pensioners, more than a fifth of all pensioners in this country living in very severe distress. The lowest pension is now EUR 246. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine what it's like to spend a month with 246 euros. The lifts mean, at best, for those in the worst social distress, almost 200 euros more, with which it will be easier to sew together for a month. It is a difference between whether someone after the Red Cross package comes twice a month or once a month, or someone, an older lady, will eat a can of cat food for dinner or will be able to afford fresh bread from the pasta store, which is made by a measure of man. We received quite a few objections in Levica when we tabled this amendment. We received it even more when we successfully pushed this amendment through the Mill of the National Assembly at our previous consideration of the law. A key argument against prioritising the poverty of pensioners, as we suggest, is that we left-wings break the pension system, that the pensioner is basically an insurance company. Ladies and gentlemen, the pension register is not an insurance company. It is a solidarity system, after all, it has a public treasury sense, and only if it is built into a strong social component. We haven't invented this social component in Levica, it already exists, we're just strengthening it. Already, the budget has contributed more than a billion euros to the pension fund, saying more than one fifth of the pension funds. So it's very difficult to talk about the insurance company if we're dealing with such a big budget transfer. The legislation also has already entered the lowest pension for the period guaranteed, we only raise it to EUR 613, which is to the level of long-term living costs and the highest pensions are already replaced. So, some insurance idea that gives you as much money as you paid in your old years doesn't actually survive the reality meeting, but the distribution of pensions, as it is currently stolen, is very guilty of those who can't survive with pensions, whether they've been working for 40 years or only 15 years. The second argument that arises is the financial consequences that our raise would leave on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It is €70 million each year. It's change, it's spit in the sea from the point of view of public finances. To compare, let's just look at the current proposal for a social cap, which was pointed out by the government of Janez Janša, which will mean that public finances will mostly, just pension and health bills, lose 150 million euros each year. More than twice as much as it requires dealing with poverty among pensioners as we propose in Levica. At the same time, if a thousand 600 million euros, as far as the capital was concerned in the CAP laws, or 780 million euros as the Government intends to throw through the window for the purchase of unnecessary weapons, I do not mention. But when it comes to saving the poor, to solving the hardships of the poorest pensioners, then public finances are suddenly a problem, even though they work with them like pigs with fur when it comes to supporting foreign military complexes or domestic, already so rich capitalists. A third argument against our rise says that the gap between the absolute lowest pension and the full-time pension is too low. I think that this gap may indeed be too low, but it just means that we have to fix all pensions up, but not that we still leave the lowest pensions deep below the threshold of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. The amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance is very welcome and has already been confirmed in the second reading. Unfortunately, however, the amendment of the Left, which breaks the pension system, was adopted. The lowest pension should no longer be charged as a percentage of the lowest base, but would simply be based on the amount of short-term minimum cost of living currently calculated at EUR 442. That it is also 442 euros difficult to survive, no one doubts, but the problem arises when we want to alleviate social distress within the pension system. The pension system thus further increases its social function, which is by no means its purpose. Pension is an individual right from work and social assistance, which determines the minimum cost of living, is the right of the family and depends on the available income of all members. Pensions are financed by contributions from future beneficiaries in proportion to labour income and partly from the state budget after the reduction of employers' contributions and social transfers in full from the state budget. A popular and unacquainted proposal by the Left is a serious step towards dismantling the current system of compulsory pension and disability insurance, which the applicants of the adopted harmful amendment are not even aware of. Raising the lowest pension to the proposed level, without taking into account the established rules governing the amount of pensions granted, is in total contravention of the principles on which the applicable system is based. The amount of the pension shall, as a rule, be conditioned on one side of the salary or insurance base from which contributions for that insurance have been paid during a certain period prior to the exercise of the right to a pension through which the pension base is established and, on the other hand, the length of the period in the insurance, expressed by a certain percentage. A higher salary or insurance base affects not only higher contributions, but also higher pension base, longer periods in insurance, but higher rates of pension. The consequences are clear, higher pension on a higher pension basis and a longer period broken down in the insurance and vice versa, lower pension on a lower pension basis and a shorter period of insurance. Within the system, the minimum and highest pension base laid down in the law is important. Their ratio is one to four, which makes them of a special character and function in the system. Following the amendment of the Left, all pensioners would receive at least the amount of short-term minimum costs or 442 euros, regardless of how many working hours they actually have for themselves, even if they have worked only one year in their entire lives. This, in our view, is not fair nor does it encourage people to work and work. With coalition amendments, we propose that those who have worked for 40 years, worked hard and paid contributions receive a pension of at least €620. This amendment would apply to all pensioners, regardless of when and by which legislation they retired, so it also applies back. It is true that those who have paid in the pension scheme for 40 years receive from it a decent amount of pension that allows them to cover their living expenses after retirement. If the amendments we signed are adopted, we will support the change of the law in New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u80	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your word. Much has been said about demographic changes and the ageing of the population facing Slovenia at the time of the consideration of this amendment. We are all aware that demographic change is inevitable, which means that we also need to adapt to existing systems, health and social, which are both strongly linked to pensions. For sustainability, it is important to ensure a stable source of funding, and part of this solution could also be the establishment of a demographic fund that would provide in one part a stable source to complement pension fund financing. In this place, let me stress once again that we are in favour of establishing a demographic fund in the SAB, but for the one who will truly offer future pensioners the possibility of a safe age. What the Government is proposing is nothing but concern for pensioners. Fund funds will be able to be spent on many other purposes, not just pensions. However, the entire state property will be transferred to the fund in one swing and can also be privatised with one swing. We don't support this in the SAB. But today we are here for a different reason, today we have before us the third and final consideration of the novel of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which we have already submitted to the SAB party in the legislative process last summer. She had a long way to go, but in the end, all that matters is that we work together with the strong. In the SAB party, we have advocated everything since the creation of the party to ensure a decent life for our pensioners. We are aware that the pensioners have given much in their work to our society and have done their jobs for the country honestly. It is our duty to provide them with a safe and dignified age, and we are aware that the fiscal situation will be difficult because of the trend of an ageing society, but it is our job to resolve it. In the SAB, we are proud to have managed to convince both the Government and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, through our proposal to shorten the transitional period for the full rate of retirement from six years to four years. Although our initial proposal was only a reduction of the transitional period of only three years, after harmonisation in the draft law, the reduction remained to four years, which means that the transitional period until the full application of the dosing percentage at 63.5 is definitively effective from 1. 1. 2023 on. Of course, the SAB would be more pleased with immediate enforcement, but we are realistic and aware of the state's fiscal constraints. As I have already said, the increasing ageing of the population raises a number of questions, from the sustainability of the pension system, the arrangements for long-term care to access health services, while at the same time requiring effective action from us. All these questions cannot be addressed by a single amendment of the law, but we have started with several small steps. That is why I am pleased that we have reached agreement and that our proposal for the novel looks forward to a great deal of support. In the hope of another common step for the benefit of our people and countries, I would like to thank once again on behalf of the SAB party all those who support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! The initial purpose of the bill was to reduce the transitional period for the equalisation of the dose percentage for male insured persons at a rate of 63.5 per cent, which already applies to women, from six to four years. This is the same content that was proposed in Desus when the new ZPIZ-2 was adopted in 2019, but there was not enough hearing to accept. This time, the proposal enjoys the support of all Members and Members. The additional solution, which was drawn up at the meeting of the parent working body relating to the invalidity pension provided, was also supported unanimously. The supplement submitted by the Levica Group, which adapts the design of the lowest and guaranteed pension formulas for setting minimum living costs, has, as we have seen, caused a lot of media pump and of course the responses of the profession on the one hand, and the temptations on the part of those who believe and possess the content they like. Unfortunately, it has often proved that populism, not only during election campaigns, but also in the adoption of serious state-warning acts, does not address the consequences of such and other partial promises and interventions into logical and fair-minded systems, such as pension schemes, have already caused enough damage and disengagement to the public. Understanding our pension system is a difficult force, and for a number of citizens this understanding is based solely on the formation of beliefs resulting from its specific personal situation. The fact that we must not ignore is that our pension system is in itself quite solidarity, and a number of people, who complement the insurance principle, like to forget it or not to see it at all. In the second reading in the plenary session of the Desus Group, we voted differently in the amendment, which is the lowest guaranteed pension. However, we have been working to ensure that a full-time retirement pension is raised for 40 years and that it reaches at least the poverty threshold. The latter in our party tried to reach in the last two governments of which we were members. The decent survival of the fall of life after 40 years of active work is more than desirable and deserved, is just and human. In this part, Members of the Desus Group do not have any problems, we absolutely defend and support such a solution. Indeed, we are concerned about the second part of the content that talks about raising the lowest pension, which is measured for the mandatory 15-year minimum insurance age. Let me light things up a little bit and compare them between individual pension recipients. The lowest pension for the minimum prescribed insurance period today amounts to EUR 246. According to the new report, this would amount to €442, which would raise by almost €200 or 80%. €42 million should be provided at the annual level to those who have spent and paid only 15 years in their lives. In the amount of €442, it is said to be the same as is now proposed that this year's pension is also paid to those who have worked on average and paid contributions for 30 years. So, it totally doesn't matter whether someone works 15 years or 30 years, the pension will end up the same. According to Zpiz’s explanations, social corrections in the amount of such a minimum pension amounting to the minimum cost of living already amount to more than half of the amount, so we can no longer talk about pensions, but about social transfer. If we compare 15 years of insurance with the full prescribed age for old-age pensions, it is clear that we are also causing serious injustice to all those who have worked 40 years, since the latter would have more than €170 for 25 years than those who have contributed only 15 years of pension. Such interference in pension systems is dangerous work, it means fraud, it threatens people's confidence in the pension system, it is a severe denial of the value of work, it denies the intergenerational contract and unduly burdens the pension fund. In the Desus Group, we cannot support and defend this anomaly, which completely destroys the pension system. Pension is an economic category, and if we want to solve the problem of low pensions, there is no pension law and cannot be the right address to solve these problems. This is what social policy is meant for. As a result, we are co-signatory and supporter of amendments that are more reasonable in regulating individual pension relations. We raise the guaranteed pension above the poverty threshold, which is €620, and we raise the lowest pension to almost €280. I think this option will satisfy all the needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u84	Nice greeting to all present in the hall! Slovenian pensioners spent their lives paying into the pension register and building our homeland. We must have the utmost respect and gratitude for our oldest relatives, because they are the ones who have overcome obstacles that many of us will never meet. The oldest citizens of our country deserve in the last period of their lives to be given something back as a nation, what they have given to us and to our country. During their last life, they deserve to enjoy not only a dignified but also a pleasant life, for some of them have also fought for our homeland in independence. The increase in the dose percentage is certainly the right step in this direction, as well as the reduction in the transitional period for implementation. The pension system must be based on justice and, above all, solidarity within the country, which is one of the highest moral values of every nation. Slovenian policy, whether it comes from the right or from the left political sphere, should absolutely come together on the subject of Slovenian pensioners. The fact that our oldest relatives are at risk of poverty at all, Slovenians as a nation should not even be allowed to do so. On the other hand, we finance aliens who in the past have not contributed in any way to the construction of our country and will not help to improve it in the future. In the future, Slovenians need to ask who deserves more money from the state budget, and who deserves it more in the future — the fathers and mothers of our people who created Slovenia, without whom neither us nor our country would be, or the foreigners who would destroy it? I think the answer to this question is clear for anyone who, with at least a little moral question about justice and morality. Even though we do not support the fact that our oldest relatives live below the poverty line, we cannot agree that certain speculators would abuse the pension system. If, according to some proposals, we increase the minimum pension, where the difference between the 15th and 40th working years is only €171, this would undermine the pension system and there would also be speculation and abuse of the system. These are populism proposals exclusively for the collection of political points at the electoral base, which are not based on the mathematical reality of the pension system. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support proposals that will improve the living conditions of our oldest nationals, but in an orderly way that will not lead to abuse of the system. For Slovenian pensioners living in extremely poor living conditions, we must absolutely take care of them. But we need to take care of it through the social system that we so generously use for everyone but our oldest fellow countrymen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The position of Slovenian pensioners has deteriorated under the auspices of the left governments from year to year. Incomprehensible fact, given that there is virtually no party in the Slovenian political space that would not, if not otherwise at the time of the elections, advocate a better position for pensioners. So there were many promises that did not become acts during all these years. We all know you can't live off the promise. With the proposed coalition changes to the pension law, we are therefore solving today the plight of pensioners who have been forgotten over and over again for many years under the rule of your governments. The fact is, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tried several times to resolve their truly unenviable situation in this mandate. Unfortunately, we were also under your government, Marjana Sharca, as the opposition party was then re-voted. Today, as a party to the coalition with the proposed amendments, we are pursuing two objectives: to raise pensions while continuing to maintain a sustainable pension fund. With amendments, we therefore propose, for the first time, to raise the lowest pensions to 29.5% of the lowest pension base, which means that the lowest pensions will increase by between 20 and 50 euros or that the lowest pension after the proposal has been adopted will amount to poor 280 euros. Secondly, we propose to raise the lowest invalidity pensions to 41% of the lowest pension base, amounting to around €390, and for the third time, the coalition amendment also proposes to raise all pensions for the full 40 years of work, from €581 to €620. These are proposals to ensure that social security is improved for the most vulnerable groups within the pension system, as does the discriminatory regime contained in the opposition's proposal. As is often the case today when dealing with changes in the pension law, we are faced with popular but harmful proposals that do not solve any criminal relations between pensioners and even less financial sustainability of the pension system. So, dear opposition colleagues, how fair and fair is your proposal that someone who has worked for 15 years should receive the same pension as those who have paid for the pension fund for almost 30 years? With your proposal, you have also fully evaluated all those who have paid for their 40-year pension allowance because, according to your proposal, these pensioners would only have a pension of 170 euros higher than those who today have only 15 years of pension base. We therefore reiterate in the Slovenian Democratic Party: there are no privileges and there is no social transfer, there is income earned for the previous work of the pensioner and it depends on the length and the amount of contributions paid to the pensioner's pension. This should be borne in mind by those who, when taking over political power, quickly forget their pre-election promises to correct the wrongs of pensioners, as well as those who break the foundations and long-term sustainability of the pension system with their populist proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also fulfill our promises in the Slovenian Democratic Party when we are in the government. Thus, under this government, we have already corrected the injustices of more than 56,000 people who have not been recognized for their time of purchase, even though they have paid fair wages under the rules then in force. We fixed the culprits for farmers who had not been granted the amount of the pension according to the amount of the contributions paid. These two proposals were not supported under your government at the time. And so if someone who doesn't work and doesn't have one day of work can get more than €400 of social assistance, someone who can't work anymore because of his age or disability, and you didn't want to provide this social minimum, today this government hears and understands the plight of the pensioners and solves their situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have on the table an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which originally envisaged a reduction in the transitional period for the implementation of a higher rate of retirement from six to four years. Following the additions adopted in the second reading, today we will also decide to change the regime of the lowest invalidity pension. In the pension and disability areas, the government of Marjan Šarc has taken quite a few measures to help improve the pension situation that we took when we took up the post and we have taken action with discretion. We have drawn up changes to pension legislation in the context of social dialogue with responsibility and discretion, with serious and deliberate measures that have proved necessary and financially sustainable. At the end of 2019 we arranged a gradual increase in the retirement rate at 40 years for both women and men of 63.5%, providing higher pensions, on average by between 5% and 15%. With the aim of extending the work activity and raising the actual retirement age, bearing in mind that the changes in the pension system should be introduced gradually, we have proposed a six-year transitional period to raise the dose percentage. The important novelties of the Law were: a higher percentage in the case of a disability pension in case of injury at work or occupational disease; a new lower rate of disability pension for insured persons who had become disabled before the age of 65; a double pensioner status; an additional rate of 1.36% in the account of childcare for the child; an increase in the minimum base for the benefit of the widow and family pension. We also raised funds for the annual allowance or regression of pensioners. Higher pensions were also due to annual coordination. The claims that the government of Marjana Sarca did not have a hearing to act in the pension area are unfounded. Following today's proposal, a higher dose percentage will be applied within four years. Given that such a proposal has also been supported by the Government, we believe in the List of Marjan Šarc that such a measure is prudent and financially sustainable, which is why we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u89	Thank you very much. As the last position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented, it will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For most pensioners, pensions are the main source of income. In order for pensions to remain adequate and to ensure a decent standard of living in the future, we need to provide a sustainable pension system based on paid contributions and intergenerational solidarity. For most individuals, retirement means a reduction in income and for some even the risk of poverty at an age. This is particularly true for Slovenia, since we are among the countries where pensions are significantly lower than the average of the European Union, depending on the level of pre-retirement benefits. Single elderly women are particularly exposed to the risk of poverty. Nevertheless, we believe that it would be more appropriate for pensioners who receive low pensions and are financially most at risk to be provided through various social transfers such as a protective allowance, and that the social difficulties of pensioners through the pension system should be addressed as little as possible. The Slovenian pension scheme is based on the principle of social insurance, which means that both the rights and the amount of the pension depend on the period of payment of the contributions and their amounts. This means that despite all your weaknesses, you follow the principle of paying more, receiving more. Moreover, the pension system is also based on intergenerational solidarity, on which the generations currently paying contributions rightly expect to receive pensions at a level that will allow them to maintain their standard of living when they meet the pension conditions. That is why we must be aware, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we must also contribute to true solidarity, not only to receive it. Already in our presentation of the second reading of the proposed amendment of the law, we have said that we support the reduction of the transitional period for the application of a higher percentage for the age, disability and widow's pensions from six to four years. We have also supported a provision that will ensure the minimum level of invalidity pension. We continue to support the proposed amendments to the pension law because they will ensure a more decent standard of living for future pensioners and will make the situation of men and women more equal at the rate of the retirement rate. In doing so, we reiterate our call for the future to avoid partial and rapid changes in the pension system without serious and broad public debate with the social partners and with all stakeholders in the pension system. Such rapid changes in such an important system as the pension scheme can quickly create new injustices or create new inequalities within the same group of beneficiaries. They can also jeopardise the long-term sustainability of the system and undermine already so fragile intergenerational and social solidarity. If we continue to make partial changes at the pace that we are doing now, we can quickly find that in the end all the first-retirement pensioners will be entitled only to a minimum universal pension. On the other hand, we will have to secure a higher pension with additional pension savings. It is time to re-examine and reflect on our pension system, which should also take into account all the changes in the pension law so far, to propose proposals for the elimination of possible injustices, and to propose solutions for a broad public debate on the necessary measures and changes to the pension system, which will ensure the stability of pension funds and intergenerational solidarity in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Since the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSi and Desus groups to Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 4a and Article 4b and since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 2 is also substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 4a and Article 4b, we will discuss the amendments to these Articles together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 2, 4a and 4b and the three amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus Group's three amendments. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. First he gets the word Eva Irgle [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I suggest we finish this round of debates, and then we open the second round. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You're gonna move somewhere. I suggest we hold a debate, and then we open a re-appeal. Please proceed with procedure, Mr. Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u92	President, I have important arguments that I want to represent the amendment and the position of the pensioners, and I applied for the debate, and the computer didn't see me like my colleagues, Bah Žibert. I therefore ask if we can once again put to the vote to discuss that we are in an equal position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u93	I propose that we hold a list discussion and then proceed with the next round of application. First of all, he has the word Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! If we look a little wider at the law itself and the content before us, let me say that caring for the elderly and pensioners has undoubtedly always been one of the priorities of this government, which is reflected in various actions. We must be aware that we are all in an extremely difficult time together. You know what's going on in the health field, we are all a little tired of everything together, but the fact is that many have been taken care of at that time, and it has also taken care of the pensioners who, if we look at just the solidarity allowance, have received between € 130 and 300, depending on the amount of the pension. The competent ministries, both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, are working on the final adoption of the Long-term Care Act. We know that this story has been dragging for a very long time like the yoke of a snake, that a lot has been invested in some studies in this area, and then it hasn't moved from point A to point B. Well, today this is moving, and I hope that we will also have a law on long-term care in the National Assembly. And the third point is definitely the creation of a demographic fund. Before I go to the amendments, allow me to say the following. We have already proposed many good solutions in the past for pensioners. I'm talking about the Slovenian Democratic Party. So we felt the distress of the pensioners all the time, and we also wanted to save them. But I must say, we were repeatedly rejected by the then coalition. We have proposed to raise the minimum pension for old and disabled pensioners, even in the case of invalidity pensions, we have proposed several times, and finally this is now being resolved. I am very pleased that this is so, so the lowest invalidity pensions are somehow raised to a level, let's say, social assistance. We have also proposed in the past a rise in the dose rate, but you have always been against it, I think, even in the Sab party. Well, now things are changing. Then we suggested that during the retirement period also take into account the time you had accumulated, even here you were against. Thus, the pensioners were in an unequal position with those who were recognised as pensionable without a sum. That's why we were doing this at the time. You were against it. Well, we solved that today. As previously mentioned in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, we have already proposed in the past to eliminate discrimination against farmers. We fixed that, too. This was undoubtedly the case for discriminating, as former farmers paid the amount of insurance for the full extent of the rights after they retired, and they were granted only a narrower range of rights and thus a lower amount of pension. This was urgently needed to be corrected, and at that time, of course, we had a good discussion on the work committee. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u95	My colleague Eva, I propose that you discuss the amendments so that we do not spread the debate to history and beyond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u96	I'll, I'll focus, all right. Thank you so much for the heads-up. If we go to the amendments themselves. In the coalition, we have drafted amendments raising the amount of the guaranteed pension from EUR 581 to EUR 620. This is the amount representing 65.42% of the lowest pension base this year. I hope such an amendment is adopted, or I believe it will. The amendment then assured us that the minimum amount of disability pension, as already adopted by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, is being restored. This means that the lowest invalidity pensions are increased to 41% of the lowest pension base. It has been well said before that this represents approximately EUR 389. And the third thing we propose within these amendments is that the lowest pension this year will be set at 29.5% of the lowest pension base, which is exactly 279.56 euros. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we undoubtedly improve the position of pensioners with the lowest pensions, the position of disabled pensioners and, of course, also of pensioners in general, since this amount would otherwise have reached 29.5% significantly later. I will support both our amendments and then the law. We will certainly continue to work towards improving as much as possible the quality of our fellow citizens, pensioners, and, of course, we will still work to care for the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. I think it's about time we apologized to our fathers and mothers and to all our ancestors. Instead of being grateful and proud of them, we look for their mistakes and extremely humiliating talk about their time, although they have actually left us a very large – a built-up country with all the necessary infrastructure, hospitals, universities, a solid functioning economy, financial institutions, good banks, good insurance companies, and also with a rather exemplary degree of pluralism for that previous system. And we shared this heritage, instead of upgrading it, for a great deal among ourselves, and we also spent a great deal of money on it. I have to summarise, the self-contributions have been arranged, kindergartens, schools, hospitals, low wages have given up in the good future generations and we have come to this Slovenia with a 20% budget debt, and now we are approaching 100 percent and we owe our children. I think we should apologize to those who have built all these things. What we are doing is human and right, so we have also tabled this amendment and our proposal to shorten at least the transitional period, to shorten those who are now retiring. That is why we will certainly support this, and I hope that we will also be supportive. As I hear from the debate, we are quite in agreement on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u100	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Do you know what the worst thing was to listen to in the explanation or position of a government representative? When she spoke of the poorest or the weakest in our society. These are pensioners and pensioners who receive these miserable pensions, say 240 euros, 250 euros, and actually without living on the edge, they live under the edge. In fact, they live and oppress poverty. We listen to these stories every day to those we work on the ground. It is not possible for a person to be deeply hurt or not to respond emotionally to situations where you meet older or retired or retired people who live — in fact, do not live, live — with these pensions and in fact want only to go to the store without question, or to have enough to pay water, electricity, and other bills the next day. We also have quite a few parties, which are, in fact, very opposed to our amendments, in fact, in the National Assembly for so many years or so many mandates that these things that we are discussing today should not be on the schedule at all or should we not discuss them at all anymore, talking about the extremely poor pensioners and pensioners who live with these pensions they receive. And what is most terrible in this case is that people do not realize or realize that so many of these extremely low pensions receive cleaners or service staff, who have also worked for 30, 40 years, even in the field. In such a case, the Lord should also now be upset there – since you had a chance, you could have arranged this 20 years ago [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u101	Comrade Korazi, you have a word, don't argue with people who don't have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u102	Thank you. Well, I have to respond, don't I? In any case, as has already been said, it would be time or time to stop talking about these things that we are discussing today. And we have to, because that's what needs to be arranged. It is imperative to raise the lowest pensions that are truly below the threshold, not below the threshold of poverty, below the threshold of survival, of bare survival. Of course, I would like you to support our amendment, if it were accepted, to guarantee a pension from EUR 581 to EUR 613, and a pension of EUR 613 would then be eligible for 24 000 pensioners. We'd raise the guaranteed pension for a total of about 80,000 pensioners. I know, recently or even in recent days, there has been a lot of debate as to how much this would cost the pension fund or the budget and these matters. I know there's been a rebellion on all fronts, which is actually incomprehensible. I have to admit, I've been desperate lately, both over the National Assembly and over the country. When we talk about the weakest and the poorest in our society, we constantly fight about them, but we never talk about those who get the most or who have the most, how appropriate and proper to tax them in order to return them to the country or society. In such cases as today, it is incomprehensible if you do not support this amendment, even a party that advocates pensioners. And then we listened on television to a variety of nebulosis, for example, that the president of the Union of Retired Slovenians is against the rises of a miserable or lowest pension. It's just in Zimbabwe, for example. And I don't want to offend Zimbabwe in any way, but Mr. Janez Janša uses Zimbabwe's hedges quite often to clear it up. Mostly, please. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u103	Please leave peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u104	In any case, I ask you to support our amendment. Everyone has a lady, gentlemen, a pensioner, a pensioner, or a poverty-stricken pensioner in his family or in his or her immediate family. Not only are they breaking through with these miserable pensions, but they're actually quiet because they don't want to expose themselves to being poor. I can tell you from field experience that these people who have the least don't usually say anything, they don't ask for anything because they're the most ashamed. We will be their voice, I am their voice, and by supporting this amendment, you will also become their voice here in the National Assembly. Not only will you say that you stand up for, but today you have the perfect chance to really stand up for those who really need your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, guests! In a way, we have today in the processing or consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. A number of novelties have already been tabled on this law, today the proponents – I will say, in fact, it does not matter who they are – most of them, including the coalition join and support the bill, but we have, of course, duly amended it. It is therefore about improving the financial situation and thus the social situation of pensioners, this difficult situation which certain layers and pensioners are already facing. Of course, we all have in mind those who will become. However, we need to know that in no case can we compare those who are healthy at this time but who are not working and those who are currently well employed and will in some way come to some favourable status in old years with all these adjustments so that they can survive culturally. If I touch this, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have somehow heard these distresses of pensioners and their requests for a more just pension and social system, and then with amendments to the law, we have added certain proposals so that the percentage will increase over a certain transitional period, which will now be four years. With the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups and coalitions, we have also raised the lowest invalidity pensions. It is important that the disability pension, which is lower than the guaranteed amount, is defined as a minimum amount of EUR 383 which is approaching social assistance. To these amendments left to Article 39. In fact, the Government also supports the proposal for amendments to the law, and Zpiz also agreed on our committee that something must be done, and if there is a political consensus, why not. But they both pointed out that Slovenia's pension and disability system does not bring about rapid changes, and therefore we must be fair to all pensioners. Higher rights may only be granted gradually during a well-defined transitional period. They could be liked, such as these amendments by the Left, but they tend to be more inclined than they are to set minimum pensions on the basis of minimum cost of living regardless of the contributions paid. If I touch this, I could be convinced that people would be given the lowest pension or that those with 15 or 20 years of work would receive at least EUR 420, but then those with 40 years of work would have to give 800 euros. But we do know that a system like this would not be able to handle this moment. As a result of these amendments, the Left cannot be supported, and the law and amendment of the coalition will be fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! As we have heard, the initial objective or main purpose of this law was to shorten the transitional period for men, so that they, like women, come to this 63.5% pension as soon as possible, and this transitional period is reduced from six to four years. The second objective that was agreed upon, which was already achieved within the examination by the Labour Committee, the family, was to set minimum invalidity pensions, for which we have also tabled an amendment in the coalition and set that amount at least 41% of the pension base, amounting to some EUR 390. And then, as we know, at the previous plenary session, there was also the populist amendment of the Left, with which we can bring down our entire pension system. That's why we were forced to table new amendments in the coalition. That is, we agree or fully agree with ourselves that those who have worked full-time – that is, 40 full years of work or women in the past 38, 39 years of their full-time period – must receive a pension higher than a security allowance and also from the poverty threshold. Therefore, we propose to raise the guaranteed full-time pension to EUR 620. The bonus price is now €591 and we fully agree that there must be a positive difference for those who have worked for 40 years to get more than a security allowance, so that after 40 years of work they do not have to invest in a social work centre. It's the other way around. We are also restoring the lowest invalidity pension on the previous 41% pension base, as I said, to EUR 390. Here I want to explain that the calculation of the pension base or disability pension covers the solidarity allowance or this social component. For as from the day when the first category of disability occurs, all those who retire with disabilities are included in the fixed years of work; two thirds of those years are up to the age of 60 and half of those years are from the age of 60 to 65. Thus, these years are counted as working, so that in the case of disability pensions this solidarity or social moment is already involved. However, with regard to the lowest pensions, of course we cannot agree that they all rise to 442 euros, as was voted the previous amendment of the Left, because this will ruin all the payments relations. As we have heard today, those who paid 15 years would have the same pension as those who would have paid 29 years. Then, in fact, after 15 years, everyone will stop paying and they will rather save for themselves elsewhere, and the question is, how much will we then collect in the pension register? It is also wrong to compare those who paid a lower level, because here the contributions are very low, rather low, and we cannot compare them with others, since they consciously chose such an extent of insurance. Once again, I would like to stress what Zpiz also stresses, after all, the ZDUS: the pension box is not a social treasury. We can help pensioners in some other way – and also help them through social transfers, protective allowances – but the pension box is not a social treasury. This is precisely why, already in 2012, the security allowance was exempted from the pension allowance, which is not paid by Zpiz, but paid by social work centres. At the time, however, the protective allowance was actually a social component because it was paid depending on the income of the family members and also on the length of the contributions paid. This social component was thus transferred to CSDs, social work centres, already in 2012, as it was then the aim of the pension fund to clear up unpaid contributions. We have already heard today, and once again I stress that the amendment proposed by the Left does not agree with the Council of Zpiz and not the Alliance of Retired Persons, because it would be a violation of the fundamental principles of the pension system. And, as it is said, social problems cannot be resolved in the system of compulsory and pension insurance, as they are mainly based on the amount and length of contributions paid. It also has certain solidarity notes, but they cannot be a majority part, so they go beyond the other components, which are linked to the amount and length of contributions paid. That is why, with our amendment, coalitions and Desus parties, we are correcting the lowest pension to 29.5%. This height is the amount that would have been determined after the transition period, but we are now giving it to these percentages, 29.5%, which is now 280 euros and will then be aligned to all of them. All those who retired years ago and have lower pensions – as explained by the amendment – can see that those who retired by 2012 have the lowest pension of EUR 229, in 2016 EUR 236, in 2020, that is, last year have EUR 252. All of them will immediately move to this 29.5%, which is 280 euros. It seemed logical to us that for all the years back this height would then be aligned to everyone. This was the only thing that could then be justified and arranged. It is also important that this 280 euro includes all those who have paid contributions to a greater extent. So, all of them will get at least that amount. However, it is not possible for all those who have paid for a narrower scale to then have a pension of up to €440. What I must stress and say is also very important what we are regulating with these amendments, namely family and widow's pensions. So far, if a partner or a pensioner has a guaranteed pension – this is now EUR 580, if this is now accepted, and I believe that it will go to 620 – family and widow's pensions do not account for this amount, i.e. from the guaranteed pension, but from the actual pension of these beneficiaries or those who have died and are actually much lower in family and widow's pensions because they are not guaranteed. This is also being regulated by these amendments. But the truth is, there was no way to fix it back. It will then be further regulated that family and widow's pensions will be accounted for from the guaranteed pension and that the lowest pension will also apply to them, it is said that then the family pension will not be lower than the EUR 280, which I think is also one of the very good arrangements that could be reached within this system. In view of everything I say, I will support the amendments of the coalition parties and of Desus because they are just and also sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, chairman. For this meeting of the National Assembly, we received at the table coalition plus Desus amendments, which cut the acquisitions held at the previous hearing, namely that the lowest pensions absolutely rise to 442 euros and the lowest full-time pensions to 613 euros, as proposed by the amendment in Levica. I'll say, fortunately, the government, the coalition in this operation is not as harsh as it could have been. Apparently, public pressure has gone so far as to avoid cutting all the gains, such as a full-time pension increase, but only partially affecting itself. Unfortunately, it's at those points where the plight of the pensioners is the worst. The eradication of poverty was the main guide that pushed us to prepare this amendment in Levica. After all, rising pensions to this double bottom, to 442 euros and 613 euros, is also our programming point. If I continue to compare what we are proposing and what the Government is doing now. The government or its coalition says that the full-time pension is raised to EUR 620, which is basically ok, and I am disturbed by the fact that it is not a systemic or systematic intervention, as we are binding the long-term cost of living on the amount of the minimum full-time pension. Also, the percentage in disability pensions is rising, and at the very shortest, as I have already pointed out, the poor will be drawn. Those who have been provided with the lowest pensions of 442 euros as a pension bed at the previous reading will be tried by MEPs and members of the coalition to take 160 euros at today's hearing with the voting machine. 160 euros, ladies and gentlemen, you're going to take out poor people who already have nothing. 246 euros is the lowest pension in the country. Do you know who's getting it? Not some cheats and speculators, as you try to show, receive older single women, especially some farmers who have worked at home in a farm for the rest of their lives. As a result, their work is not shown in the pension register as something that should be rewarded or protected during age, and all that awaits them in their old age is poverty. This is how people with disabilities receive miserable pensions. These are the people who suffer the worst poverty, as far as the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance is concerned. What we have fought for and what we have proposed in Levica would help 138 thousand people; 58 thousand are those who would retire with this absolute lowest pension, and you today tell these people that they are speculators, that they do not deserve a safe age and so on. Then there is also an argument, yes, if we raise the absolute lowest pension to 442 euros and then it will not be worth the work, it will not be worth the contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not worth making and making contributions now, because you've been working like an animal your whole life, and then you've got some miserable pension that doesn't guarantee you a safe age. And you work, you work, you work your whole life, you barely get the chance to go to retirement, you retire, you're half disabled, you're devastated, you're nervous, you live another five years, then you die. That's why the logic that fills our pension system is really wrong. The poor die first, thus financing the pensions of those who were already the richest through life. That is why our pension register must become more social than it is. It is not true that what we are constantly listening to from coalitions and from Mr Sušnik from the ZDUS – that our pension register is not a social treasury, that it is managed by the insurance system. More than a billion euros of transfers from the budget cover pensions, which is more than one-fifth of the resources we need to cover pensions, and the budget is not filled with contributions, taxed. It is absurd to refer to the insurance system and claim that the pension insurance company is not. If she were a pension insurance company, there would be no need for her to be public. But since it's public, it's also solidarity. At least it's supposed to be, the elements of it are already embedded in the system. One is the budgetary transfer I mentioned, the other is the fact that the full-time pension guaranteed is already included in the pension system. The third argument is that the highest pensions are limited upwards. So, logic, as much as you've paid for working hours, you'll get as much at old age as you do now. Don't hold it, just a little bit. The derogations are quite clear. In Levica we say only that they should become even more social and that they should address the poverty of pensioners where the matter is the worst. The poverty of pensioners has been particularly deepened by the ideology, which is still being heard in the Parliamentary Chamber today, that the pension fund must somehow be separated from the social one. Since this story is not already true in the existing system, I have said it, but I will continue with what it meant in the past to act, following this ideology. It was most brutally operated by the SD government, specifically Minister Svetlik, followed by Anja Kopač Dark, that state pensions were abolished and formally replaced by a protective supplement. What happened? Practically overnight, the state pension lost 50,000 of the poorest pensioners who did not turn to social work centres for a protective allowance. Why not? Since the legislation lays down a condition for the return of a protective additive in such a way as to ensure that the recipient of the protective additive sits on the property and seals it. This is not social aid and it is not a social system, it is lending to the poor, so that their families can get that little property that they may have, what kind of apartment in the city, home, some house in the countryside and so on. And now to someone who has worked his whole life and has suffered from poverty, you are today telling an elderly woman to go to the old age to humiliate herself at the social work center, to sign a variety of statements there, to take her down practically to the gats through 40 different records, to still get that dressing protection supplement. Look, this isn't the end of the story. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u111	Comrade Kordish, I suggest you return to Article 2, Article 4, Article 4, Article 4b and the contents of the amendments. Please don't complicate it and we'll discuss the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u112	I never left him. I will continue, President, because that is precisely the point of the agenda. The bearing argument of your party and the amendments that your party has co-signed, the chairman, is that the pension fund should be separated from the social treasury, and I am discussing this precisely, these are amendments to point 2. Even after this woman has overcome all obstacles, the entire labyrinth of the social system and humiliation, as in force for us, will not receive this protective supplement unconditionally, the state will sit on her property [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u113	Comrade Kordish, I suggest you return to the content of the amendments and articles, or I will take your word. The protective allowance shall be a category not covered by these three Articles and those three amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u114	Amendments to this Article shall explicitly refer to a protective allowance and to social transfers in combination with pensions, chaired. If you don't mind, I'll proceed. All these are the reasons why the systematic targeting of pensioners' poverty is only possible in the way proposed in Levica. It is said that the lowest pensions rise to EUR 442 and the lowest full-time pensions to EUR 613, i.e. to short-term and long-term living costs. Everything else is just blisters, playing one group of poor pensioners against another group of poor pensioners, and certainly not what the government likes to call a systemic solution. For €70 million, the annual budget transfer to the pension fund would be higher, which is an extremely negligible amount to help people go instead of twice a month to the Red Cross only once a month without having to eat their dinners out of cat cans. To the conclusion. The government's proposal also forgot family pensions, widow's pensions, and something else that the Labour Counsellor points to, and where serious injustices are also committed, it's on disability benefits. The solution that we have proposed in Levica is, as we say, systemic and bypasses all of these categories. I hope that the coalition, government, as we tell them, the amendments will not be accepted today, because it seems absolutely unacceptable to me to leave someone's pension deep below the risk of poverty and that today the privileged ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament and Members of the poor will take 160 euros a month, which we have barely collected and provided them with at their previous hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! The proposal we have on the table, in the part we proposed in Levica, directly affects 140,000 people in Slovenia, 140 thousand pensioners. And because, hand to heart, the pension system is as complex as it is today, I, I think, rightly, ask who really understands it in this room to the point and fully understands it. I will allow myself to explain in a very simple language in a very simple way what we are doing today. A hand to the heart, between the people, between the pensioners and the pensioners is quick to wonder what a dose rate means or what a transitional period is, as we have heard today. Or what it is or how the pension register works. That is why I think that we are obliged to explain what we are really talking about today and how the political decisions we are making here, whether it is the adoption of our amendment or the adoption of another amendment, are being passed, translated into the life of one pensioner or one pensioner. The facts are very simple. At this point, we're operating on a pension system that's not fair. It is not particularly fair because pensioners and pensioners who have worked, regardless of whether they have worked for 15 years or 40 years, are largely excluded from the possibility of normal survival. In Slovenia we have 230 and several thousand people living below the poverty line, only 90,000 of whom are pensioners and pensioners. The most common thing we've heard today is the impact of a female farmer over 65 years of age. So, many of the pensioners who have paid into this pension system today do not get enough out of it for their own survival. Why is that? The second fact is that it is a matter of political decisions from the past. Either on behalf of savings or on behalf of the maintenance of the pension fund or with any excuse, the matter of a political decision so far was to keep a certain number of pensioners and pensioners in poverty. The victims of these political decisions are, of course, directly people, pensioners, we hear, with a minimum pension of EUR 275 or a day ago, I heard the confession of a family talking about their grandmother, a 86-year-old peasant woman who receives her rural pension of EUR 182. Let's say one victim of political decisions in the past and an unfair pension system. I'm not going to owe you. The solution's in the palm of my hand. The solution offered by our amendment, i.e. the amendment of the legacies of the Left, and which force is simple. Force easy solution for a very complex sum and stitch the pension system. It offers answers to all the arguments that have been in force in the past and which have been served by political space so that no change can be introduced. First. The solution we are proposing is sustainable for the pension fund. She's sustainable. It is true that it takes EUR 69 million to the expenditure level but, on the other hand, it has already contributed 560 million over the next four years at the annual level. So on one side minus 69, on the other side plus 560, so much for sustainability. The result and what is best known on the ground among people and what is most valuable: those with the lowest pension, either EUR 275 or whatever, will simply jump with their TRR, with their wallet up to at least EUR 442, which is also calculated the lower limit of short-term cost of living. 442 euros, these are not millions, we are not offering a life in no uncertain luxury, but minimal survival is something that any person who has contributed to the construction of society or not must receive. The ones with an old pension, i.e. with the whole working age of 40 years, and in a similar way, EUR 613, which is the least solidarity, which can be shown as politicians, as decision makers to every citizen and citizen of Slovenia. I must respond quickly to some of the dilemmas that you have expressed by Members and Members either now in the debate or in the views of the groups of Members. Most of all, it flies to the argument that it may not be fair that someone will now receive the same pension for 15 years of work as someone who has worked for 30 years. The pension system and dosing percentages are being repaired by the Government and the Left and our arguments through the amendments here are not responsible for the system being unfair as it is. The miserable situation on the pension map has been the responsibility of all governments so far, and we have been equally critical in the previous mandate or in the previous constellation until the pension reform of the Sharča government. Here, more than some claims or the reasons why, I ask a few questions. Why is the situation like this, I ask you a few questions. Whom, when we talk about giving someone 442 euros to survive - once again, I am talking about 442 euros - we are not talking about a new million tax leave, as the current government proposes with an anti-social cap, but we are talking about 442 euros for survival. The more the question arises, who can, in fact, interfere with the fact that we provide this sum to someone. Why not? Why should a person not, after contributing to society, when working no matter how many years, receive at least EUR 442 of minimum pensions in order to ensure that his survival is just equal to the minimum cost of living? And the question is, who do we take with this, if it's not fatal for the pension fund, if it's not fatal for anyone? And the question is, does anyone with 640 euros of pension actually have anything else if someone else lives with 250, 275 euros on the other side? And even if it is a disabled pensioner, is it his fault that he is a disabled pensioner, or is it his fault that he, for example, suffered injury at work on a disability pension or that after 29 years he is forced to retire and receive that pension of EUR 300? Is he guilty of harming himself for agreeing to such a low level? My call is that these very simple solutions to the key problems that we face as a society, support, arguments that I have heard against this, are not in fact standing, are not public finances, they are not social, they are not at all. Members and Members of Parliament, I call for their support and, finally, after 30 years of politics in this country, let us do something concrete. Not only those two euros of increase or two euros of higher pensions and similar measures that were co-ordinated to the pensioners and pensioners, but that we should really fix one concrete thing that will solve this most pressing problem in the Slovenian society, which is the poverty of pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Other measures have also been taken. Since there was an interest in the application earlier, I am initiating the application procedure. Please sign up. First he gets the word "Joseph Horvath." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are considering the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, ZPIZ-2I. So we're talking about the pension system. An extremely important system, which is practical at any time, if I look back from today's perspective or from the future, which is even more important, extremely important matter for both Slovenia and Europe as a whole. It's not exactly a system where every other day we talk about different numbers, it's a pension and disability insurance. If we are employed, we receive a salary, we receive a gross salary and each employee pays 15.5% in the pension register and each employer pays 8.85% of the same base. Together, if we round, it goes to a quarter, almost 25% or more, 24,35%, from a gross salary to a pension box from each person who receives a gross salary. This is very important. Why do some have lousy, low pensions? There are at least two reasons. The first is that someone was paying contributions from an extremely low base. Another may be that someone has paid contributions for a very short period of time, perhaps just a few years, not 40 years, but just a few years. The result is – this is the system, and it is not only in Slovenia – that such a pension can then be extremely low. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are a social state. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that in 2019 almost a quarter of a million citizens lived below the poverty threshold, which means that a one-member household just received less than 703 euros per month or less than 8 000 440 euros per year. But we're a social state. But it is true that at this meeting, at this point in the agenda, we do not talk about poverty, how to eliminate it, how to optimize the pension system. These are two big differences, and I'm sorry that some not only missed the point of the agenda, they even missed the meeting, even the location probably. Since we are a social state, here I very clearly and aloud call on all citizens and citizens, more precisely pensioners and pensioners who have poor pensions to fulfil and issue a role, i.e. a form for monetary social assistance and/or a protection allowance. Now the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities led by Mr Janez Cigler King, this form, this role has made this very simple, you need seven minutes if you think for a little longer 10 minutes, and you can be entitled to cash social assistance or a security allowance. The maximum is 591.20 euros, the price for the security allowance is 598 euros. Someone said that if you are receiving financial social assistance or any kind of assistance, the country is sealing your assets. That's not true. That's not true. This was until 2017, since then it has not been true, unless you live in a real estate, a house, an apartment worth more than €120,000. We need to talk about this, and we need to talk about how our responsibility is, if we are as rational as we are, that no system — now I am talking about the pension system — should we fail the pension system. I say very clearly here, on behalf of New Slovenia, that the adoption of the amendment in the second reading of the Left actually caused the pension system to collapse. This is not a political debate, this is a professional debate, supported by conclusions adopted by the Council of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, so that if the critics fly to me, they also fly to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance or to the Council of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, which states in the second decision, this decision is dated 17 March, that the Council of the Institute opposes the intervention in the system of compulsory pension and disability insurance, which means the destruction of the fundamental principles of the system; social policy should not be resolved within the framework of compulsory pension and disability insurance. I have talked about this and, of course, we can only agree on this, in fact, if we are rational. Since that vote on the amendment of the Left was extremely irrational, another president of a party attacked, in particular, members of the Desus, who, I always admit, are working for the pensioners on a permanent basis, depending, of course, on the political power or influence they have in any coalition. They had it in this one or they had it in it. The third decision of the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance: “Proposal of the Law of ZPIZ-2I” is the one we are currently considering: “Let the third reading change in the way it was adopted on the parental committee, where the proposal proposed a reduction of the transitional period for raising the percentage for men from six to four years and the introduction of invalidity pensions of at least 41 % of the lowest basic pension in force in 2021”. These are the conclusions of the institution, the highest body of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. Not to forget, I thank the Members and Members of the SAB who have tabled the amendment of the law, and I also thank you that we are within the coalition and beyond – and more broadly, because it is very important – we have found a consensus to upgrade this law. This is just another school example of how we can if, with some goodwill, if rationally, not by tearing down, we step in together and make rational decisions. I will also support our concern for the pensioners by very quickly reminding them that, since we took over the country last March, we have implemented some 540 million euros in addition to regular pensions for all Slovenian pensioners. Here I recall the regular annual coordination of pensions of 3.2% under the law, which was about € 172 million, that pensioners and pensioners with the lowest pension, i.e. below €700, were paid twice the so-called solidarity allowance, twice the amount of €67 million, most recently on January 11th of this year, that a regular annual allowance of about € 139 million was paid to pensioners for the month of June, and that we all adopted a law last December on extraordinary reconciliation of pensions of 2%, which brought around €94 million, i.e. around €540 million in addition to regular pensions. And that's right. With this, we have not yet corrected all the injustices that occurred to pensioners during the worst economic crisis, and even in the years when the conjuncture was such that they could do so. The future development of pension systems has indeed been the topic of both Slovenian and the wider European political and professional public in recent decades. We all know what demographic trends are like, which represents, I speak for Slovenia, in the future, an extremely high fiscal risk. Slovenia, like most developed European countries, which have a longer tradition of public pension systems, faces changed demographic and economic assumptions and assumptions, which also underlines the weaknesses of the current evidence system, including financial incoherence, the impact on economic growth, non-compliance with the principle of equal treatment and, above all, the low level of work of older people in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, when I speak of the economy [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u119	Comrade Horvat, please concentrate on three articles and two times three amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u120	Now I am closing my debate, connecting it with the economy and reminding it of the action plan to increase productivity in Slovenia, which is very lame for us; we are about 19% below the European average. Mr Dusan Maramor, whom we all know, spoke or spoke on 150 pages about state pensions. I suggest you read this because this is really not the point of the agenda, and you will experience, you will read the brutal truth, the emphasis is on the truth. With regard to the amendment we have co-signed, the amendment of the coalition and Desus to Article 2 and the related amendments to the next article, we will, of course, unanimously support these amendments and we will also reject the amendments of the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Replica Primaj Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I have to respond to Ambassador Horvath. I agree with him in his work when he examines how to optimize the pension system, but in optimizing such a system is a key issue or goal of improving the situation of pensioners and pensioners, retired workers, retired farmers and so on. If there is no reform [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u123	Comrade Siter, you have a discussion now, not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u124	Replica. My colleague responded to our implementation and I have all the business rights [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u125	This is not a replica because it has nothing to do with misunderstanding. It's no problem if he responded to your performance, the problem is if he didn't understand you, but he didn't. You have a debate now, you can apply in the next round. Mr. Reich [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] First I ask Mr. Reich. There's no proposal here. You don't have time. Oh, yes, you do. I'm sorry. First of all, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u126	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to warn you that the replica of Comrade Sutter was correct. My second procedural proposal, however, is that you are a little cautious in your interventions. Otherwise, I like that the meeting is proactively being held, but I do not like that the President's interventions are sometimes unfounded, while the time that Members have available for discussion is running in our hour, while you speak. When Primoz Siter speaks, he writes up Primoz Siter, and Jozeta Tanka is heard in the hall. That's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u127	Comrade Kordish, I suggest you do not abuse or violate the rules of procedure in the future with proposals that are not procedural in nature. The drafter of mags has the floor. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the SAB, of course, we are very pleased that we have somehow achieved a very broad support for our proposal, so that the transitional period for raising the dose percentage for men is reduced from 6 years to 4 years. Although we wanted this period to be shorter, after consulting the pension fund and the government, we have reached a compromise that I think is good for everyone. I think that this proposal is particularly good in order to reduce the risk of poverty among pensioners. We also know that, as a rule, men's pensions are higher than women's pensions; and even in the case of the calculation of widow's pensions, this also essentially improves the social situation of women. I'm glad this thing has somehow gotten better. Otherwise, these are not all the injustices that have taken place. Of course, the pension register has a number of challenges related to a long-lived and long-term society. On the one hand, we will also need to ensure in the future that the resources of the pension fund are stabilised. We already know that in the current year we are paying around a billion euros from the budget for pensions. And one of the measures that can stabilise the pension allowance is the previous entry of young people into the labour market. Today, we know that in Slovenia, young people are relatively later entering the labour market compared to their European colleagues. And also the OECD recommendations go in this direction to get young people to work more actively and to avoid the forms of recreation, i.e. through some student services. That is why we will also have to ensure measures on this side so that young people can study, get a job and start working on time. It is inevitable that in the near future we will also have to extend working hours somehow, thus raising the retirement age. In this regard, in the SAB, it is recalled that it will be necessary to keep in mind all workers who are exhausted and exhausted. Physical workers are likely to be unable to work until the age of 70 or 67, such as someone working in public administration. It will therefore be necessary to adapt jobs. And that is why in the SAB we point out that this green agreement, or the Next Generation of the EU programme, will also have to be used to adapt to jobs by working for a longer time to adapt jobs to older people and thus to be more friendly. Another issue that we are also very proud of in the SAB concerning pensioners is, of course, the introduction of free public inter-country transport [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u129	Comrade Reich, I suggest you return to the agenda. Here [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u130	I'll be right there. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u131	You had three minutes outside the framework of debate on articles and amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u132	Well, one second. It should be stressed in this context that it is very important to ensure the mobility of the elderly, which will in fact allow them to remain active for a longer period of time as well as to remain healthy. We also welcome the proposal to raise disability pensions, i.e. to 41%, as well as other matters as proposed in the law. Once again, I stress that it is very important for us to shorten this transitional period, that it is reduced from 6 years to 3 years or 4 years, as agreed, so that these injustices that have been committed in the past are eliminated so that the percentage for men and women is equal as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u134	President, thank you for your word. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will try to make some arguments to see that the Left Amendment, to raise the lowest pensions to 442 euros, is a short-term minimum cost of living, the matter stands. But first, I'd like to say this. Pensions in Slovenia are so low that it is embarrassing. Normal pensions; since 2015, including 2015, the average pension was below the poverty risk threshold. Secondly, today we are talking about the social state of Slovenia, which says in the constitution that people must survive with 246 euros when they are older. How can you survive these costs, especially when you are older, or have you been retired early as a disabled person, become sick or lost your job on your own; how can you survive? And the proposal here today is actually talking about important work – about 58,000 people in Slovenia, our fellow citizens, the citizens we represent here today, and we must provide them with the adoption of the amendment given by Levic, at least the least the least the most tolerated life. And when a colleague of Mojca Žnidarič said that the pension register was not a social cash register, or a colleague of Horvat from Prekmurje said that only the socially weak pensioners, the poor, those who do not literally eat, should turn to the welfare centre for help, I would just like to say this. In 2018, 89,000 pensioners lived below the poverty line. At that time, after amending social legislation as an addition to pension from the pension system, the protective allowance was transferred to social security. What happened then? Of the 50,000 who received the protection allowance in 2011, only 13 thousand received it in 2012. What happened here? In this regard, we all agreed that a serious injustice had taken place. At the same time, it was, and it should be remembered that when the contribution to the pensioner's employer was halved in 1996, the cashier took a huge amount, which today must be financed by the budget. As a result, no pension money is available and, in the previous government, in the previous coalition contract — including SMC and Desus — this agreement has been signed that employers’ contributions should be increased gradually by 0.8% per year in four years. As former colleague Siter said, this is practically about money that was once in the cash register, 500 million a year. And now I'd like to say this, turn to the social work center. First, they answer: You have children — let your children support you. I'm sorry. I've been working on a family matter myself, and I know her, and I know her. And then the pensioners have children who receive money from social assistance who are unemployed and let them finance even poorer parents.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u135	My friend Siter, I propose. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u136	A bricker, a bricker.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u137	you too, to define yourself to the content of articles and amendments. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u138	Yeah, right now. And when it is said that the pension box is not social; a billion of the five billion needed for pensions is paid from a budget financed by taxes to all citizens in this country, including the poor, who today have EUR 246 pension. And from this money, out of this billion 200 provided by the state budget, the highest pensions are also financed. And the pension system has changed four times in recent years — in 1982, 1992, 2000 and 2013. And with each change, the conditions for retirement have increased, new inequalities among pensioners have been created, and virtually saved on pensioners. These changes increased working hours to obtain a pension, while at the same time reducing the percentage. That is why we have come to the point today that we are talking about the poorest population in our country. And the third thing I'd say is that those with the lowest pensions get pensions for the shortest period of time. These are burned - out people, especially older women, as we would like to point out, farmers, whether at home or in the city had to take care of the children, had to care for the elderly, had to do countless things in the family. This is an invisible work without which this society would not be, and an important part of GDP is co-created, but not rewarded because it does not pay pension contributions, this invisible work, especially women, is not recognised. I would like to say that those with the lowest pensions, as I said before, are disabled, the patients who lost their jobs early, were fired, lived practically short periods of time, fewer pensions acquired. And the poor finance so practically the pensions of the rich, who have a life expectancy longer. And so in France, Picketty was able to prove that the distribution of pensions is not neutral, but is carried out in the opposite direction; from the poor to the rich. As those who live richly and comfortably or live longer, we have more pensions. But the one who's burned has a shorter life span. And we know about Slovenia that someone who has a pension of between a thousand 200 and a thousand 300 euros receives the last one on average for 16 years. On average, someone who has a pension of 200, 300 euros receives an average of 13.6 years. And this difference between receiving pensions between the poor and the rich is then reflected in the number of years they receive. We therefore assess, colleagues and colleagues, that this minimum, which concerns the elderly in the Republic of Slovenia – the social state – is constitutionally, we need to ensure to those who have pensions 246 and several more euros. Look, under 442 euros, there are 58 thousand older people. Or we'll be cold till then, and we'll say that if they get that pension, there's no injustice here. While all of these contribute through taxes and contributions to the state budget, from which an average of 5 billion per year amounts to a billion 200 per pension. Today we are talking about people, about the population of the elderly, about their social and material situation, we cannot be proud, but we must correct it. I'm talking about poor people, I'm talking about people who didn't have access to a home for the elderly before this epidemic because they didn't have enough beds. We are talking about people who, if they come into this situation, are not provided with long-term care, we are talking about people, citizens and citizens whose group paid the highest blood tax during the covida-19 epidemic by the number of dead. And I don't think we should stop here today when we have to raise our hands to see if those of our oldest, retired, disabled, those who have not lost their jobs because of their guilt and have a lower working time deserve this minimum of 442 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of all the previous debate, I have to repeat my words from the opening position: –return – pensions are not a social transfer; pensions are no privileges; pensions are an income for the deserved work of an individual worker, which he has earned in view of how long he has paid for the pension. I understand that there must be some populist proposals from the opposition, but these proposals also need to be looked at in substance and also show themselves what this means in the future. You've tied someone who's worked for 15 years and paid for this pension fund, to someone who's been paying for this pension fund for almost 30 years. So you've completely evaluated someone's contribution over the next 30 years, because after that you'd both get the same pension, no matter what their pension base was. Whether someone has contributed 15 or 30 years, we now give the same pension. We believe that this proposal is not only unfair, unfair and, of course, long-lastingly financially incoherent, but in particular undermines the foundations on which the pension system itself is founded. And because of this and, on the other hand, because we know that the pension system has contributed over the years to certain injustices and anomalies within it, we have prepared our proposals with the coalition amendment, which are also sustainable in the long term, and in particular respect for these foundations and foundations on which the current pension system is built. And so our proposal raises those lowest pensions, corrects those lowest invalidity pensions and, on the other hand, raises pensions for a full 40-year pension base. And here I have to correct Member Kordish, who has been deceiving, deceiving or unwilling to keep your raise for these full 40 years. You're not leaving your raise. Here we have raised to €620 pension for 40 years of retirement, because after all it is someone who has contributed to the pension fund over 40 years of age, so he has worked and contributed more than someone who has worked for less than 40 years. Yes, we also agree that there are quite a few injustices in this system, which we have already warned the Slovenian Democratic Party all along; and we have not been heard in the previous government of Marjana Sarca. There was no obedience from the then coalition to support our proposals. Among other things, I am talking about these farm pensions, there has been a lot today, especially by the representatives of the Left, about these lowest farm pensions, how you have highlighted the rural women here in particular. It's really very bad, what kind of pension someone has to spend a month with. But when we proposed these corrections, that these pensions be increased according to how much someone paid into the pension register, no matter what status category he had in payment, unfortunately under the previous government of Marjana Sarca, we were not heard and neither was the majority needed. But now we have changed this when we are in the coalition; and this injustice has been corrected. Also regarding the acquisition of study and military years. These are people for, I speak for about 56,000 then insured who paid this sum under the rules in force at the time and, of course, honestly believed that when they retired, they would also be granted this on a pension basis; but they were not. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also corrected this proposal to correct this injustice, and once again, by the then Marjan Sarca coalition, there was no hearing for it. And yes, we've fixed it now that we have a chance and we're alone in the coalition. The lowest invalidity pensions; I believe that we all agree that disabled persons are a special category, especially those who have left their health in the workplace and had to retire prematurely. And it is right for their pensions to be raised so that at least some basic social minimum is guaranteed. But if we had previously supported a good two years ago, then the opposition proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party would have received such a pension today. Well, you didn't. This proposal was also rejected by the then government of Marjan Sarca. It is true, however, that the long-term sustainability of the pension allowance needs to be considered when preparing proposals for the novelty of the pension law. Finally, I am talking here about the law on the demographic fund, which should have been prepared after the ZPIZ around 2012 and is still missing; and this is also addressed by the current government. We all know that pensions are low and that it is difficult to survive on such incomes. However, it must be said that the pension fund is based on the contributions paid, i.e. on the insurance principle, with this social adjustment. And yet in the end, I still have to respond to the representative of the Party of the Left. Member Kordish has presented so beautifully how much you value work in your client. It was clear and loud that you wished that the coalition government amendments would not be accepted today. Do you know what that means? That those who have paid the longest in the pension register, those who have worked the longest if the government amendments do not accept, will get less because this proposal gives them a few less euros than what the government is now proposing. Thus, you who sometimes have a full mouth, how you fight for the workers, and, on the other hand, with such statements, you will know how much you value the work and those who have paid for the full 40 years in the pension box to make it clear today that you do not want this government amendment to be accepted in order to raise these pensions from EUR 581 to EUR 620. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter has the replica first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u142	Thank you very much. My colleague, this is all I want to say. If someone in the social state of Slovenia asks that no one should be hungry, is it demagogyism? This is what we talked about when we talked about school meals for elementary school students during long-distance education, and this is what we are talking about now when we talk about the elderly, when the media informs us or informs us of how sad, severe the elderly live in, and now I will not repeat what they must eat again. And secondly, something has said to us; when we say that there is no money and so on, no problems, these two amendments made by the Left are worth €69 million. As said by the director of ZPIZ, the Pope, that's 1% of the pension fund. At the same time, with a social cap, we call it antisocial, 120 million from the budget has been written off. Those who have 6 or more euros to pay. Without a problem, €53 million of supplementary health insurance is given to private insurance companies to cover their operating costs, marketing, not to mention the capital gains they have from this. Although these poor people too, these poor pensioners must pay for supplementary health insurance. Or, without a problem, 780 million people are hungry for weapons. This is one policy, these are priorities in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u143	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm sorry, Mr. Brickler. I changed your name. Mr. Kordish, the replica, let's stick to the rules of procedure, let's make the replica a replica, not a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u144	The replica is a replica because I was directly named. With its amendment, the SDS gives 7 euros more full-time pensions compared to what we have won in Levica, while at the same time taking 160 euros from poor pensioners. That's a lot of math. For 40 years of work, minimum wage, what kind of pension would come after the insurance system? Around €400, if there was no social adjustment. Or if one of the employees worked as a tradesman for 15 years, she will have a pension of 246 euros. We're raising this to 442 euros. Work is not worth it now, after this system, where 138 thousand pensioners are such that it is below the thresholds that we are defending and proposing in Levica. In fact, some twisted mentality today advocates SDS. It advocates equality of pensioners, equality in poverty, at least those who work their whole lives, and then cannot survive at an old age.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u146	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. If I start only at the end, with my colleague Kordiš, when we are talking today about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. With these amendments, however you turn them, no one gives anyone anything. The left hand doesn't give anyone anything. Let's be honest. If anyone gives, because of the amendment you tabled, he will have to give up a system that we already know is almost unendurable. Please don't give anything. But of course it's nice to table amendments when you're in opposition. In principle, I would still believe that you are really dealing with some solutions that might improve some things if you suggested this when you were actually a super-coal client. I didn't get a bill like that from you on the table. However, I am grateful to you very much, and I am very clear to you that you were the only party that supported our proposal at the time, twice, I was the proponent of a proposal to raise the lowest invalid pension; and you supported it. And I will always say it publicly. Correct. You supported him. At that time, we all ran out of hard votes. I am therefore a little surprised today when this proposal for a change bill was back on the table as part of the coalition, and suddenly those parliamentary groups that opposed it at the time took hold of it. That's a double act. This is duality and, with respect to these pensioners, it is very unfair. In fact, these pensioners could have had different pensions for a year and a half. Today, of course, you do not have some, including those who propose the law, with which you had no problems, at that time. At that time you had, even though you often advertised in your statements in the sense that you were advocating for pensioners. What bothers me most about this proposal made by the Left? I'll go from the top. I think the proposal itself was made in some kind of populism swing, with no real thought. And it was also adopted this way. Why am I saying this? If that is not true, then two of your amendments should really be supported, because the current state that we have is that the amendment has been backed up, which in some way, according to yours, saves only for the future. To those who are retired today, and of whom you say they are hungry, nothing would change. That's the solution. Then you realized that this probably wouldn't be good and now you've included another amendment in the third reading. But this proves to me that there was no serious thought about it, either, or I believe that it was not on the part of some who supported it. Why not? Because it was those who supported it that today, many times — in their views, it was heard — said that it was necessary and that we were responsible for the sustainability of our pension system and that we needed to take care not to undermine the system that is currently in place. And I agree, we have a very weak pension system, given that we are becoming an increasingly ageing society; and therefore certainly the law on demographics is very important and crucial for the future as well. Why can't I support your proposal? I believe that with some of the solutions that you have given, you are giving, or you are causing new injustices. I don't think it's in your interest, either, that those who have worked hard and honest work have paid into this system, with your solution in a way that they get on their heads. I'll explain why. You've said it honestly before, and I also agree that after 40 years of life, hard work is very difficult. True, after 40 years of work, people are burned up and it is very important, in our view, that we have also taken this into account in the amendment, which I will say exactly later. But you're essentially the ones who worked 15 years more than any other, 15 years more worked, 15 years longer worked hard, and lost their health. That's not fair. It's not right that they're even. They can't be even. You can't just forget someone 15 years of hard work. Otherwise, you tell them that all of this is meaningless and that the payment is for itself and that any amendment that breaks all of this can be accepted at any time. I also took a very detailed look at the opinion of ZDUS. I hope you did, too. You're just saying someone's making something up there, but they're warning me that this solution isn't good. And they are the ones who are somehow monitoring our pensioners and the system we have and alerting you to your solution. Moreover, they even say that if your solution is accepted, the right solution of the Left will take all the remedies available so that this proposal of yours will in fact refuse to be accepted because it is unfair. That's what they say. And today it's true, we're not just talking about who's hungry, but today we're talking about how much someone who's working gets. And that there is some difference in the system itself, which, as was said, the insurance system, we have some social connotation within us, but we do have some corrective arrangements, but in principle it is important that someone who pays into the system knows that. Now I'm going back to the amendments themselves. We in the coalition took a very thoughtful stand for this. We talked to different experts because we care, one, better life of pensioners and the other, that the system can hold. In doing so, we were glad that Desus was also involved, who was looking at these matters soberly. Because you know what kind of proposal you might come to the table with populism today. We're not gonna talk about numbers, but it's probably clear to everyone. But we are looking at what is sober and what is yet possible. And we've come up with some solutions that I think are good. In some parts even better than yours, that's what I said. Someone who has worked hard for 40 years has been leaving health and so on would now get 40 euros more than in current legislation. That is to say, 8 euros more than you suggest. This is ultimately important for these individuals, especially because you said that many of them are people who are in social distress. Also, disability pensions will finally be settled; of course, we cannot consider them to be pure social corrections, because these are the people who would work, work, but are deprived of their health. And now, eventually, they will eventually get to at least the level of those who receive social support after coordination. For so far, people who have not paid the euro and who have worked have received more than these disabled pensioners. That's what we're fixing now. It is also important that we also raise the percentage, but it is important that percentages are also the lowest pension base. In short, we don't compete with you because there's no competition in populism. Populism can always win. And we are competing with what we can actually do for people and that on the other hand it is still sustainable. And this proposal, which is covered by the coalition amendments, makes it possible. Not yours. This is not only said by the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is what the profession tells you. And to think, I believe you want to fix some things, but if you want them, join the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, SMC and Desus and support this amendment. As it is said, it brings some positive changes and is still sustainable. What you are proposing is predicted never to be established. And if we go out here with proposals that we know that they can't finally see the light of the world because they're not righteous and they're destroying the system, then there's no point. Of course you can upset the public with this. But as with your proposal, you upset the public on the one hand to talk about how the majority of the National Assembly does not want a better life for the pensioners, which is a pure lie, how we do not want their pensions to be raised, which is a pure lie; but the fact is that one is aware of real situations and some are sailing on the ark of populism. As it is said, this boat, of course, has broad wings. But all that matters is that it's fast to bump into the liver, because it doesn't have a chance to swim, because there's no conditions for that. I really hope for sobriety and that there will be a decision, however, to support the amendment that has been tabled by individual parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u147	I don't think you have any more time. Here, Mr. Kordish has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u148	Thank you. A very similar proposal was already tabled by Levica in the parliamentary procedure in 2019. So when you claim we were a super-coal client and we didn't do anything. We did, but we ran out of votes. It's a supercolation! And one more thing, Mr. Sušnik of ZDUS is not an expert, he's a rich pensioner who only cares about himself. When he was director of Alpetoura, he paid the workers minimum wages and ran the company; and today we want to save these workers, and you would take them away. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u149	President, please, if you allow me a replica of the replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u150	I'll allow you to do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u151	I won't talk about myself, because I can defend myself with a new application.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I will not talk about myself, because I can defend myself with a new application; but I think it is fine, but as much as I do not agree with individual pensions and pensions, I could say who is in favor, in the Slovenian Democratic Party privileged certainly not, while you are different here. But as far as ZDUS is concerned, it is not only Mr Sušnik who is signed here, but also President of the Commission for Pension Policy. And I think you're doing the wrong thing, like you want one individual to make a document. That's not fair, and that's not responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see he does. I'm asking you to sign up. Doesn't it work? Okay, Mr. Jurša, we'll assign you. Okay. First of all, Mr. Mag. Andrej Reich as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I have a little response to the debate that has just taken place. We are certainly not populists in the SAB, we know public finances very well. Our party president has been preparing more than 10, 20, even 30, if I am not mistaken, state budgets and she certainly knows all public finances well. And that is also why in the SAB we have consistently advocated the rights of pensioners and have successfully exercised them. Remember, even because of the knowledge of finance, Slovenia has come out of the crisis and has since 2014 recorded eight-year economic growth; and this is, of course, the result of knowing the finances of our party president, Alenka Bratušek. In fact, it is very important for us that the social situation or social status of more than 660 thousand beneficiaries be adequately regulated. And that is why we have always advocated the need to coordinate pensions, and we have also achieved this, a little less than 8%. Payment of the annual allowance as well. Although we wanted two heights, it just happens in three, but the main thing is that it's happening. And even in this amendment of the law, we have strongly demanded that, once we have achieved that the women's percentage has already risen to 63.5%, this also happens to men. And instead of achieving it in six years, thank God it's fixed and it's guaranteed in four years, so by the end of 2024. This seems very important to us. In doing so, we must not forget that at our initiative we have provided pensioners with free public inter-urban transport, and we also wanted to introduce this for local needs. We'll fight on that. But as far as the stability of public finances is concerned, especially the pension fund, we always take sides in the SAB party and advocate the need to provide demographic reserves, reserves so that pensions can be paid in the future. We are not in favour of the Government's current proposal, which is actually depriving the country of property and transferring all state property to one company. Not only does it essentially leave the country, but it also gives the country one major direct influence, which, of course, in situations like these, is not good, as because of the partial interests of certain parties, it can affect the policy of businesses and any other matter too quickly. We also believe that if we want to ensure stable pensions in the future, that other policies cannot be financed from this demographic fund, because money that is not enough now will be run out sooner. That's why we want generations that are yet to come to pensions to come. That is why we want funds to be accumulated in the demographic fund and then spent; this is for pensions only. However, I agree that we will have to address the causes of the manca in the pension register, which is now somehow co-financed by the state budget. One of the measures is certainly also the extension of the period of work, i.e. to enable young people to enter the labour market as soon as possible. This seems very important to us. It is also important to emphasise, for example, when we compare ourselves with neighbouring Austria or Germany and when we talk about the amount of pensions in Austria, that we know that in Austria there are more than three employees working for one pensioner and one half. And this is the kind of thing that we will also have to address and change in Slovenia and essentially accept all things that this pension gap, which is indicated by demographic changes and is actually already present, will be eliminated. Once again, I would like to point out that I thank all of you for supporting our Group's proposal that the transitional period for raising the dose percentage for men be reduced from 6 years to 4 years. Although we wanted 3 but we welcome any solution that goes towards equalizing the dose percentages and that these percentages for men are equal to women as soon as possible; and I thank you all for this support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Now the applicants will allow me to give the floor to Mr Franco Jurša first. He's tried to sign up three times and he can't stand it. Something's wrong. Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u157	Vice-President, thank you for your words and thank you to colleagues and colleagues who have not protested against this decision. I'm not going to be long, so you can come quickly, but I still think that's a topic that's very interesting to our group and our client in particular. Let me add something or make a contribution. I'm gonna start by not talking like Erjavec about a thousand euros. I am immediately in favour of giving all pensioners who have worked for 40 years a thousand 100 euros of pensions, so that those who have worked less are less eligible. I'll be right there. If we can do this, it will be necessary to judge soberly within this hall and, of course, someone else who has dealt with this earlier. I know I'll be measured by people. But I will be measured by the populism that some of you are spreading. You speak inaccuracies, and of course people take it for granted. I'd like to ask you, sometimes certain things need to be looked at, and then I'll tell you the exact data. We all probably know someone who's been working abroad for a while. A lot of our people worked their time abroad. Do you know how they actually have pensions? After all the years they've worked there. And in Austria, which is one of the richest countries in the European Union, it is the same. If you've worked five years, you get five, fifteen for 15 and so on. It's not some idea of our system. Very attentively, I listened very carefully to the discussion of the great colleague Mojce Žnidarič. She was saying everything she was really holding, and she had every honor. Too bad she's not here right now. But I'm not saying that others don't have quality discussions. You do, too, but this time her debate seemed very correct and, of course, also professional. You know, sometimes it's good to learn something. And in such matters, we always take advantage of the possibility of the most responsible people from the pension register, call them and ask them to comment on certain things from a professional point of view. And this is how we did it this time, and we got the exact data. And that's why we signed the amendments made by the coalition. Now you will say, "What kind of opposition are you?Oh, my God! We are a moderate opposition because we want the pensioners well, so we also signed these amendments. Retirement is an economic category with a social flair, I'd say. And this social approach is that we already have this social note in the system, that this is the paid contribution of those who go to work for 40 years or less and pay for pension bills. The pension box should not be a pure social category. For this we have some other instruments and these other instruments individuals can also benefit. Why does the budget have to contribute to the pension fund? And then we say that taxpayers give money. Because in the past, in 1997, if I am not mistaken, it happened because there was enough money for employers to start paying smaller contributions. However, employees put more than 15% in the pension register. It is said that they pay that they can then enjoy the happiness of life, including this pension. Now, perhaps more specifically, as far as 63.5% is concerned. Whoever has a good memory can remember that we, like Desus, then New Slovenia and also the SAB, have individually tabled an amendment to shorten it for a shorter period. This did not happen because then SMC, SD and LMŠ did not support it. In fact, the matter also fell on the parent’s working body. That's too bad. We could have settled this matter by then, but since the coalition contract of the current coalition has written this down, we are also at that time, because we were in the coalition, we have made our contribution, and, thank God, it will now come true. The minimum age pension for 15 years of insurance is currently set at 27% for men and 29.5% for women from the lowest pension base. The starting dose was 26% and in the first year, this was 166,79 euros in 2007, and 260,61 euros in 2021. You can't live with that. This is impossible to survive and, of course, it is necessary to look at another address; it is also necessary to obtain either social assistance or a pension allowance. Some say I don't know how hard it is to get there. That's not true. My colleague Horvat said exactly how long it takes to complete this form, and that based on the decision of the appropriate body, it is also obtained. There's no fillings. Except for that property that's over 130,000 euros worth. With the amendment tabled, we have actually ensured that this matter will be at 29.5%, which will then amount to 279.56 euros. The pension granted for the full pension period was adopted and implemented in 2017 at the proposal of the ZDUS. We know who backed it up then. 1. Ten. 2017 was EUR 500. Today we are talking about a completely different amount – €620 per month. Once again, I would be most pleased that, instead of EUR 620 thousand, there could be 100 euros, but I am aware that the pension register would not be able to do so; and, of course, we must be rational in some way. The average age pension is €722 this year, but if you work 40 years or more, it is €904. Not enough, not enough, but everything has to be within the limits of some kind of normal and frame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u159	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I very much welcome all of you, especially to Secretary of State Matejo Rybič. I'll start with two facts. Pensions in Slovenia are too low and pension amounts are based on contributions paid. I have said many times that the story of the National Assembly is different than that of the media. It is at first sight a very popular amendment of the party Levica, which raises the lowest pensions. I am sure that it is difficult in this country to find any pensioner or any other citizen who would object to this proposal on the first date. It is necessary, however, to know the system of action of the National Assembly, where it is the essence of everything — you give when you are in power; and not when you are in opposition. When you're in the opposition, you don't have scissors or linen in your hands, and you're not as much responsible for your actions as you are when you're in the government or in the coalition; and that's exactly what they know in the opposition. Many times it happens that the opposition is deliberately investing legislation that is likeable and that is precisely known not to be adopted because the budget cannot contain it. The opposition is not even interested in the sustainability of public finances. The object of the opposition is not that the law has been passed, but the aim is to present in public how in the opposition they fight for the pensioners, but in the coalition we are against the rise of minimum pensions, which, hand to heart, will be difficult to present to the public, and in this story you simply cannot win. An example of this could be the opposition's proposal that there should be a minimum net salary of, I don't know, 4 000 euros, a minimum pension, as formerly spoke to colleague Franz Jurš, a thousand 100 and more. Of course, the coalition could not accept this because of its responsibility, and the opposition would quickly accuse it of being ugly, dirty, of fighting against the pensioners and of not being for the people. Is that true? The truth is probably somewhere else. I guess the coalition didn't support this because it's not possible to provide public funding for everything we want. It may have also been directed to other vulnerable groups, projects, problems, not least pensioners, which I will also say below. Unfortunately – and I hope we are all aware of this – the budget is not a bottomless bag, as well as the family budgets do not have a bottomless bag. We can't afford everything at home, even if we wanted to. In a specific case, we are in the coalition against the demolition of pension and disability insurance. Against the demolition of pension and disability insurance. What does the Council of the Department of Disability and Pension Insurance say about this? What do they say about this bill in the Union of Retired Slovenia? The Council of the Institute for Disability and Pension Insurance strongly opposes the amendment of the Left to raise the lowest pensions by almost 200 euros – to 442 euros. I believe it's very difficult to understand how someone can resist raising the lowest pensions. Simply because the pension system is being demolished, the proposal is humiliating for all those who have worked for 30 years or more. The proposal of the Left is to raise the lowest pension from EUR 252 to EUR 442 or EUR 190 for the weak 200. The guaranteed pension for 40 years of work would be raised only for a good EUR 30, from EUR 581 to EUR 613. Pensions are too low in Slovenia. I'm aware a man with 252 euros of pension can't survive. But I am aware that with this amendment, we are doing wrong — to those who have been doing so for 30, 40 years. This proposal of the Left means that you could receive the same pension if you worked 15 or 30 years. What kind of message we give to citizens, I wonder today. Of course, we give them the following message — when you are 15 years old, stop working because you will still receive the same pension as someone who has worked for 30 years or more. If we worked for 40 years, we'd only get 170 euros higher than the one who worked 15 years. The lioness supports the week, and I've known that for a long time. Left message – work for 15 years, then stop working, become poor, and choose the Left. Tell me who will work for 40 years if he can retire after 15 years and get 442 euros. The main message of today’s agenda is – there are no privileges and there is no social transfer, it is the money earned for the work done, which the pensioner earned with the payment of the pension. Someone has been employed for 15 years and it's not fair to get the same pension as someone who's been employed for 30 years. Social policy does not belong to the system of disability and pension insurance; the difference to the threshold of poverty is guaranteed by social assistance, as we have a social state. The difference is aimed at the social cash register, not the pension. In Levica you have come with an impossible solution, which is very difficult for the public to oppose, extremely difficult, with such populist amendments the Left has quite a bad conscience. The charges, first on Desus, then on the others, are against the suspension of pensions; this is only for the public, only for the collection of political points. Apparently, the elections are close, and you're already competing, who's going to promise more, so you can't give anything because you've got nothing. But you had scissors and linen in your hands in 2009. When you were in power in the then Pahor's government, you reduced your pension base from 78% to 57%, which is 21%. This government works and, unlike the previous governments, gives it to pensioners. Today, in the coalition, we have tabled an amendment that rewards those who have worked for 40 years and will receive at least €620 of pensions. In a short one-year mandate, this government allocated an additional EUR 540 million to pensioners, an additional EUR 540 million for pensioners; and I am talking only about 2020 and 2021. You don't have to believe me, ask the pensioners, ask those who receive less than €700 of pension, ask them how much they received in those years during this government. This law also raises the lowest invalidity pensions for 50 euros. Unfortunately for all of this, there was no obedience in previous governments. That's what we did, the government coalition. To refresh the memory, if anyone has forgotten, I will also say that we tabled this same legislation at the same time as the opposition, in the previous government – the government of Marjana Sarca. I probably don't have to explain that the current KUL opposition, which was in power at the time, was against the rise in invalidity pensions. The current KUL opposition is now clear to us that we do not support the pensioners and that they are cared for and heard only by the opposition because we did not support their proposal. I assure you that we will continue our efforts to improve the status of pensioners by doing so. 540 additional million for pensioners in 2020 and in 2021 under this government, an additional 540 million. Certainly not by what you do in the opposition, by sharing some populist content and by investing some kind of legislation when you are in opposition. I wonder why you did not raise invalid pensions in the previous government, why you did not propose in the previous government what is on the agenda today, when you had scissors and linen in your hands and when you were in power. And the same KUL opposition today publishes voting papers on social networks and thus convinces you how they fight for the pensioners; while they were in the government, they voted against the pensioners. We forget it too quickly, and the opposition is taking advantage of it, both of us, if I'm honest. When I was in the opposition, I just didn't understand it, today when we're in the coalition, that's how well I understand it, so it doesn't matter what someone says in the opposition; it's important what they do when they're in power. I don't want to compete with the opposition, who gives more, because if I said, let's give the pensioners a thousand, they'd say, let's give the grand and a half, if I said a thousand and a half, they'd say, let's give it 2,000. And it's out of the question. But I want to act, step by step, to help people who have been forgotten for years and years. No government has so generously helped Slovenian pensioners and pensioners, so I will take some of the measures or legal solutions that we have prepared or adopted last year since 13 March, when this government took an oath, and they have been realized. Last year, regular annual reconciliation of pensions amounting to 3.2%, which means 172 million pensioners. Pensioners with the lowest pensions of up to €700 have been paid a solidarity allowance, the so-called anti-korona allowance, of a total value of €67 million. At the end of June, a regular annual pension allowance totalling 139 million was paid to pensioners. Extraordinary reconciliation of pensions was realized in December, by 2%, which in financial terms amounts to 94 million. All of this happened because we adopted a new law in this government. If we sum up, we can, of course, find that last year there were €471 million for the pension allowance, for the various solidarity allowances and for the harmonisation of payments made. On 11 January this year, a second anti-Korona solidarity allowance was paid to pensioners with a minimum pension totalling around €70 million. And so we get total payments; in addition to last year's regular pension, including this year's January, this sum is about €540 million. For someone a lot, for someone a little, it all depends on whether you're in the opposition or you're in the coalition. And just for the end. Assess political parties by actions when they are in power, not by words when they are in opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Surely pensions are a topic that actually plagues the Slovenian public, even pensioners. If we know that Slovenia is one of the oldest societies to have a rapidly ageing population, this means, of course, that there are increasing numbers of pensioners. However, I must point out that it seems to me that with such actions as the Left, there is a greater sharing of views on what should be in the country and what is the financial situation itself. Surely the nicest thing is, as my colleague Jurša said before me, it is true, it would be right for all to have beautiful, decent pensions; but unfortunately we all know that for various reasons this is not the case. However, under their amendment, of course, I am pleased that the voice of pensioners and senior organisations in this time action was the voice of the Left. It was loud and I hope that we understood their message, which went in the direction of not being able to equal the people who work 15 years and the people who work 30 years because they pay differently, are very active. And here is not going to be equal to just some amendment and say - everyone will get the same. I heard today that no one should be hungry. Indeed, no one should be hungry, so on 1 March 2021 – 10 thousand 49 monetary social assistance, 16 thousand 349 social security supplements, and cash social assistance and social security allowance receive 7 thousand 484 pensioners or persons who need this protection. Monetary social assistance is allocated up to 402 euros and a security allowance of up to a maximum of €591 is added. It is said that someone from €402 to €591 can still apply for a protective allowance. It's not true what you said to make a seal on personal property. This has been resolved in recent years. On this basis, people have easier access to these social corrections, which actually make it possible that no one is really hungry. I would have warned myself about the other side. If it were a serious desire to fix it, we could really fix it two years ago, since we've been talking about it. We had a call from the Labour Committee, and unfortunately, some of the parliamentary groups did not vote that the matter might already be somewhat harmonised, what we are coordinating today. It seems to me that older people really feel the economic consequences of past years, as shown in low pensions. Of course, there are also some moral erosions that we are witnessing today, including the call of the National Assembly; and, of course, also the changed social conditions that it has made in the last year, covid-19, as well as the changing social conditions. All of this actually affects pensioners as well. Therefore, as a society, it seems to me that we must be aware and accustomed to the fact that they are older among us and should also be treated with respect. We cannot promise them every election campaign what will happen if we know in the background what and how much our pension register can do. We need to be aware that they are more — and I am satisfied — mentally, physically active, that they have the right to express their opinions; and that pensions must be provided from state budgets. This is guaranteed by all countries. That a pension is not a right that depends on the individual government, but that it is a right that arises from payments in the active working age. I cannot go past saying that in 2012, when we adopted the pension reform, which we then said would be sustainable only by 2020, but now we still have 2021, that we wanted the pension fund to be cleaned in some way and that the pension would actually come from the right that an individual paid. However, in Slovenia we also have a solidarity system, a solidarity way and, of course, this solidarity method speaks today to guarantee a pension of €620 for 40 years of work. What I think is still to be understood is that the pension system is really one big thing in which various aspects of pensions are linked. I always expose widow's pensions on my own. These too will have to be touched in the future. But I must say, Minister Janez Ciegler the King has done a great deal for the pensioners this year. Not only did we regulate and add 540 million to the pensioners, injustices have also been eliminated — injustices that speak of farmers' pensions 30 years ago. And also arranged the purchase after 2012 and, of course, today's change. I can say that I am proud to be a member of New Slovenia, which has a hearing for the elderly and also for the pensioners. That's what we're going to follow, and that's our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u163	Thank you very much. First of all, I, as a member, and even the leader of the parliamentary group who proposed the law we are discussing today, regretting that we have completely lost focus on what the law has proposed and what the law stipulates. Today we talk more or less about just one more amendment, and then there are these interruptions and accusations, who is more for the pensioners, who does more, who does less, who shows more. I agree, however, with my very populist fellow Member of the Republic of Rebecca, who today tells us that we are populists, that what you do when you're in power counts, and what you're willing to do then. And then, on the one hand, it's obvious that so far it hasn't been done, and on the other hand, it's obvious that you don't support the pensioners, but if we talk about what's done, today you have a law filed by the SAB Group, which deals with the problem that remained unresolved last year, and this is a reduction in the transitional period for the implementation of a different dose percentage. As a matter of fact, the SAB was created in the form it is now in a time of great financial crisis, when our country was in a situation where we were already talking about pensioners, when it seemed that there would be no more money for pensions in three months. At that time, the government was led by John Janša, who answered these dilemmas to have the troika come and make order. In order to make a threefold order, as we have seen in all countries where this has occurred, and in particular this is most clearly visible in Greece, the troika has also reached into pensions, because this is a huge transfer in every country, a significant part of the budgetary burden. And that three was also reducing pensions in these countries. We were then the party that had the President of the Government, then the President of the Government had to take very unpopular measures to get married, and since then our country has seen eight years of continuous economic growth. From then on, until this epidemic or pandemic. And it is only when the country records economic growth when it is doing well that we can talk about increasing pensions and other social transfers. Because when you don't have anything to do with how to go from month to month to cover up that basic stuff, it's hard to talk about anything. History has just applied that way, even though at the time we were saving the finances and the country, as a left-wing party, we had no opportunity to participate in the left-centre government that followed. The SMC Party has decided not to invite us to participate, and if you are not in the government, if you are an opposition, then you cannot do specific things. That was the right thing to say. As an opposition, all you can do is stare and say what needs to be done and correct what the coalition does is comment. But what we did in that period when we were in the opposition, we did a number of program talks, meetings with voters, round tables, field visits and found that regardless of how many pensioners we have in our country, one of the most affected populations in our country is the one where the largest percentage of people are below the poverty line, the population of the elderly, or more specifically the population of the pensioners. $80,000, says the data, some even more, is supposed to be below the poverty threshold. And from then on and until this problem is resolved, caring for the pensioners and the elderly is one of the key priorities of our client; whether or not this seems to anyone. It is unacceptable for someone to work as long as he is told by the law that he must work, to retire at that age, as the law tells him that he must retire, that he should be right; and then he is under the threshold of poverty. And here we fully understand the deviations, such as — people who have only paid for 15 years, or farmers of women who have actually been justified in paying them, because they can even arrange for themselves to pay less if we have food at home, we have animals, we have a garden, and so on. Don't mix it all up over each other. The main problem we are talking about is — people with a full, legally required retirement age, with reached age conditions that do not live well or are even below the poverty threshold. Of course, it is also necessary to save those who cannot live, so we have social transfers, so we have a security allowance and so on. But when we talk about really great injustice, it's a huge injustice for me. And that under what different conditions people in our country have retired. One for the best eight years or what was the minimum, the best, not the most orderly, and 80% of the best years, a few years after that with little luck, because you were born later, completely different conditions, a completely different pension. And for us sitting here or for our children, the question is whether we have a pension or not. And that's what we have to think about when we're competing here and bidding on who's gonna give someone something. But I agree, what's essential is what someone does. We were at the SAB party after we prepared a programme for the next elections and came back to Parliament, and these were the last elections we had as a priority. And we didn't promise everything on average, as some people tell us, but we had very clear requirements. One of them was to correct this injustice with regard to the dose percentage for men in particular, the injustice that would lead to the problem of small pensions for men to continue for many years. We only had two, three pension-related points, but we said we wanted them to come true. And it was at the beginning of the government of Marjana Sarca that we argued when we asked as the only party to enter into a coalition contract with which date we would raise the percentage, that was our programming requirement in our programme, and when this percentage would enter into force. And then we wrote coalition parties — 1. 1. 2019. And then when we started working in the previous government, something soon turned out that it wouldn't be 1. 1. 2019; and we were in a bad mood. Since we are realistic in our demands in the Sab party, we are not populists, we are not proposing a thousand 500 Euros of pension, because we know that this is not possible. We know the budget, we know the state's capabilities, but when we make a deal, we want this to happen. And when the dose percentage, thank God, was accepted, it was not acceptable for us to wait another six years as a transitional period for this to happen. We made an amendment. What else can you do if you don't have a majority? And this amendment, here I agree, has already been said, but at the time, the SMC and LMSH parties, who were in the coalition, did not support it. Not that he obviously didn't cross over from the former opposition. If we're reading something, let's read it with data and really show what someone's done. But we are also in that year at our request, but of course it was necessary for this to be done by all partners in the government of Marjan Šarc, and because, of course, the circumstances were also appropriate, which some things corrected. Here, in particular, I refer to regular and extraordinary coordination of pensions. And as you speak now, the coalition, how much you have increased your pensions, forget to say that only 2020 is yours. The year 2018 and 2019, regulated by another government, is not your fault. And that government raised pensions by almost 8%. When you say back that in the last three years they've been up, either in the last, or in the last, or in the last, or in the last, or the pensioners, they've been up, which you're all together. It's not a problem, because they feel it as a whole. And thank God we're all working for this critical group. But let's be correct. By 8% in 2018 and 2019, your government did not raise pensions, but it did. And this is where we come up with the next problem, at least I feel like a great injustice. We have so many and so many people who have a full retirement age and are below the poverty threshold; then we have a really small percentage of people with very high pensions. Those few lucky people I mentioned earlier, who went under very good conditions to retire — eight of the best years and 80% so on. But when we do this extraordinary and regular coordination, we, as a country, as a National Assembly, as a government, always raise as a percentage. And then whoever already has two thousand euros in pension, and I say there aren't many, can get 20 euros a month, and the one for which we do it to get across the poverty line gets three euros. And he'll never get three, three, three euros. And so we suggested that we study in detail the case of extraordinary and regular coordination. Regular coordination is precisely defined in the law, and we know when it can happen. In the case of extraordinary coordination, we felt that it would be worth trying to harmonise in a fixed amount and move those under the poverty threshold up faster and let the Constitutional Court say whether this is still within the limits of what our pension system is. Ambassador Jurša poetically said that our pension is an economic category with a social inspiration. In principle, he is right, but if we leave a poetic expression and look at what the law says, our law says that our pension system is based on an insurance and solidarity principle. Solidarity must not prevail, I agree, so there are social transfers, but that at least an extraordinary harmonisation in the same amount would mean that correction. And there was a fire in the roof when we suggested it. Now, all of a sudden, it's no longer a problem. All right, we're in. Let's do the best we can. If the situation has changed, if we no longer have a golden rule, if we are suddenly no longer bound to anything, then let us lift up if we can; but now this government and coalition will take responsibility, which we can do. Whoever's in the government, in the coalition, takes that responsibility. And this is where the opposition and the coalition differ. On what someone did, what they could do, and what they should do, I repeat on behalf of the Sab party. We have so far been in the government as a client of the SAB for one good year and then we have done a huge deal. And they were fulfilling their agenda, which was to stress that this problem needed to be solved. In our programme is also this modern public education, which we strive for, effective and accessible public health to all, more things; but I do not allow one to do anything and others to see populism. This is our program and our program we are following and doing well for this group of people. If we return at least a moment ago to the law that we are considering today, this law is simple, this law saves what we have always wanted, it shortens the transitional period for the implementation of a higher percentage for men and also for the correction of women. Although we wanted the transitional period to be one year, we cannot accept such a law for one year with our Members. And if the best compromise is four years, at least we are proud that we have led to this compromise with our law. I thank all those who will vote in favour of the law, and hope for many common good solutions, whenever possible, and whenever circumstances and finances allow us to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he does. I'm asking you to sign up. Matthew the Widow has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. Yes, much has been said about this subject today, and ghosts are certainly fighting in public. Let me begin by saying that I am very much in favour of the amendment, which I myself have been very committed to raising the guaranteed pension to EUR 620. I'll explain why. It is true that we are a social state. It is true that we have some very low pensions, which we then correct through social transfers. It is also true that people who have worked for 40 years have not lived below the poverty threshold for 40 years. However, it is wrong that someone who has worked for 15 years gets more social transfers than someone who has worked for 40 years. This is happening today. The people who have worked for 40 years have a pension of EUR 581 and have a random apartment in Ljubljana worth more than EUR 120 000; and then they are not entitled to a protective allowance. Although the difference of EUR 10 seems irrelevant, there is still a difference. And I ask myself, here I ask myself, is it right to give people a message that it's best to work 15 years, wait until the age of 65 and then take advantage of all social transfers. It is true that we know exactly how the pension is drawn up. It is right that people who come from such or other circumstances on the brink of poverty are entitled to social transfers to live with dignity. However, it is wrong for people who have worked for 40 years to get less than those who have not worked for 15 years and are entitled to all other social transfers. That is why I really welcome the amendment proposal. And there's something else I'd like to point out today. Today we have an excellent case which does not hold that the opposition does not listen to this government, so that opposition amendments to the law are not reviewed. In fact, we have a case that has been very rarely seen in the past that the government has actually taken the law into consideration and completed it together, repaired it and actually accepted it as its own. But it is true, as colleague Masha Kociper said, that the government will take full responsibility for the financial consequences that will come through this. But today we have one sample example that does not hold that the opposition can only speak, speak, speak; but nothing can be done. That's not true. If the opposition has excellent proposals, which are not populist, and are willing to talk and talk to the government and talk to the coalition MPs, to coordinate, it can also achieve certain solutions that can bring about changes to the law. And that's one example. We have one case today, and that's not the only case. We also have cases where we have already brought the opposition amendments into law, fixed them, completed them, and finally adopted them. Yes, in the end, they were usually adopted unanimously. That means they've been given to people. And that's what we need today. This is what we need today in these crisis situations so that the opposition and the coalition can step together and find solutions that will bring good for people, not populism. But not in her discussions, what a client did ten years ago, what she did five years ago, what she did today, and what she did yesterday. I have told millions of times in my debates that they count acts, but actions every day, especially as colleagues have said, acts when we have a chance when we are in power. And if we did not do something about it then, we can talk about it if we did not find a solution then and today we are pursuing great populism. But once again, I can say thank you to Levi today for bringing this thing so far that we started talking about this story at all and raised the guaranteed pensions to EUR 620. This is also the epilogue of the story today, so we can say thank you to Levi, even though the minimum pension is not likely to rise to 400 and several euros. And I'm also wondering, really, these people don't have such pensions, but with a protective supplement today, they can outrun someone who's worked for 40 years. So I ask Levi, does that seem fair to you? It doesn't seem fair to me. People will understand what I'm talking about. If someone has worked for 40 years in Ljubljana for a minimum wage and has secured a guaranteed pension worth EUR 581 and has saved himself in all these years and perhaps managed to buy a small apartment in Ljubljana under the law. And the same person at the other end of Slovenia, for example in Ormož, is entitled to a protective allowance and then together gets €591. This person in Ljubljana is not entitled to this protective allowance because today its property is worth more than EUR 120 000. And that's what I'm talking about: pensions must be higher than those amounts that people get that they haven't worked in 40 years. People who have worked for 40 years deserve something more, at least slightly more than those who have worked 15 years and are 65 years old and receive in the transaction account the pension and other social transfers they are entitled to. And it is right that I will not be misunderstood, it is right to get them, it is right that they can buy food, and it is right that no one is hungry in Slovenia. I therefore welcome these amendments, which will bring good to our people and good to Slovenia. And once again, if we were to step this way together more than once, we would talk more and more often, and we would hear more, we could do the most for our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u167	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Mateja Ribič, colleague and colleague! The amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance will soon require careful consideration, and in particular fundamental changes. We are aware of this almost everyone in this hall, but unfortunately, this matter is a bulwark of every government. From the debate of colleagues and colleagues in the opposition and the party Levica, we see how important today's point is. 20% of the debate on this point of ZPIZ-2I, 80% of everything else, which really saddens me a little bit. The system is not optimal, it is not sustainable, as we have already heard in the past; and in particular many citizens and citizens are hard to survive in a month. These are facts that I fully agree with, but we must be aware that such a system has not grown overnight, and some want to bring it down during the day. This area should be changed with a shaking hand, in my view as the Constitution, because it is the future of all pensioners. The head should be – aiming for a sustainable pension system. I very much oppose the populist and popular proposal of the Left, as it is a serious step towards dismantling the current system of compulsory pension and disability insurance. Why am I saying this? We have recently received three conclusions from the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. I would just like to read the second one: “The Council of the Institute opposes interference with the system of compulsory pension and disability insurance, which means the destruction of the fundamental principles of the system”. These are brutal conclusions that would be of great concern to me, but I understand that these populists are not currently in the hall. The second decision we obtained from the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, signed first by Nežko Ivanetič, reads: “The ZDUS does not support the amendments of the Levica party, so that the lowest pension and the rate increase as a percentage of the pension base, but will be placed on the amount of the minimum short-term cost of living. In the event that such a provision is adopted, the ZDUS will use all legal remedies.” Finally, I will be happy to support all the coalition amendments that propose that those who have worked for 40 years, worked hard and paid contributions receive a pension of at least €620. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The motioner has the floor. Mag. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Chairman. In fact, I would like to hold this debate in some way right now. As I see it, there is no real interest in the debate anymore, but I think it is right that I, as a proposaler, should come forward and take my thoughts away. The objective of today's basic debate is the proposal put forward in the SAB and also obtained consensus by the coalition in order to shorten the transitional period for raising the dose rate for men to 63.5%. The initial period has been envisaged so far for 6 years, we somehow managed to reduce it to 4 years with this agreement, and thus essentially a dose percentage for men to be equal to a dose percentage for women to 63.5%. And it is true, I agree, that there are many open questions, inconsistencies in this pension system. Some also wonder whether he is fair or not about a dose percentage in the past when he was only 84% when, in fact, eight years was taken into account for his pension. Today is a period, if I am not mistaken, of about 25, 28 years, and successive years, so that, in fact, this base, longer than the period taken into account, is lower than the pension. And if this is taken into account by a dose percentage, we can see that these generations that are retiring today are retired under less favourable conditions than those that are ten or twenty years ago. And so there is an anomaly that a teacher who retires today has a lower pension than a teacher who retired, for example, ten years ago with a shorter working age and a lower age. These are, of course, anomalies that will have to be resolved in due course. There will also be a need to save the financing of the pension fund, to make it stable. This is also why the SAB advocates the establishment of a specific demographic fund, demographic reserves where these state funds will accumulate, and does not support a government proposal where the demographic treasury is meant as a treasury financing various liabilities, from long-term care to the construction of a pensioner's home, and essentially assumes that this property created by generations of pensioners during their active lives is sold out in one fast time. We want this property to be properly noble, and also for future pensioners and those who are now active, to be properly noble, thus helping to ensure the financial security of future generations. This is also in the way that this fund is financed additionally by means of water concessions, and perhaps some new benefits, such as a contribution from the sale of wood. There's more than one possibility. We particularly want this cash register to be sustainable. And that is also why we want to ensure social security for such men as women. And this 63.5% dose rate is the minimum that we just think we need to somehow ensure it. And even if it's guaranteed as soon as possible. We know that the Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of the decision on compulsory retirement. This seems very important to us. In this light, it also seems very important to us that this consensus has been reached that we will, in fact, now reduce this transitional period, which is appropriate. But I'd like to look back a little bit. In the SAB party, we will also further advocate that the status of the most vulnerable groups of our population be adequately ensured in the future. Regular coordination, extraordinary coordination of pensions, how to ensure social security, differences between rich and poor – the fact is that if we want the active population to believe in this pension system, we will also have to make this pension system more predictable for the active population. This means that we who are paying today will know what kind of pension we will receive when we retire and when we will retire. That's two very important data. This is, however, a topic that begins one broader debate, as well as obviously a new law. Once again, I would like to say that I also thank everyone for your support for our proposal. And I also wish for future joint cooperation in the well-being of pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the University of Primorska. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. The representative of the proposal is not yet among us, so we are moving on. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report. But you're fast, Mrs. Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's going fast today. Dear Vice President! At its 16th session, on 11 March 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision establishing the University of Primorsk, which was submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and has made some comments to it. Her representative said that, in the proposed decision, the question of determining the study areas was proposed in the same way and thus in the appropriate manner as in the other decisions establishing universities. At the same time, it also drew attention to the provision on the time limit for the harmonisation of the Statute, which was fully respected with the amendment. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supports the proposed amendments, also gave its opinion. The Commission supported the efforts of public universities or higher education institutions to identify an appropriate and effective funding mechanism to enable higher education institutions to develop their study programmes autonomously. In the introduction, the motion for a resolution was presented by the proposer's representative, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The representative of the University of Primorsk welcomed the adoption of the draft decree. He felt that the University of Primorsk had already defined fields of study in its Statute, and therefore he proposed to postpone the formality. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of SDS and SMC to the title of the Final Provision and to the new Article 1.a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. Thus, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended draft decree, which forms an integral part of the report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u172	Thank you very much. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the day-to-day basis, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution on climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted to the assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Diane the Jew. At its 25th meeting, on 10 February 2021, and at the first meeting, on 9 March 2021, the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space as its parent working body considered the motion for a resolution. Since the Committee did not adopt the motion for a resolution after the discussion, consideration of the motion for a resolution was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats, in her name Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the climate and environmental crisis states that the Republic of Slovenia is in a state of climate and environmental crisis, which requires priority action to prevent, mitigate and adapt to climate change. The motion for a resolution follows four climate objectives. First, prevent global warming over 1.5 degrees Celsius. Secondly, in all sectors, greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by at least 55% by 2030 and carbon neutrality will be achieved by 2050 at the latest. Thirdly, the prevention of biodiversity reduction and the implementation of measures to address the climate crisis in a socially fair manner. We Christian Democrats are the first to advocate environmental protection, but not always with new and new resolutions. I have no doubt about the good purpose of the motions for motions for a resolution, but in New Slovenia we are convinced that in the fight against climate change we are not assisted by a resolution that is among legally non-binding acts, and not by a declaration of the climate and environmental crisis. For us, the implementation of commitments already made, such as the Paris Agreement, the Resolution on the National Environment Programme 2020-2030, the National Energy and Climate Plan, is essential. The current Government of the Republic of Slovenia is still well aware of the potential negative impact of climate change and the negative effects on the environment and human health. It is for this reason that it devotes itself to and addresses the levels of the whole government and within all the competent ministries and services. A good example is the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is making a lot of efforts to strengthen public passenger transport, to update rail infrastructure, and to prepare a law to promote the use of renewable energy sources. To this end, and in accordance with the Paris Agreement and the European Union climate policy and legislation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing a long-term climate strategy by which Slovenia will commit itself to speeding up greenhouse gas emissions to achieve zero emissions by 2050 at the latest. The vision of the long-term climate strategy is climate-neutral and climate change-resistant society based on the basis of sustainable development, which will effectively address energy and natural resources while maintaining a high level of competitiveness of the economy. The goal of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, which must pursue environmental protection and is written in capital letters in our programme, is to treat the environment, fertile land, drinking water and animal worlds with respect, and the diversity of species. Protecting the environment, the animals, the natural resources, is our common task, which must first be addressed by each individual. It's our shared responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u175	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members and fellow Members! That environmental problems are increasingly at the centre of attention, many environmental changes prove. The uncertainty and unpredictability of climate conditions calls for additional measures to protect and protect the environment at all levels of society. On the 5th anniversary of the signing of the Paris Agreement, the Secretary-General of the United Nations called on world leaders to declare extraordinary climate conditions in their countries until carbon neutrality is achieved. This call was precisely the reason for the motion for a resolution on the climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the opposition. With a motion for a resolution, the National Assembly would find that the Republic of Slovenia, due to the warming of the atmosphere, the impact of climate change on the environment, the state of biodiversity, the reduction of natural resources, the deterioration of living conditions and the overcapacity of the Earth to self-recovery and self-cleaning in a climate and environmental crisis. With this commitment, the Republic of Slovenia would implement sustainable management, including natural resources, in particular water, air, soil, forests and other natural values. Remember, at the initiative of the SAB party, we have written down the right to safe and clean drinking water in the Constitution, so we are also following with great disapproval the latest amendments to the Water Act. While the government is responding, the motion for a resolution must be considered strategically, with a broad consensus at national and European Union level. The Government's opinion is contradictory in this context, as the content of Slovenia's emerging government climate strategy coincides with the content of the proposed resolution by 2050. It should therefore be noted that the motion for a resolution as an act of political importance does not contain legally binding standards and does not replace strategic documents and areas of legislation. The government's opinion thus suggests only pre-confrontation to any opposition's proposals. The resolution is therefore a political message, a message to all citizens, civil society and the economy that the consequences of climate change need to be managed, as we know we cannot prevent them. Measures that can help all to reduce the impact of climate change are linked to the decarbonisation of many sectors – energy, transport, agriculture – and inseparably linked to the efficient use of energy and the direction towards efficient and sustainable use. We're very aware of that in the SAB. One effective initiative is the initiative of the SAB Party, which has received unanimous support in the National Assembly, with which all pensioners aged 65 and over drive free of charge in cross-border public passenger transport. We have also tabled a proposal for an infrastructure fund law in transport infrastructure in the SAB party with the aim of continuing the implementation of investments in sustainable transport infrastructure. In the SAB party, we therefore understand the resolution as a document supporting the development breakthrough in Slovenia, which will also encourage the creation of the necessary development documents in the future. Allow me to refer to the Government’s document – National Strategy for the Exit from Coal and the Restructuring of Coal Regions in accordance with the principles of a fair transition in the previous week as well. In the SAB, we want all strategies to be implemented and addressed with social, environmental and economic challenges, i.e. the burden of the past. We want to give a clear message that we will not allow the story of Zasavje to repeat in the abandonment of coal mines in the Shaleska Valley. Remember, due to the substantive non-implementation of the law, miners struck in 2013 because they found themselves in a difficult social situation. The situation was solved by the President of the Magi Government. Alenka Bratusek. We therefore inform the people of the Shale region that we will not let anyone fool you in the Sab party, and we will demand strict implementation of the social, economic and environmental recovery of past burdens. In the SAB Group, we are aware of the climate crisis and will continue to actively work towards improving the living conditions of future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go, Ivan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the 25th ordinary meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent working body, the Committee did not adopt the proposed resolution, which was tabled by the Group of Members in order to announce the state's exceptional climate and environmental situation in the Republic of Slovenia, to set the country's climate objectives, measures and organisation against exceptional climate and environmental conditions. On the content, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has already warned that the National Assembly cannot, by means of a resolution, declare exceptional climate and environmental conditions. The resolution is a legally non-binding act. This raises the question of what would actually be achieved by the adoption of the resolution. We all agree that measures must be taken to address the problems of climate change and environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia and also in the European Union. Of course, there is no way to achieve this with a resolution. However, we will achieve all of the following by 2050, which will be adopted this year by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will also be sent to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance. For the period until 2030, the climate strategy will be based on the measures already taken, as defined in the Slovenian National Energy and Climate Plan, on the Slovenian Development Strategy 2030, the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme 2030 and many other documents of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. The government strategy will set vision and long-term targets for the period until 2050. The strategy will also provide guidance for the implementation of the necessary measures and guide future action decisions. This year we will adopt a strategy that will actually enable the objectives of climate change resolution and environmental protection in Slovenia to be met. Nevertheless, all important decisions on climate change and the environment are taken at European Union level. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is actively involved in these solutions. We can conclude from this that it is important to actively solve environmental problems and protect the environment in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not about the prestigious fight that anyone proposes; it is important that we all contribute together to the preservation of environmental protection, both for individuals and for all political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u179	Nice greetings to all present! The motion for a resolution on the declaration of exceptional climate and environmental conditions in the Republic of Slovenia was addressed in the context of a similar initiative last May. Climate change is also found in Slovenia because, among other things, it warms faster than the world average, and affects our health and well-being. It is up to us to shift the focus from understanding the problem to implementing solutions and to take care of the young generation and let them know that we care about them. The Republic of Slovenia has all the so-called key mechanisms for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the European Union's money does not yet achieve its objectives precisely due to a lack of experience and poor organisation. It is a necessary fact that climate change is one of the key challenges facing humanity in the coming decades. Measures, such as carbon dioxide emissions, energy excise duties, motor vehicle taxes, contribution to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, are also too ambitious. The problem also lies in the fact that public finances continue to promote activities that are diametric to climate objectives. According to researchers, Slovenia is successful in the field of energy renovation of buildings in the public sector, at the expense of municipalities, compared to our country, which is lagging behind in the renovation of buildings. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that there is a need to take immediate action and extend the programme to a comprehensive wider renovation of public buildings, which, in addition to energy, includes a static, counter-shocking reconstruction so that we do not have a scenario like in Petrinj. The data on climate trends are very worrying, because if we do not all together reduce emissions, the average temperature will be up to 5 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century. The consequences will be longer heat waves, droughts, captures, floods, to which we have witnessed recently. We are currently lagging behind for the majority of the European Union's countries, as evidenced by the absence of some kind of coherent country policy and the general lack of seriousness in view of the crisis in which we are all involved. Let us wait for the Long-term Climate Strategy of Slovenia by 2050, because we see that the resolution itself is more of a declarational nature. A number of future measures should be at the level of organisations, municipalities, banks, schools and other institutions, as everyone can contribute to long-term changes. We must not place our responsibilities on other stakeholders or look for a sinful goat, but we must always take action. The European Union offers us many financial incentives, as well as investment in the environment and nature of environmentally friendly technologies. It introduces cheaper, cleaner forms of public transport, ensures the decarbonisation of the energy sector and enhances the energy efficiency of buildings. We'll take advantage of that. I'm asking you if anyone's offering us anything. These green targets will be essential for the use of the EU recovery fund following the crown crisis, where EUR 5.2 billion is foreseen for the Republic of Slovenia. The European Union should act to replace cheap fossil fashion from synthetic fibres, which has a catastrophic impact on our environment and also has health consequences. It would be useful for the European Union to draw up new laws, including the textile industry, to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the European Climate Agreement. It is therefore essential to be aware of the importance of better human interaction with nature, which requires sustainable development.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We do not support this motion for a resolution in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we believe that it will not solve any important issue, in particular the issue of the transition to green energy. The transition to green energy must be carefully planned and the measures necessary to achieve the objectives set must be measurable so that we can monitor the results of the measures and react in a timely manner in cases of possible deviations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We're moving on with our positions. Mr Aljaž Kovacič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u183	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Change is the only constant in life and change is also one of the characteristics of climate. Today we are plagued by another fact in this regard, that the rate of climate change in the last century is too fast. Slovenia responds even faster to all these climate changes or our environment is even more sensitive to climate change than to the environment elsewhere in the world. According to the List of Marjan Šarc, this should be a warning sign or a signal that should not be heard or overlooked. It is probably not particularly important to stress that the resolution is an act by which the National Assembly assesses the state of a particular social field, sets out a policy for regulating this area in the future and adopts a national strategy for the future. That is why in the opposition, together with the proposaler, we wanted to adopt a resolution on the climate and environmental crisis in the Republic of Slovenia, because we believe that there is no longer any doubt and mystery today that the climate crisis in the world is that climate change exists and that it is changing our planet. It would therefore be reasonable, if not necessarily necessary, for Slovenia to set some guidelines for future environmental policy. If we want to be responsible, we should respond to climate change by establishing a more responsible environmental policy. And one way is to adopt such a resolution as has been proposed, which speaks of the objectives that our country is supposed to pursue in doing so. It grieves us that there is no listening to the problems and challenges of environmental policy in this coalition. The government and the coalition Members have not endorsed the proposed resolutions. I will not guess why they have made such a decision, but I can only rhetorically ask myself whether the reason was that the largest coalition party to climate change almost does not recognise it, or whether the reason for rejecting our proposal may have been simply that it was an opposition proposal. In any event, it is a matter of concern that the coalition does not once again listen to the professional public, who in one voice practically cries out that such a resolution should be adopted with guidelines on environmental policy and guidance on tackling climate change. Once again, unfortunately, this time too, we have not adopted enough votes to adopt a resolution on the climate and environmental crisis in Slovenia; we can only hope that it will not be too late to introduce a responsible environmental policy in the wake of the coalition members' awareness of the importance of climate change.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u185	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Whether it is now a day and whether it will be six o’clock in the evening, there is no need for the right side to agree with this simple question if the Assembly is to answer with the present state of the spirit. Similarly, the question is whether we are now living in a time of climate and environmental crisis. Of course we do. However, this finding is not currently possible due to the right-hand side of this National Assembly. That's not an ideological question. Believe me, if this were an ideological question, the Vatican State would not be among those entities that recognise the environmental and climate crisis. On 12 December last year, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Antonio Guterres, asked the rest of the world to do so at the symbolic level of the environmental and climate crisis. Because, according to him, the climate and environmental crisis we are in is a crisis that threatens the existence of humanity, a crisis that threatens the existence of habitats and, as such, the most important issue of the future of mankind. At the same time, he asked countries to insist on a point of irresistibility in this definition of the environmental and climate crisis. The Social Democrats, together with their partners, have re- tabled in the procedure to some extent a similar document which has been adopted by the European Parliament. The European Parliament also understood that some things also need to be set out in a declaration and then to prepare and implement the operational programmes that the European Union now wants to implement. Our document speaks of four goals. The two objectives are generally accepted, and this is that by 2050 and later we will do everything we can to avoid warming the atmosphere by more than a degree and a half. If you are reading scientific studies, expert opinions, you will find out why this is so important and why the rise in global temperature is threatening life in this world. The second objective is already widely accepted at European Union level, and Slovenia has also agreed after suffering this to reduce harmful emissions by 55% by 2030 to reach the so-called carbon-free society by 2050. Then there are two other goals that seem to be very disruptive to our right. The third goal is to do everything we can to protect habitats. That we are aware that animal and plant species are dying because of us, and that it is our duty to preserve them. And this resolution does not allow us to say that Natura 2000 is a shot to the knee. And the fourth goal, this goal is quite difficult to talk about in Slovenia. This is the goal of doing everything to ensure that environmental, climate and energy policies are fair so as not to cause so-called energy, environmental or climate poverty. Of course, the adoption of this resolution would have turned Slovenia in a different direction. Understanding this resolution would also allow Slovenia to understand what an investment package worth more than 5 billion, which must be green, but is now green only in its disguise and shame, when others assess and assess it negatively. The adoption of such a resolution would also understand that there would be no question of whether we prevent fracking in Slovenia – harmful production of hydrocarbons. This is still a question in Slovenia. We will also give a special initiative on this subject tomorrow. And understanding this resolution would mean doing everything we know and able to protect our wealth, that is quality drinking water. At the moment, however, Slovenia is not going in the right direction, which has also been demonstrated by the non-voting of this resolution, but there is hope. If not, such a resolution will be voted on in a year and several months. Well, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be moved by Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings to all, colleagues and colleagues! Climate change is a fact and has an impact on our daily life. They're here and they're now. In fact, we have only recently begun to realize that we have lost a great deal of luxury, which we call time; and we must act immediately. The motion for a resolution, which we have already had twice in the last year on our seats, is, in fact, an unfortunate attempt to respond to this challenge with concrete actions and commitments. Why are you unhappy? Since we have already put a lot of effort into coordinating the document by the previous coalition partners, the document is not yet harmonised between us and other strategic documents, where I am aiming in particular at the National Energy and Climate Plan. Unfortunately, we cannot support such a motion for a resolution in the parliamentary group, but we clearly support the view that before the resolution is adopted, a law on Slovenian climate policy must be adopted, which the former Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc has already prepared, and a public debate has also been held. We will not support this resolution in the SMC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u188	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mrs Natasa Sukić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye! A resolution on the climate and environmental crisis should have been adopted long ago. Because Planet B is not or we are not yet there to move to it in time. We have not, and we will not, because it appears that we do not really realize that we are living in a time of global climate and environmental crisis as it has not yet been. Not only are we not aware of this government, but this government of climate change is firmly denying it. For example, today we have addressed the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024. Expressions such as climate crisis, climate change or global warming do not appear in this document once alone. We have a similar problem with the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. There we will spend four times as much money on roads as on public rail infrastructure. That says it all. However, five years ago, the Paris Climate Agreement, signed by 190 countries, was finally adopted and the main objective of which is to limit the rise in global warming to less than two degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial time. This is also the only way to prevent the worst effects of climate change. The European Union and it have committed ourselves to carbon neutrality by 2050. It sounds nice, but the key actions we're going to take by 2030 will be. In Levica, we are constantly reminding ourselves that by 2030 we have to radically reduce greenhouse emissions, otherwise the effects of return loops will become uncontrollable and will result in climate failure, as well as the global economic collapse and the migration crisis of inconceivable dimensions. Since we have a bad time of ten years by 2030, we estimate that Slovenia needs a document, such as a resolution on the declaration of exceptional climate and environmental conditions, bloodyly. In general, because the resolution has set itself the right objectives, among which it would specifically highlight the other. I quote: "The Republic of Slovenia will achieve a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions through measures in all sectors by achieving a reduction of at least 55% by 2030 in relation to 1990 and by 2050 at the latest achieving carbon neutrality." I would like to mention the fourth one, by which we as a country commit ourselves to acting in a socially fair way to get out of an emergency climate and environmental situation, in accordance with the principles of climate justice. But at the end of the day, I'd like to point out the following. Just adopting such resolutions and commitments does not mean anything if we do not take action – and that is immediately. So if we really want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030, then the first logical step would be to prevent the cracking of fossil fuels, after all, is to say natural gas, which contributes significantly to greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. So we got him? We didn't. We will definitely support the resolution in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the motion for a resolution has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 67th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which we will continue with the vote in half an hour, which is at 5:45. (The sitting was suspended at 17.18 and resumed at 17.45.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u191	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I inform you that the National Assembly will carry out the voting in the following order: paragraphs 18, 8, 9, 16 and 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period 2021-2024. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 32. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23 March 2021, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 2(1). The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 4a and 4.b. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Articles 4a and 4b shall become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left to this Article shall become irrelevant under Article 2 and its associated amendment. Mr Reich has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u192	Mr President, I would like to make one general explanation of the vote. In the SAB, we believe that the existing law is better than when amendments to this article are adopted, so we will not support this amendment. At the same time, we support all the changes that go towards the welfare of the pensioners, so we will not oppose the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u194	A month ago, virtually no one in the National Assembly wanted to act in the direction of poverty reduction, not only to talk seriously about the priority increase in the lowest pensions. At the previous reading in Levica, we submitted amendments and selected to raise the lowest pensions to EUR 442 and to raise the lowest full-time pensions to EUR 613, i.e. to the level of short-term and long-term minimum living costs. A lift together would alleviate the poverty currently suffered by 138 000 pensioners and pensioners. But for the third reading, the coalition, under the direction of the government of Janez Janša, has undoubtedly drafted amendments that, in the already-arranged increases in the lowest pensions in order to save the pensioner's poverty, affect the lowest pension of EUR 442 lower by EUR 160 and return to a level below EUR 300. While maintaining full-time pensions, they would still rise relatively in due course, and tying to the long-term cost of living, as proposed in Levica, also means that this is consistent with inflation and thus the pension increases faster. Which still means everything that I have said that we have managed to put the government and coalition in a position to recognise how EUR 246 of the lowest pension is still not acceptable somehow; and here the new bottom is set at EUR 280, says more than ten euros. And secondly, we have also succeeded in arguing that the lowest full-time pensions are too low, but also government or coalition amendments have fixed us here in order to maintain an increase of EUR 613 or even exceed it for a few euros. However, it can be said below that this type of action to address poverty among pensioners is not enough. These elevations are still too low, especially raising these lowest pensions. We will still be able to read stories about how older wives eat from cat cans, how the elderly get rid of themselves, shamed looking at the ground, after packages of the Red Cross, are convinced that they are themselves guilty of the poverty that has plagued society or, if you wish, political guilt. Among the 58,000 recipients who could benefit from the lowest pensions of 442 euros, we find disabled, elderly single women, including farmers. All of these are subject to an amendment of € 160. We will vote against it. We'll proceed immediately tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 2(1) was adopted, the amendment of the Left Group to this Article became irrelevant. This has also made it irrelevant to the amendment of the Left Group to Article 4a and Article 4b, since all the three amendments of the Left Group are interconnected. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI and Desus to Article 4a to Article 1. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 4b under Article 2. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second or third reading would make the proposal inconsistent. My colleague, Rajh, has an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u196	Thank you very much. With this law and these changes in the SAB side, we are pursuing our electoral agenda and our promises. And on our initiative, in the past, the women's dose rate has risen to 63.5%, and now, with this change of law, to which we have obtained the consent of the coalitions, we have reduced the transitional period for raising the dose percentage for men from six years to four years. We have initially proposed three years of our own, but in fact one reality, one compromise has reached four years. In the SAB party, we thank everyone who supported our proposal for the welfare of the pensioners. Thank you very much again, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-03-23-SDZ8-Izredna-67.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk. Since no amendments to the amended decision were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers, Ministers and Acting Secretary-General of the Government of 23 March 2021, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to the parliamentary question of the victory of Jelinčič Trimenite concerning vaccines. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 4 votes against 54. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to Tina Heferle's question on the appointment of prosecutors. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 44. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of Mr Edvard Paulič on the analysis of the closure of individual activities. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question of Mr Nataša Sukič on the strategy and organisation of vaccination against covid-19. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andreja Širclja to the question of the situation in the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Mr Andrej Širclja asked Maša Kociper about the extension of the measure to defer payment of the obligations under the credit agreements concluded. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of the question of employment closure in problem areas. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to Violet Tomić's question on the illegal exploitation of women. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to Mark Bandelli's question on the mandatory test measure for covid-19 for two-owner farmers. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of the delegation of Lidija Dijak Mirnik concerning the elimination of the consequences of distance learning relating to the increase in obesity and the 13% decline in the mobility of children. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pozvalska to the question of mag. Meire Hot with regard to the consequences of limiting economic activities in the traditional tourist regions. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Restovalska to the question of the mission of Janija Ivanuše concerning Safilo Ormož. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question by Primož Siter concerning the teaching of solfeggia and the teaching of music and teaching in dance and ballet music schools. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Mr Andrej Širclja and the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Kortnik, took up the question of Soniboj Knezak on the proposal for a law on demobilization. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Mr Andrej Visiak and Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec on the question of Ms. Andrej Reich in connection with the closure of Velenje and Teš coal mines. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik, to the question of mags. Bojane Muršič in relation to the public sector payment system. We're voting. There are 83 Members present, 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the question of the delegation of Luke Mesca concerning the financing of the Slovenian film. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Acting Secretary-General of the Government of Mag. Janje Garvas Hočevar on the question of Vojko Starović on the suspension of the financing of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of the question of Mr Matjaž Germany, concerning the planning of the rail link between freight and passenger transport between Gorica and Novo Gorica and the railway connection Ajdovščina–Postojna. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak asked the question of Bosniak Koražija regarding the pollution of groundwater and drinking water in the Dravski, Murska and Savina Valley, in particular in the light of the proposed novel of the Water Act. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš, on the latest developments around the lower part of the mountain railway. We're voting. 82 Members attended, 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovich asked Tina Heferle about the appointment of prosecutors. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Počvalska and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of Bosniak Koražija regarding the dismissal of workers and workers in the company Safilo in Ormož and increasing unemployment in Lower Podrav. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity of Janez Cigler King to the question of Mr Lenart's mission regarding the staffing plan in the homes for older citizens. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja, on the question of the mission, Primož Siter, regarding the public finances of the establishment of the demographic fund and the introduction of the social cap. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to Violet Tomić's question on the promotion of culture during the Presidency of the European Union. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of Mr Nataša Sukič, on the projected changes in the tax treatment of self-employed people in culture. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that this decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 67th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. (The sitting was suspended 23.) MARCH 2021 AT 18.12.)
