ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Franc Jurša, Alexander Reberšek, Robert Polnar from 10 a.m. to 13 p.m., Marko Bandelli, Predrag Baković until 13 p.m., Franz Trček until 11 a.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko from 10 a.m. to 14 p.m., Nada Brinovšek from 10 a.m. to 14 p.m. and Carmen Furman from 10 a.m. to 14 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 24. At the time of the day, it is for the defence of the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport of Dr. Simone Kustec. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. In order to further explain the interpretation, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer, Dr Mate T. Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good day to you all! Dear Minister! Today's interpolation is basically, even if the Minister or Minister for Education is interpelled, the debate on the subject, the area covered by the Minister. So today's debate on this interpretation must also be a debate on education. For the starting point of what education is or what education should be. I would like to point out in particular three functions which I believe should be carried out by the school. The first is basic and is educational or socialisational. It is said that primary school must be educated and, above all, must be educated. Too often, however, we forget a third function, which, according to our assessment, has as much an important role in the school field as the first two, and this is social. The school is also a basic equalizer of differences, a place where, regardless of personal circumstances or personal background, each student as a member can act under the same conditions as a representative of a wider class or school community, at least on paper or so. Why am I listing these educational functions? Because these are key functions that enable social advancement, they also allow for at least approximately comparable outcomes at the end of school, regardless of their situation. Therefore, the school is one of the areas which the State should pay particular attention to in May and, of course, take care of this area in any case, in any event. What does this have to do with interpolation? The perceptions we have cited in the interpretation of these points, which we accuse the Minister of failing to meet the specific expectations and responsibilities he has, speak precisely of ignoring this area at the time and due to the epidemic. The key are three points, and as you all know, it's a second interpolation. The repeated repetition of the same errors in two interpolations suggests that there is some systematic neglect of the area. The first is neglecting any appropriate preparations for the start of the school year. We have seen this twice, both in the previous school year and in the school year. Some colleagues here smile when we say something, but remember all the responses of the administrators, teachers, parents of children who were practically a few weeks before the start of the school year in the complete theme of how it will start, what models will teach them and so on. I'm not making this up, look at the statements made by the principals, look at the statements made by the teachers, and I think it's going to be much more understandable. The second problem, which has been repeated practically since the beginning of the mandate of Minister Kustec, is an underestimating and exclusive attitude towards all stakeholders in this area. This is related to the first point, what I have just described – any absence in the first place of readiness and in the second kind of ability to listen to those who are involved in the school field, in the first place teachers and administrators, shows that it is some total ignorance of this and a lack of obedience to people who will have to carry out the school process and also carry out the measures associated with it during the epidemic. This is also said to say that before the start of self-testing in schools, which is a meaningful measure, at a meeting where 800 school representatives were present, there was a small revolt and, I think, most of these people attending the meeting left because they had not come anywhere. However, the third problem is the absence of any solutions to the epidemic or to the single wave of the epidemic. We still do not have concrete measures to address the consequences of the epidemic in schools, nor do we have concrete studies, analyses of how this should be done. We are talking about the fact that we have had more than a year and a half of an epidemic for ourselves, since March last year and to date the Ministry has not been able to prepare appropriate analyses, appropriate measures to address the consequences that have occurred in this or other way. It has gone so far as to propose budget amendments to the opposition in order to devote some resources to at least starting to do so. These three things tell us about one thing, and this is the problem of some method that is systematic, as I've already said. If we only remember between the circuits, this has happened over and over again. One of the causes of this confusion is the decisions that are made overnight. This is, of course, the government's responsibility in the first place, but also the responsibility of any individual minister who does not hope or wants to raise his voice and defend his department. As has been said, the confusion with the circuits was for the first day of school, and the confusion with the circulars was also for the introduction of mandatory self-testing. I'm a primary school parent and we've been in, I think, three, four days from school three or four different instructions. I think you can imagine plastically how confusion can occur and the pressures on both the school side and on the other side of the parents. I think that in a different way, with a different way of operating, these situations could be prevented and self-testing could be started even better and even more easily and without motorists in front of primary schools. Another issue is the complaints of teachers, administrators, employees and others involved in the school field. All these comments coming, all the criticisms by the principals, teachers, including representatives of the teaching profession, talk about something, and it's incompetence. The inability, as I have already said, to plan properly, especially the inability to communicate, accept compromises and find solutions together with those involved in this school field. In response to this interpolation, you have some letters of support and some press articles, which are more or less related to the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation, the law that has been waiting for a decade to be passed, and whose users, if I call them, have already waited so desperately for adoption, that they have, of course, supported this law, which is not even bad at all, but when we look at the field of primary education, when we look at the students and so on, I think the picture is quite different. Representatives of directors, representatives of teachers speak of the worst minister or minister in this ministry since we have Slovenia on our own. What is even more worrying is what was happening while these delays occurred, these communication errors. In the summer, before we all knew that the new school year would begin with a new wave of epidemics, the Minister in Tokyo was at the Olympic Games, and she was abroad again before the start of the school solo test. A meeting with 800 school principals and representatives was chaired by State secretaries. I think these moments are talking about how much attention – several times I have said in public – how much the minister is willing to give to her department. Finally, there may be one other thing that I think will be important in today's debate about the interpolation material, where the whole bunch is, as said, and the tables, how many meetings were held at the Ministry with different stakeholders. Here I would like to point out that the amount of meetings does not mean their quality. I think that the effects of these meetings can all be seen, especially in the disappointment of those involved in schools. Among these materials is an interesting one-sided document, and this is a photocopy of the canvas, although it is a very remarkable book by Mary Beard Women and the authorities, which I think is triggering a particular defence strategy. This book is some manifesto talking about how modern societies try to exclude women from power in every way, to exclude women from the public field. I recommend it to everyone to read; it is a very valuable contribution to the role of women in modern society. I think the Minister will use this book to try to show that the interpretations we have put against her in the opposition are essentially the product of some misoginy, some anger or some hatred of her as women, which, of course, I reject most strongly in the base and origin. One of the main points of this book, one of the main motives of this book, is how from Antique further west civilizations try to silence the voice of women in public. The main case is the author’s example of Telemah, who silenced his mother Penelope when she wanted to speak publicly. I would like to stress here, Minister, that in the opposition we do not want you to be heard to silence you. On the contrary, we would like to speak to you once again, to be heard and to take a public stand in particular for those involved in the school field. That's your main mistake, your main sin, if I may put it that way. That in your field, you don't do what you should do in your department. You did not stand up at the time of the first closing-up of schools to close schools as soon as possible, while everything remained open and we closed schools first, there was no hearing your voice and your positioning within the government to make this happen as soon as possible. The decision we are proposing is that the Minister is resolved, based on, I emphasise, a constant, continuous, systematic repetition of one and the same mistakes. We have to ask ourselves if these are even mistakes. A man who doesn't want to listen, who doesn't want to understand, who doesn't want to talk and compromise with the system that he should manage or with whom he should be involved, can't be a guardian, can't be responsible for this system and should leave his post. With our conclusion, we propose that Minister Simono Kustec be relieved of her position as Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the interpretation, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Koprivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! In opening, I would like to say that I would particularly like to welcome the Secretary of State in the cabinet of Prime Minister Janez Janša, who is actually in charge of decision-making and signing matters in the field of education, science and sport. I'm talking about Mr. Marian Dolinsky. Unfortunately, I don't see him here today. In fact, it would make sense for us to have a number of questions and dilemmas answered by a person who is actually associated with decisions at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport or at least authorized to sign instead of Simone Kustec under Janez Janša's decisions. It is true that the ruling majority in this National Assembly appointed Mrs Kustec as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, but after almost two years of its meeting the situation has long been clear that this has obviously been done only for protocol, polite or other reasons. In fact, it is most likely that Mrs Kustec was appointed to provide support within the SMC, which, at the time of joining the government, betrayed citizens and citizens who unfortunately inherited the clear promises of dignity and integrity of the supposed liberal party. What I am saying is, I am aware of this, it sounds very bizarre and grotesque, but the truth that we need to talk about today is tragic, fatal, critical and unacceptable for the future of Slovenia and its children. In the last two years, people sitting behind me or sitting behind me have led Slovenia to the point where, due to the failure to act, to act wrongly, to incompetence or to the complete absence of leading the tragically deceased 5,000 people. When, for the same reasons, the third generation of children has not yet had a normal school year. For the same reasons that have led to the extreme mistrust of citizens and citizens in power and all its systems, we read reports of police presence in front of primary schools at the beginning of each school day. With horror, we are accompanied by the fact that during the third school year of the epidemic we still do not have regulated ventilation, children with a child-friendly testing system, physical safeguards to provide live learning. When we have been reiterating for the third year that the government is making decisions today, the instructions on how to take them out will come. They'll be in two, three days, maybe four days. Maybe accurate, maybe blurry. But maybe they won't, and that's what's happened. Respected and respected, we face daily crackdowns of corruption, a flood of scandals, which in some different, decent and fair times would take any government back to life. But respectable and respected, now, at the time of the reign of the Jancism, which you allow the upright liberals and honest Christian Democrats, who turn away like Pedenjped, you cover your eyes with your hands and say to yourself, “There is nothing”, you hear nothing and you see nothing, people die, children lose knowledge, games, friendships and childhood. Without a legal basis, you rule by decrees when it is necessary to perform cleaning at the police station, and by hand, contrary to the profession and the sharp opposition of both police unions, you are changing the laws and standards that have so far protected the police from political interference and influence. Why is that important? Because all of this is accompanied by Mrs Kustec, formally appointed Minister of Education, Science and Sport, who has long played his role in the same way as the Czech-Slovak quizzing Emanuel Moravec, who, for his own comfort and a few crowns of higher pay, betrayed his people and closed the universities at the request of the Nazi occupier and prevented the rebellion of power, which was corrupt and evil, until its bitter end. If, honourable Members, you do not know what I am talking about, see again the excellent film interpretation presented by public RTV. As long as it's possible, of course. Until you've been drunk with the power to take critical films and free-thinking books away from us, as well as with fire and petrol fumes, this is already done by patriots in Poland and elsewhere where anti-intellectual and iliber darks rule with a strong hand. Just like Janez Janša, head of Simone Kustec, who would have had to give up and overcome some dignity long ago because she did not want to, knew or could protect Slovenian education, science and sport from the incompetence and corruption of one and only coalition master, who has been destroying and destroying Slovenia for almost two years. Dear Simona Kustec is a tragic figure who, through its formal silence, destroys the future of Slovenian children. However, if for a moment we are imagining that she is actually doing the duties of a minister, let me say why, if she is actually deciding on anything other than where and how and for how long she will travel abroad, she should withdraw why, if there is any more dignity and justice, she should be able to resolve this national assembly. When, for the first time in the democratic opposition last February, we introduced the first interpretation of Professor Simone Kustec's work and responsibility, we said in explanation that the Minister's office was unable to perform and does not perform it. We argued that essentially Slovenia does not have a Minister for Education, Science and Sport. At that time, fellow Members, you did not listen and did not vote in favour of Simone Kustec's unnecessary discharge from a ministerial post that he obviously did not grow up with. And when Simona Kustec was lost in space this summer, or almost days before the start of the school year, when there was nowhere to be seen before the start of the school year, we had no choice but to re-interpret another intervention against a minister who is not a match and does not perform his tasks. Why? For causing confusion and hardship. Due to poor and inadequate preparation for this year's school year. Because after more than a year and a half of this covid situation Simona Kustec is still looking for answers to basic questions. Because the rules and methods of teaching are still changing almost from day to day. Because the minister is almost completely ignoring all practices, led by the school union, in preparation for this year’s school year. They're begging for dialogue, but they're constantly ignoring it. Do you know how many employees in education and education have signed a petition for her resignation? More than 17,000, with names and surnames. These are employees who experience calvaries, pressures and threats from all sides daily. We are convinced that the Minister is leading an inadequate and harmful policy in almost all areas of the Ministry's work, starting with the situation in primary education, where we are witnessing a lack of will, illogicality and poor preparation of rules for the implementation of epidemiological measures. The last example of this is the introduction of self-testing of students and students in schools. They were waiting until the last, and you were even late with instructions that were extremely flawed, and you placed all responsibility on the schools. Thanks only to the quality of the staff, teachers and teachers, he was successful, and thank you very much to all school workers. Why didn't you have a dialogue with the school representatives? These people actually have to implement your actions in practice every day, so they are the most competent to say how best to do this. But no, you, Simona Kustec, don't ask them. You're hiding from them. In common sense, this cannot be explained. When you complete decrees and circulars from day to day, from hour to hour, you do not contribute to managing the situation in schools, but create total chaos. All the burdens of your conduct are borne by schools, children, and parents. At the same time, we are all aware that the current situation in Slovenia is difficult due to the epidemic. In the SD, we also call on everyone to be vaccinated and tested all the time, but people need to be explained why and how certain measures are being introduced, not that people in the school system cannot understand your ideas at the moment. And here the ministry should carry out its task to keep the school safe, a peaceful place of development and, above all, to remain open. We need to protect school space from politics by listening to the teaching profession, by listening to those who work with children every day and have the most knowledge and experience. I'm afraid that's not what the minister was doing. The epidemic breaks on the backs of schoolchildren and schoolchildren. They bear the burden of the inadequacy of the system, the pressure of their parents and the influence of public cregaries. Seven-, ten-, fifteen-year-olds will be carrying the consequences of this period their whole lives. You, Simona Kustec, should be their ally. A guarantee of reason and security. But you definitely didn't. You're not. Of course, that's not the only thing that gives us a headache. Simona Kustec has allowed the novel Foreigners Act to prevent many young people from studying in Slovenia throughout the region. Where does the most missing personnel come from? And you are closing the door to future doctors, nurses, engineers and engineers who would perfectly adopt Slovenian and be able to contribute to the development of Slovenia. It's completely unreasonable. He is still late with the help of athletes and athletes and sports organisations. There were also no instructions for monitoring infections and referrals to quarantine in the case of higher education. These have only been prepared in response to newspaper writing. Obviously, however, there was enough time to establish a new university written on the skin to be determined. Your determination, however, was rejected by the Constitutional Court when you wanted to help through the University of Jambrek through the PKP. Dearly respected and respected, Minister Kustec should be the first defender of children, schoolchildren and all stakeholders in the school area, as well as an advocate of the Constitution and the laws of certain rights. Instead, we have a minister who is primarily an extension of the deadline of the President of the Government and his anti-democratic aspirations. The exclusion, underestimating and ignoring attitude towards professions, school unions and civil society and the inability to coordinate epidemiological measures in the education and education system continues. All of this comes at the cost of breaking up the system, living over children, desperate parents, and well-established schoolchildren. Three words could describe three key features of the Minister's rule and of course the entire government – chaos, conflict and corruption. These are the characteristics of your action. And when the minister faces the consequences of her actions or, rather, of events, she makes either a naive sacrifice or a no-thought-seeing tragic figure in a burlesque titled Third Janša government. If we had a spine and a handful of self-respect, we'd have stepped down a long time ago. Well, maybe there's a reason that you're not, that the time for new concessions in higher education, because you may have found that you'll find it very difficult to look your students and your colleagues at the Faculty of Social Sciences, once these nightmares with the name of the third Janš government are over, because it's clear to you that you've fed up everything that's gone wrong. With regard to the adoption of concessions yesterday at the government, we have asked the Commission to prevent corruption to review corruption risks. In fact, it is clear from space that these are tenders written on the skin of colleges near the largest government party SDS. Or perhaps, Madam Minister, you have decided that in a time of global pandemic and a number of emerging societal challenges, from digitisation to green transition, without any reasonable justification, you have called for a new research programme in the field of theology, because you and this government can really only be helped by God. Ladies and gentlemen, in normal democracy, Mrs Kustec would have resigned herself long ago. In mature parliamentary democracy, it would be self-evident that the interpretations would not have survived in the first place, but in the second place. But no, in the reality of the Janša regime, which we are currently living in Slovenia, we will only ask ourselves at the vote tonight, and then we will see who Janša and the fellows shot their eggs to death. What a terrible blindness man is!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. You received the reply of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport to the interpolation on 7 October 2021. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec, to explain the written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Today, there is a coronavirus between us, this moment, more than ever. Forty-five thousand 440 of you are sick right now because of the Coronavirus. A little over 32 thousand of you are now in our educational space due to infections of your peers in quarantine. I've never seen so many kids before. Currently, among PCR confirmed infections, the proportion of infected primary schoolchildren is highest among all age groups. This Wednesday, for example, the proportion of daily confirmed cases in the age group from five to 14 years was 21.8% of all confirmed cases on that day. Here in this graph, on your far right you see what's going on. At the beginning of September, this share was 10%. Following the first two days of compulsory self-testing in schools, around 300 positive cases were detected in this way and a number of quarantines were prevented because of this measure. In such a situation, here [[Showing the Congregation]] are the situations that point to the proportion of infected employees or the proportion of quarantines, you see how much it also increases as a result of the previous schedule, and the proportion of employees who, as a result of the measures before that time, are much lower than the share we faced at the time of the first closure. In such situations, since the first day of our government's mandate, together with over 700 members of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, our public institutions, headed by the Education Institute, as well as the field inspection services, we introduce and implement measures of safe educational, research and sport activities in our country for the health of all those involved. Measures that change in view of the intensity of the virus in society and the effectiveness of the pest control, as well as the effectiveness of respect for those measures in society as such. Measures that are introduced and implemented all over the world under such criteria. Measures that are also changing due to scientific knowledge that enable more and more successful co-existence, but unfortunately not to calm down and eliminate the virus. The measures taken and implemented by most of each company, which are most apparent today through different high levels of grafting and thus the quality of safe interaction with it across countries around the world. Measures to protect people's health and lives, which in the world of politics, instead of elections, provide an opportunity for some opposition structures in some countries to fight for power. The fight against the virus is also responsible and sincere in the world of politics, which is aimed at the success of its intervention for tomorrow, not for yesterday. These are the faces and reflections of concrete activities, measures that can be measured, shown on them by concrete, verifiable and verifiable data. Today, almost three months later, at the initiative of the opposition's 15-hour work, we will discuss activities that marked the start of the school year, when they think everything went wrong, when nothing was prepared, when none of the more than 700 employees in the ministry, its public institutions, led by the Education Institute, did anything and therefore there was chaos. Similarly, the real part of the opposition also happened in the field of higher education and science and sport. The truth, supported by facts that can be proved at any time, speaks the opposite. A series of such facts are available in the substantive reply and the annexes to the interpolation. An additional set of facts is also before you in the form of a presentation, which I will now show you and from which it is clear that in the education, science and sport sector we recognize the period of time as a responsibility for strengthening and developing these for a small society of fundamental areas where we can be globally comparable, successful and leading. What the Council of the European Union, and also the wider recognition of countries around the world, as well as other large Member States of the European Union, recognise to us at the time of our Presidency. What we presented, talked about and focused also on the Olympic Games in Tokyo, including at the General Assembly of UNESCO in Paris, and what you forgot to say, we have been doing for half a year in Brussels, where I am leaving again next week, so that you will not be upset about where I am. What, then, do facts and information show us? I have selected some for the opening presentation and many more for the debate itself, if necessary. First, let us look at some facts about how we respond directly to the covid situation. Here [[Showing the Congregation]] are the statistics of inspections, and before that you have had a list of publications, conclusions, specific meetings and forms of these meetings we can continue to discuss. First of all, I would like to show you concrete measures that are directly linked to the cod response and response period. From these, you will see that there is an extremely large number of different areas and content to which we have responded and are responding, including with very high financial support. I also propose that we look from item to item, from example to example, at the course of the debate itself, what and how. Among other things, with regard to protective equipment for air-cleaning devices, I see that you have been extremely concerned for several months now, about mental health care, about the means for activities that are important for maintaining and strengthening mental health. I've even compared them a little bit with past times, so you can get a sense of what's going on in this area. In addition to other material related to the mental health of children and care for them. Here we have one graph showing the comparability of the learning achievements achieved in very difficult conditions of education during covid's time compared to previous years. Here you have information showing how much we have gone against the need to establish new secondary programmes so that young people can listen to the content they need. This top column is the column of the school year 2020/2021, when I signed almost 200 new programmes, which some secondary schools have been unsuccessfully awaiting for many years. Here is a table from which you can see how and what interest there is in enrolment in higher education programmes, from which you also follow needs that are also of great interest to you, and what level of education students achieve in each study year during the ten-year period. Then the first students enrolled in the first year from third countries, so foreigners who also care about you. The last two columns are the pillars of our mandate and are both the highest in comparison with previous years. And now the budget, the finances. This is the trend of all Ministry of Education, Science and Sport funds in the last decade. We have reached it, as you can see, in the last two years at a historically high level, for each level, for preschool, school, primary, secondary, vocational, higher education, science and sport. I also propose that we do not waste time now and that we can also focus on this further. Co-financing of investments in educational institutions, assistance to municipalities so that they can build or rebuild kindergartens, schools, sports facilities. After 10 years we activated it throughout the country, these are colored spaces where investment works are done in kindergartens and schools. This index is the average gross salary of employees in our department, which also indicates that the dry years, the worst-paid years, were obviously less favourable for the left-centre governments. Here is the support we provide for the education of employees so that they can make progress. Finally, in both cases, the Law on the Treatment of Children and Adolescents with Emotional and Behavioral Problems and Disorders in Education and Education was passed by the constitutional majority, and yesterday, thank you very much, the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation. After failure of six years of experimentation, the Constitutional Court decision on the financing of private primary schools was successfully implemented in this mandate. With the new Kindergarten Act, other children and all other children in the family have free kindergarten again. Dear Members and Members, the truth, based on facts, is clear in the fields of education and education, science and sport. First time. The health of society is understood as the first priority of the knowledge society. And a second time. We control the period and perceive it as an opportunity for further development and the necessary changes that will be adapted to the times and needs of our children and young people. But for the end, it is a very short but decisive personal commitment, since, according to everything that has been said and shown by the work of the left opposition, this will certainly mark today's debate. Politics has nothing to look for in schools. School is not and must not be a place of political struggle on the shoulders of our children and knowledge. On the basis of all the above, I reject all the evidence of interpretation, and I also reject it on the basis of the fact that the criticisms of my work by the part of the left opposition are based on mechanisms to silence a woman, not take her seriously, to humiliate her with insults, when or if you are not on their right side, especially when it comes to a woman in politics. [[applause in the hall]] To this kind of humiliating, manipulation and lies of a perverted relationship and discourse, and I will have zero tolerance. Ladies, when you're not on the right side, you'll know you'll be stained like this here. My future activities will be the same as before, in the interests of children and young people, employees, kindergarten and school systems, science and sport, time, virus and interpretation despite. Thank you very much. [[applause in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Please! Procedural proposal by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, I am in the process of addressing you, and I must admit that I have a serious problem. I'm the one who prepared for the interview with the Minister of Education and Four. As the janchoologist becomes president of the Commission, the intentional weakening of public education, the statement by Mrs Jane Javornik, the study concessions for friends, the regional votes – I have now listened to two thirds, I do not know if this is the intervention of the Minister of Health. That's the first one. Give me an answer. Second. Under Article 110 of the Constitution, the Government is in charge. I'm not here for one relatively bad FDV lecture where my teacher will tell me, but maybe we'll discuss it later. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u9	Comrade Duck, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u10	Third. The lady has been the leader of the largest parliamentary group in the history of Parliamentarianism of the left-wing government for four years. And fourthly, the school's field is the heart of ideology by Altizer. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u11	Comrade Duck, this is an abuse of the procedural proposal. This is an abuse of a procedural proposal!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u12	No, no abuse! What kind of interpretation am I at? What kind of interpretation am I on? And you must protect the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u13	No, buddy Duck. My friend Runk!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u14	My friend Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u15	You fall into the expositions you are now, and I'll give you a reminder. That's the first thing. You know exactly what the procedural proposal is about. The Minister has the right to say, explain her response to the interpolation and [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait a minute, don't give me that word, 'cause I'm going to give you a warning. And the first thing we have to stick to is democracy, democracy and the ability to listen to each other. As President, I do not have any right and also other vice-presidents, vice-presidents, to fall into the floor of the speaker and to moderate him in how to speak. What you expect from me. The Minister's response was entirely in line with current practice and we have nothing to report to him. If you are thinking of taking procedural proposals in this direction, that we are now delaying you to express your disagreement with what the Minister has said, then I suggest that you wait until the time comes for the presentation of the views of the Members and Members of Parliament, and that you be able to say everything you do not agree on. Not to abuse a procedural proposal for what the procedural proposal is not intended to do. Procedural proposal by Violet Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u16	If we do not move away from the content of the interpretation, I would just like to warn you that as a Member, I have not received a single, single reply to the points. Under point 2 of the Interpellation, we refer to an underestimated, exclusionary and ignorant attitude towards the professional and interested public, school unions and civil society, and to the inability to coordinate epidemiological measures in the education and education system. This same underestimating, exclusionary relationship has now been experienced here in the face of the frantic applause of the coalition MPs. This speech was as if it were written by John Janša himself. And based on the result, it looks like he was actually writing it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u17	My colleague Tomić, this is not a procedural proposal either.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you. That's what I was gonna say. And she does act like she's the Minister of Health, not the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u19	Please! This is not a procedural proposal either, you will say all of this in your debate [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You'll say anything, you'll say you're not satisfied and you'll vote for the interpolation. So please do not delay this interpretation with unnecessary, but in particular with procedural proposals which are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Procedural proposal by colleague Franc Trček. If it's not in accordance with the rules of procedure, I'll have to give you a reminder. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u20	Dear President! A regular professor of political science here said we were on the wrong side. That's when you should have called. There's no side here. There's an ellipse. If anyone knows, she knows and you need to protect the National Assembly. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u21	Comrade Duck, I'm not going to give you a reminder yet. As far as the evidence is concerned, who is on the wrong side, I think that this is an entirely legitimate part of the discussions or views presented in the National Assembly. You too are reading the other side that it is wrong or that one of the Members is on the wrong side. So it's really not something I should have intervened in. Colleague Hefferle, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u22	I have a procedural proposal for you, Mr. President. If you have taken the view that Mrs Minister's opening remarks have been in line with parliamentary practice, namely, let us say yes, I agree with you that the Minister has gone very widely, and my procedural proposal is a very serious appeal to you, as President of the National Assembly, to ensure that all Members are treated in the same way as has now been treated by the Minister. Why am I saying this? Because in the past two or three days it has been possible for some Members, during your time, my leadership and the conduct of my colleague Simonovic, to have a wider opportunity in accordance with parliamentary practice on certain points allowing this to happen. When the leadership took over my colleague Tanko, the Members, who had come in turn by accident at that time, received reminders and took the words away and so on. My appeal today, given that it is a very important topic, is to interpellement and manifest at the work of Madam Minister, that, in accordance with the powers that I believe you have in view of the President's cabinet setting the order of meetings, if you find that there is an abuse of leadership, or if you find that there are unequal vats in the debates of individual Members at the time, let us be honest, the conduct of one and the same Vice-President, make sure that this is interrupted. You have multiple mechanisms, you can take the lead yourself, you can order him to lead one of the other vice presidents. But my appeal today is due mainly to the experience of yesterday and the day before yesterday, when these vats in the debates were not the same for everyone. Here I also appeal to my coalition colleagues to be correct. Finally, at the time of my leadership, colleagues from the coalition or from the SDS party asked me if I could allow a slightly broader debate, but I left them, of course, because I do not want to rub the mouth of anyone. When the matter turned around, however, a colleague from SDS waved his mouth to his colleagues from SD and left, and so on. President, a procedural appeal to you today to ensure a level playing field for all Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. This appeal is, of course, in place. These problems have been experienced for quite some time, not only in plenary sessions, but also in working-body meetings. But I will once again give my opinion, and I stand firm behind this opinion. The President, at least at a plenary session or at a working body meeting – and here I aim at the presidents of both the opposition and the coalition, at all the presidents – has no right to moderate the debate of the Member unless this is offensive and manifestly contrary to what the purpose of the individual meeting is. The fact that I now fall into the words of the Minister or an individual Member, because it seems to me that he has gone a little bit, does not lead anywhere. This only leads to some kind of autocratic debate. Parliament is the very institution where everyone has the right to say whatever he wants, even if someone thinks it's stupid or too wide or anything like that. I hope that today all Vice-Presidents - one is here, I hope others hear that too - are listening to this and that it will not come to anyone's mind to interfere with the debates of Members, unless they are really offensive. You know, there's something else I need to warn you about. A sharp debate, that it is obvious to someone that it is on one side or the other, is not yet what must be prohibited. I think it is necessary to limit where a Member drops to a personal and offensive level, where he discredits someone as a person, not where he may be discredited because of his political views or where he is discredited by his political action. So I hope that this debate will go away in this spirit, not just the one, but also the ones that are taking place on the committees. A good day or two ago, I received a letter from the President of the Council of State, reminding me that the President of the Finance Board had also gone against him. I think that this relationship, which each President must show to the Members, must also show to all the other invited and other present at the meeting. You read the papers. They say it's 150 days before the election. Procedural proposal, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u24	Comrade Zorčič, in the vast majority, I agree with you. As long as I was in charge of the Health Committee, I ran it at school, if you say so. However, I would not agree with colleague Heferle here, but I think that today's session should be a little more “tankual” without his intrusion into the word, because the subject is interpolation. As wide as the Minister has set up, we can talk about anything in the epidemiology that this government has failed to the agenda of the 75th annual meeting of Unesca in Paris. I don't want that kind of gibberish. My procedural proposal is that, for once in Parliament, we stick to the rules of procedure, where it is very clear in the article on meeting management that the agenda items are discussed, which I have always followed as Chairman of the Health Committee. Just do it, and I'd stop now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u25	Comrade Duck, I disagree with you, and we will handle this as I have described. I will not reach out to the Minister if she represents her work as good and quality, even if others disagree or disagree. She also has that right at interpretation. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, Comrade Trček, that's enough with procedural suggestions. We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors List Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! Many have been surprised by today's performance by the minister. I am not personally, because when I was preparing for this interpretation, a acquaintance told me: “The ministers advised me to expose in his defense his womanhood, how they get on with it.” He also warned me that when she did so, she might point out what she had done with Mrs Javornik, Mrs Samardžija and Mrs Šushmelj, who are all women, and what was happening to them in the ministries. So it was just a trick to divert attention from the minister, which, of course, has no tail or head. What is the situation in Slovenia today? Today, Slovenia has the lowest standards on political hygiene, competence to manage the resources and also to take responsibility. This is also evidenced by the fact that we now have a second interpretation of the work and responsibility of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec. If Slovenia had acted normally, if it had been governed by standards such as those in democratic countries, Minister Kustec would have been out of office for a long time. But with us the current government has set somewhat different standards, perhaps standards that rule in some other countries. The very contents of the readings, which, together with the opposition, we read to Minister Kustec in the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarc, have already been said, have been said much, but in fact it is through the Minister's work that the entire mandate itself has been discussed. Minister Kustec had only one task, and it was to prepare educational institutions for education during the epidemic, and also to communicate humanly with kindergartens, schools, universities, sports clubs and finally with parents, children, students, students and athletes. It is said that all these measures are properly communicated with them. It means those whom the Minister, by his own duty, should also represent. What she has managed to do from an area she does not represent, I will present it below. Because there was a lot of this, I'm going to touch only the most bizarre cases of her not managing the department. The very communication and ignorance of the director is the talk of her performance in one of the TV shows – which, by the way, the current authority wants to end – where she faced one of the principals of primary schools. All the questions raised by both the headmistress and the headmistress were answered by only one answer: the decree is clear. And now I'm asking myself here, is this decision really that clear if there are so many parents, so many question managers? These uncertainties and confusion are mainly due to the lack of competences, the lack of dialogue and the elimination of all those involved in the implementation of all forms of education. I'm only going to count two cases. Ministry decree: anyone who does not respect the measures will be educated at a distance. Okay, but in what way? There are two options. Whether all the departments in all primary schools have cameras — which is the fact that they don't have them — because we know how many cameras one primary school has — or whether everyone is capable of doing what the minister did to clone themselves to be in the classroom and at the same time through different connections. All those who know the school system and have had conversations with principals and professors in recent days know the inadequacy of teaching these students at home today. In fact, only by sending them more instruction than by sending them instructions. And an even bigger problem, including parents who don't bring their children to school, they say, we'll teach them at home. But here it's forgotten to say the point is that parents didn't go to professors to be able to communicate their skills to students, is said to their children, and that knowledge is just lax. Here will be the damage that will be done at this time, huge. Another example that is even more frightening is what the Ministry has done for all those represented, the administrators, the teachers to protect them from the individual aggression of parents. We know that the principals and teachers are only doing what the Ministry says, but all the anger, and all these protests are actually going against them. We see that we have come even so far as to be protected by the police. These examples point to the underestimating, excluding and ignoring attitude towards the professional and interested public, the school unions and civil society, and the inability to coordinate epidemiological measures in the education and education system and not take responsibility. Finally, the Association of Associations of Pedagogical Workers points out that we do not have a system to answer the question of how to organise distance education. The Ministry did not organise the implementation of technical adjustments, which could provide safe teaching also at a distance, namely plexi glass, barriers, purchase of single tables. The Ministry didn't do that. The requirement to provide funds for mechanical ventilation in schools, according to the Secretary of State at school management, can be purchased by means of means taken to purchase protective equipment, according to the words of the Ministry. Of course, the Secretary of State forgot to say that the funds were not enough to buy masks or disinfect them. Perhaps this is where the ministry followed the opinion of SDS: "No, you will not sell recovery and do left-wing business and extra profits in the public sector. Schools have windows." So it's very sad. And we're moving on. What did the Minister do in the field of higher education if I let her close colleges and student homes so that students couldn't even do practical exercises? It's just that it's been said again today that students are supposed to go to long-distance school. While the Rector of our largest university publicly writes that over 90% of the employees are vaccinated and that according to the data they have, about 80% of the students are vaccinated. It means, yes, we understand, lockdown for everyone, but again obviously, young people and those who respect the measures that have been vaccinated and who are our future. But the minister's little concern is that she herself was involved in favouring private colleges, such as the so-called Jambrek University. Although we all warned of this, she eventually received an earring from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which annulled part of the anti-Korona law, which extended the deadline for meeting the conditions for the establishment of a higher education institution as defined in the new Higher Education Act. But no, that was not enough, she also dealt with SDS personnel, Dr. Matei Makarovic and Dr. Borut Rončević, who, through all the development and strategic documents with public funds, are establishing a new university. Piko did it yesterday at the government when they accepted the award of concessions for private colleges. We know which governments so beautifully grant concessions, according to the three governments in the Republic of Slovenia. Perhaps even the saddest story, the Foreigners Act, where the Minister would of course have to call and protect these students, the novelty of the law for students and students abroad poses unreasonable bureaucratic obstacles to study in Slovenia, a new way of verifying sufficient financial resources for temporary stay in Slovenia is a major obstacle, some will even have to finish studies prematurely. With the amendment of the law, students must have pre-financing for survival in the Republic of Slovenia when applying for temporary stay in Slovenia, which means around EUR 5,000. So here things have turned out to be a lot worse. The next area, the minister prefers to take pictures in this area, is sports. Only the latter could be said here: that the ministers should suggest that the word sport withdraw from the name of the ministry which should lead it. She says the most about her involvement in sports of Slovenian football clubs, where it has been said that the country is against sport, the minister does not know the current situation in sport. In short, the Minister prevented Slovenian athletes from training and games, including those of the most excellent. Finally, one of the Slovenian teams lost the European game, which was a unique event in the European Union, and later, of course, took a very proud picture with these athletes in Tokyo. It's with the same athletes who stopped them from training and games, and then they had to go abroad. To me, if you'll excuse the expression, that doesn't seem normal. Even the saddest area — insensitivity for the mental and physical health of children and young people. The fact is that the covida-19 epidemic has worsened the mental health of children and adolescents. A panel online study on the impact of the pandemic on life showed high levels of risk for depression among young people. According to the SOS, the reason for the alarming mental health of students is a lack of social contacts, so they also called on the Government to act, of course – like everyone who calls for it – unsuccessful. Calls for systematic and immediate action by the Government, the departmental ministries and professions, and support for the mental health of children and adolescents by the NEJZ. There has been no appropriate action by the Minister until today. In the area of prevention, reducing risk factors for the protection of the mental health of children and young people, the Minister should do much more. It also weakens the ability to move and increases the obesity of children. Since the Ministry of Primary School has excluded from the range of operators of the annual sports programme, they could not compete for money that would enable them to carry out additional sports activities. Let us not forget children with special needs, which only the Constitutional Court has brought back to the school bench. If you do not believe me, dear Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, believe at least Dr. Maria Anderluh, Head of the Child Psychiatric Service in UKC Ljubljana. I quote: “More exposed are those children who live in socially weaker environments, children who live in families where they have less stable and healthy relationships with adults. It's a generation where our society will settle in the future. With the Ministry of Education, we remain on separate shores as if we were not talking about the same children and the same situation." I'll read that sentence again. I quote the head of the Child Psychiatric Service in UKC Ljubljana: “With the Ministry of Education”, this is the Ministry led by Dr. Kustec, “we are staying on separate shores as if we were not talking about the same children and the same situation. It seems difficult to understand that only by hand will we be able to address the overall welfare of children." If the Head of Children's Psychiatrics publicly states that they are not on the same shores as the Education Ministry, I think that is just enough reason for the Minister to say goodbye to her position in these times of crisis. To conclude, why do we believe in the letter of Marjan Šarc that the Minister is no longer in a position to run her ministry? Minister Kustec is not on the side of children, students and students and their knowledge, development and socialisation. Minister Kustec is not on the side of teachers, professors and administrators who, because of reckless and vague decisions, have been in chaos and anger at their parents. Minister Kustec is not on the side of sports and a healthy lifestyle. Minister Kustec doesn't understand parents either. Minister Kustec is completely empathetic. Minister Kustec has not been able to prepare a timely and effective plan or set of measures against the coronavirus in order to ensure a safe and reliable education process, in all 19 months since we are facing covider-19, to avoid distance education. Minister Kustec does not take into account the profession, not even epidemiologists, teachers and psychologists. Minister Kustec repeatedly says that the educational institutions must close the last and open the first. That was just in words. The fact is that schools in Slovenia were closed in front of everything else, and nothing has happened in order to improve the ventilation of school premises and other measures that would help to infect the virus. Minister Kustec does not establish a dialogue with important stakeholders, if any, but does not take them into account. Minister Kustec does not take into account her training models. Minister Kustec has always been responsible for carrying out distance learning and teaching in difficult epidemiological situations. Minister Kustec is hiding. Every time something's wrong, he hides and puts it all on his colleagues. Minister Kustec employed in education and education burdens with many circulars, decrees that are completely unclear and incorrect. Moreover, Minister Kustec takes decisions that too often turn out to be unconstitutional or illegal. Minister Kustec is inactive and makes a decisive lack. Almost no action has been taken in the area of sport in anti-Korona legislation; it has established no technical adaptations in schools or classrooms, ventilation systems, partitions, single tables, rotation systems, as other democratic European developed countries do. Minister Kustec is absent and non-responsible at the crucial times when the school system needs it most, which is extremely irresponsible because it is decisive in organising the implementation of educational measures. Minister Kustec is constantly incompetent and inexplicably communicating, often contradictory, adding additional confusion and confusion to the school space. Minister Kustec probably doesn't even understand herself. In short, education, science and sport have been without their minister for a long time. There's no minister. The Ministry doesn't run it, its function only exists on paper. I think today's decision can only be one thing: Minister Kustec, do yourself a favor, your schoolmates, your children and your parents and leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! This year, in 2021, we are discussing for the second time the interpretation of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec. This fact alone points to the fact that you are one of the worst ministers in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. I have already discussed at the first interpellation that the Minister's political responsibility is a special form of responsibility that can be exercised either individually or in conjunction with a legal, moral and other form of responsibility, and that this responsibility can be objective or subjective. Dear Minister, you are responsible both objectively and subjectively for the irresponsible and unacceptable treatment of our children. You've earned an absolute negative assessment. You, a minister who should be the first defender of children, their advocate, their ally, in the current government, do not represent the interests of children. Neither do they represent the interests of parents, the interests of teachers, the directors, nor the union. Under your leadership, the school sector has no advocate in the government. All areas of education are neglected under your leadership, thrown into some form of abandonment on their own. So kindergartens, primary schools, high school, high school, sports. It is your duty to ensure, in difficult circumstances, that the field of education in addition to health will be the first concern of this government. Unfortunately, you always feel that the ministry you run is just one apparatus, extended by the Cabinet of the President of the Government. Dear Minister, where in God's name have you been hiding all this time? Since the beginning of this school year, you have never been overlooked. Last Tuesday, November 9th, when the debate on the continuation of the course was held at its peak, when it literally ruled chaos over the introduction of self-testing students in schools, you preferred to travel to Paris instead of talking and looking for common solutions. Just like when you went to Tokyo to the Olympics, and before the beginning of the school year, when you last gave instruction to schools about the course. Even then, schoolchildren, teachers and principals needed you here, not in Paris, not Tokyo. And then you answer that you can't just clone. This is an absolute mockery from the entire school sector. More than once, Slovenia does not really have a Minister of Education because you are absent most of the time. If we touch the self-testing of students in schools. You ignored the principals' calls so the youngest students could be tested at home. In the meantime, the World Health Organisation has appointed a special expert committee, which has made it clear that the age groups of children should be taken into account when taking measures. You did not listen to the principals when they told you that they were under extreme pressure to receive even threatening letters. You did not know whether you wanted to answer the specific questions and dilemmas of the schoolchildren. A number of questions remained open at the start of the self-test. The principals made it clear that hybrid learning is the worst teaching option. The school union SWIZ warned that the measure was controversial. In fact, all measures must ensure that the child is protected from all forms of discrimination or even punishment due to the position and functioning of the opinions expressed. Here only one child may be discriminated against, for which parents have decided not to allow self-testing in schools, and this is directly an unequal position of the child towards other children. You have also not even considered that children should perform self-testing with saliva tests that are in some ways more friendly, less invasive and easier to use. Dear Minister, you don't know how to have a dialogue with schoolchildren, you can't reconcile parents, teachers, principals, you're not looking for common solutions. You are arrogantly taking responsibility for schoolchildren by leaving them in uncertainty and not answering the specific questions that arise in practice. School space needs peace, it needs some stability, not that measures and decrees change from day to day. Today we test ourselves at home, tomorrow at school, today we wear such masks, tomorrow we wear different masks. There is certainly no time for overplay, at least on the shoulders of children. Those who work with children daily know best what is really feasible and what is not. Schoolboys, schoolchildren know, but you don't listen to them at all, Minister. They warn themselves all the time that they have no advocate. We should be taking action with them, not past them. We have prepared the interpretation in the opposition more than two months ago, and since then, there have been many additional mistakes of yours, Your Honourable Minister, so we can say that we are now actually already at your third interpretation. “Kadrovski fiasco of the Minister of Education” is just one of the titles in the media when they write about your recruitment at the Ministry. The last such move was that your proposal for the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Investment at the Ministry, which was literally ripped apart by the Council of Officials, stated that such a bad proposal as you have made has not been on their table in all history. You've either expelled all the good people or expelled them from the Ministry. In September of this year, the child was taught in schools, not far away. Yet, from union to principals, teachers, and parents, two weeks before the beginning of the teaching, warned that they had no instructions on how to teach. You let them wait right up until the last one. Even in the National Assembly, we had to call on the opposition at the end of August to give at least a few answers, at least a few clarifications. Thus, you did not give the schoolchildren the time to prepare themselves in peace and stress free for the new school year. This is unacceptable and sad. As if it hadn't been for two years since this epidemic started, there have been countless debates about your incompetence, the distinguished minister, your unwillingness for the challenges of education, your lack of information and much more. During all this time until the beginning of this school year, you were unable to draw up a clear plan for the implementation of the educational process. You take measures far too late, all the information, but really all the information always comes back at the last moment and too late. Even today, our children are experiencing the extraordinary consequences of the long - term closure of schools. Because the schools were absolutely closed for too long. Some children suffered at home between four walls, some developed behavioral and emotional problems, and you turned your back on them, your esteemed minister. The number of hospitalisations resulting from suicide attempts increased by 30% among secondary school students last year. There is also a significant increase in feeding disorders in young people. There's a lot of emotional distress, there's a lot of apathy, there's a lot of anxiety. And more and more online violence. But especially on impact are children from vulnerable groups. However, when schools begin to open, they should actively approach the search for solutions and provide and prepare all necessary, including devices and equipment, such as single benches, such as adequate ventilation, adequate protective equipment, and especially sufficient personnel. Instead, school managements at the opening warned that they were afraid that they would not be able to take full account of all measures due to lack of staff. With your insistence on distance learning, children with special needs were not provided with additional professional assistance live and elsewhere, with a decision on prescribed adjustments, which had a negative impact on their knowledge and possible behavioural, emotional deficits. It's not some conjecture from the opposition, Your Honorable Minister. Everyone is alerting you to your mistakes, everyone is. If we merely quote the words of the representative of the principals at the beginning of this school year: “We have not received any concrete answer.” End of quote. The following quote: “As many bluffs as there are now in our ministry have not yet been.” Or the words of the school principals after an online consultation regarding the self - examination of the students after they left the council in protest. I quote: “The Ministry of Education does not want to listen to us, but at the same time expects us to meet unrealistic demands in schools next week.” Finally, a quote from someone who actually means something in school: "The fact is that Mrs. Kustec has come to this function completely unprepared without knowing anything about education, about kindergartens, about higher education. Mrs Kustec, I am sure of this, no one will miss the place they occupy." For the sake of all this, Madam Minister, we call on you in the Group of Social Democrats to step down so that you do not cause any more harm to children and the entire school sector than you have done to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary! For the second time in this mandate, we are giving you a request: step down, leave your post. It's a situation where you're practically not there. When I listened to your answers to the interpolation given earlier, you also highlighted your concern for the mental health of participants in the education and education system, how important you have been in action to provide funds for ventilation devices. Unfortunately, we must tell you that there has been an intensive, strong, professionally supported debate in this National Assembly and its Education Committee on these matters. Madam Minister, there were no such debates. Answers precisely from these two segments, the mental health care of pupils, students, the provision of air ventilators for Slovenian education – the Ministry of Education has done nothing in this area. On the contrary, the situation has so exacerbated that there is irreparable harm to the participants. Today we will not speak and listen to the opposition's 15 hours of work on the results achieved by the ministry you are currently leading. On the contrary, we are talking about concrete criticisms, warnings, demands from kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, tertiary education. The one who does not hear this is deaf, blind, or simply does not read the Clipping they are preparing for him at work. Otherwise, his reactions would be completely different and, above all, his actions would be completely different. The school policy in Slovenia is clearly governed by the President of the Government and the Minister follows only blindly on one side of the government's decisions and quietly allows for the acquisition and politicisation of school space by the largest coalition party. What are the benefits for today and tomorrow of Slovenian school space? During the epidemic and thus the biggest health and educational crisis in the history of Slovenia, the Minister was operationally absent and the Ministry failed to play its coordinating role. The measures related to school premises were therefore inconsistent, changing practically from day to day, sudden, legally questionable and, above all, inconsistent with schoolchildren and the teaching profession and being disproportionately affected by children and young people in schools. Madam Minister, in all this time you have not established a serious section, one interdisciplinary team or an expert advisory group, which could make a substantial contribution to the adoption of meaningful and timely measures in the field of the country's education system. Although you have been invited on several occasions, you have practically put the trade unions and the teaching profession aside. As a result, the Ministry does not have to date any serious analysis of the situation or evaluation study, which would at least approximate the number of learning objectives from the curriculums for primary schools, secondary education programmes and kindergartens, achieved or realized, where the objectives and learning standards are manoeuvring, where there are subjects, what compensation strategies at schools and so on. Instead, Madam Minister, you say that teachers report this or that, you provide partial and unreliable information, with which there is also a lot of manipulation. The Minister also reduces the importance of the actual negative effects of the long-term closure of schools and does not recognise the serious consequences of the epidemic on the school system in the country. Despite the Minister's claim otherwise, schools in Slovenia were closed for the longest time in the European Union. This is clearly demonstrated by the data and comparative analyses of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. If the United Nations is lying, representatives of the SDS, please talk to them, give them other information. Unesca data clearly show that schools in Slovenia have been fully or partially closed for 47 weeks, which is the longest in the European Union, I repeat. Despite this terrible data, the Minister writes in his reply to the interpretation that last year's school year was a success in terms of the learning process and that the analyses show this. But unfortunately, this analysis is not presented by the Minister because there are none. Otherwise, please, on the table with them. The Ministry therefore has no professional or analytical basis for its statements and self-assessments on the effectiveness of the organisation of learning during the epidemic. Therefore, the unfounded assertion of its own success is another indication that the Minister does not take seriously the radical and extremely serious conditions and interventions in the course of the epidemic. In Levica we are aware that the epidemic is particularly serious at the moment, that we can quickly find ourselves in a situation where health workers will have to decide who gets a place or a bed in the intensive care department and who doesn't. We therefore, of course, support measures to prevent the spread of infection in schools, including self-testing. It is important that schools are open, but at the moment it is also important to prevent the spread of the virus and thus unnecessary death. This is the shared responsibility of the ministry, teachers, parents, children and young people in schools. The role of the Ministry of Education is essential. Its role is to provide school authorities with timely, unambiguous and professional and legally supported and enforceable frameworks within which they must operate. But the secretary obviously doesn't know that. Like the entire government, the Minister of Education has failed to establish the confidence that the epidemic would require bloodyly. Parents who forbid their children from testing and those who refuse testing as unnecessary or even harmful do so, Madam Minister, because they simply no longer trust in your ministry. During the greatest public health crisis, the government enjoyed political change at the institutes, huge police personnel cleaning, energy training, attacks on the media, the introduction of privileges for SDS's home universities, school politicisation and so on. You have unfortunately remained silent in many such political acquisitions and abuses of the epidemic to promote partisan interests. Not only were the Ministry's actions confusing, inconsistent, inconsistent and incomprehensible, but you, as the ruling party and its employees, have lost all confidence, not only our own, but also the trust of parents, administrators, teachers, school workers and educators. Without confidence, however, we cannot convince people of the meaning of government action. All you will achieve is that your mistrust in your work will be translated into aggression against principals and teachers. Therefore, it is best that you leave this position as soon as possible. We offer this to you in Levika in good faith, with a positive purpose. Madam Minister, this is not about you, this is about the education system in the country, for preschool children, students, students and students, teachers, for parents. A minimal critical analysis and a look back from the human being is expected if the results are such as to give him a decent goodbye and say, take responsibility, leave my job, which is very important, to be taken over by someone who is a part of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! A good year and a half rule in emergency situations caused by SARS-COV-2, the new Coronavirus, covid-19, requires extraordinary efforts. The management of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in addition to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is one of the most responsible and challenging ministries in these difficult times. This is also recognised by the opposition with today's interpretation of the school minister, Dr Simone Kustec, who has been dealing with this terrible virus and epidemic and is still dealing with difficult situations in the fields of education, sport, science and youth. When a person reads the reasons and indications in this interpretation, he wonders where this common interest is in helping young people and children in these difficult situations that we are witnessing and whether the interpretation is even justified. Of course not. Instead of helping and cooperating in maintaining the economy in these extremely difficult and difficult situations, the opposition's colleagues help the health and school system, spreading the facts daily, misleading and spreading the intolerance, hatred that has moved to Ljubljana's streets. We cannot help but point out that it was at the opposition party of Social Democrats signed under today's interpolation that they called for school masks not to be worn at the beginning of the epidemic with posters, public media performances and social networks. Remember the slogan for a school without masks? I know that you are aware that such actions exert pressure on teachers and administrators who follow the recommendations of the health profession and the National Institute of Public Health. I believe that at the time, none of us imagined that the crown would practically stop us, lock us up in bubbles and completely change our lives. Being responsible for yourself, neighbor, children and youth, teachers and elders in these extraordinary times is a courageous act that demands solidarity, empathy and dedication. There is no indication that the interview against Minister Simoni Kustec is true. The finding in the interpolation of the suspension of the duty of irresponsibly neglecting preparation for the school year 2021/2022 in known epidemiological conditions is not valid. When the schools closed their doors last March and set up distance education, we all entered an unknown environment, students, students, parents, teachers and principals. The shortcomings of the school system, which is drawn from the time before the co-vide, have shown that the introduction of digitisation and adaptation of the school system to the needs of the modern world is weak and too slow. We were completely unprepared. The promises made by some previous ministers, including by the SD party, about investing in computerisation have proved to be mere words at the time of the epidemic. We were unprepared and unequipped. Here it goes to praise the pro-active role of the minister and the ministry, who never stopped, never stopped the education of children, but it went on and on. Together with all stakeholders in the education system, despite difficult circumstances, they have responded very well. I would like to point out that, in the last two weeks, long-distance education has been established without adequate prior experience and has worked well. Key objectives have been set for them: ensuring a continuous educational process tailored to specific circumstances, preventing greater differences between pupils in the adoption of knowledge at this time and special care for vulnerable groups, providing appropriate tools for technical support to teachers in the implementation of distance education, monitoring of distance education analyses. The main indicator of good and successful distance education was certainly the graduation at the end of the education year 2020/2021. According to the results achieved, 97% of the students were successful in the first term and 94% were successful in 2019, while 90.3% were successful in the first period. The same is true of a professional prom. These are the results of students, professors and all involved in the education system, including ministers. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport Prof. Dr. Simona Kustec wrote in a publication for the school year 2021/2022, according to the experience and knowledge of educational processes during the covida-19 pandemic: "The space of education and education is an important co-formulator of the general social climate and culture. It is precisely the response of this space that reflects maturity, responsibility and understanding in the face of new circumstances, especially the ability and willingness to look for the best possible path for the future. At the level of education systems in most countries, this path is reflected in two basic orientations throughout Europe and around the world: the promotion and strengthening of the role of educators and teachers as bearing pillars of education and education on the one hand and the integrated development of the personality of learners, as well as their parents on the other hand; the programmatic and organisational forms of so-called mixed or combined learning, the blended learning that reflect the combination of traditional learning in school spaces, digital education in the distance and the remaining forms of education, especially in the open.” One of the main aims of distance education was to ensure that students' contact with the educational and content fields within the school system and to maintain the level of knowledge achieved among students, to encourage them to achieve the objectives in accordance with the curricula and to encourage them to act proactively and to care for knowledge and development. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport was aware and is also aware today that there is a need for students to be provided with professional support in the substantive sense, as well as support and assistance in understanding and responding to the current social situation. During this time, it was intensified in communication with associations of directors and directors, with communities, NGOs, institutes, unions, representatives of the student and student organisation, representatives of the Association of Assets of the Councils of Parents of Slovenia, the Ombudsman, Advocates of Fundamental Equality, NIJZ, departmental ministries, parents. The obvious fact that we had the longest closed schools in Slovenia – we have heard this again today – has been rejected several times at the Ministry of Education. We also ordered a research assignment in the National Assembly, which discards it with numbers and graphs. Despite all of this, the opposition repeats this and hopes that the lie, ten times repeated, will be captured. But the facts are different. It is important to stress that the Minister has worked all the time for the welfare of children and adolescents and to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic on children and adolescents. That is why the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has provided schools and other educational institutions with a range of districts, guidelines and recommendations on how schools, teachers and teachers and other professionals and workers should meet the challenges of carrying out educational work and providing support to pupils and students and students during the epidemic and of closing and returning to school premises. Various trainings and seminars are available to support teachers and other professionals to deal with new conditions, and experts from the Ministry of Education are also available for all issues and support. Since it was not possible to predict how the epidemic situation in the school year 2021/2022 would allow the implementation of education in schools, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, in cooperation with the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, Directors, Directors of kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, primary schools with adapted programmes and institutions, music schools, student homes and NIJZ, have also prepared models for the school year 2021/2022 which form the basis for the organisation and implementation of the school year. The models are designed to enable schools to carry out school education as much as possible, taking into account health recommendations. There is also a combination of distance learning and schooling, and in extreme cases only distance learning. That's what the secretary talked about today, and she showed it. All planned activities and envisaged measures are based on the current design of the Slovenian school system, which is defined by legal and sub-legislative acts and by professional documents. Spatial and human resources opportunities of schools are also taken into account. Schools and kindergartens were recommended to take into account the positive practices and recommendations made by the Slovenian Institute of Education and the Slovenian Inspectorate for Education and Sport in the past and previous school year in the planning and implementation of the educational and educational process. The recommendations and models were made from 23 to 25 August 2021, according to before the start of the school, presented in more detail to managers of educational institutions at the conference of principals and directors of educational institutions in the Republic of Slovenia under the title Pedagogical guidance for raising quality and efficiency. Therefore, the indication in the interpretation of the irresponsibly disregarding preparation for the school year is not and is malicious. With a view to the timely and appropriate start of the school year, 26 districts were sent to the educational organisation from June 2021 to the end of August 2021 and 14 meetings with different stakeholders were organised, from MIZŠ, NIJZ, Ministry of Health, Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, principals of primary schools, secondary schools, kindergartens to all others involved. Despite the pandemic and the difficult situation in the education and training system, the work of the Minister and the Government was also smooth at the legislative level at that time. At that time, the Children’s Guidance Act was adopted with special needs. Eight anti-Korona packages were accepted to help parents, students, students, students, teachers as well. The law on free kindergartens for the second, third and subsequent children of the same family was adopted, the law on financing education and education, which, after seven years, abolished the constitutional decision on the non-constitutionality and non-funding of private schools. The Law on Scientific Research was adopted after more than a decade of promises and coordination. Therefore, it is not clear that the Minister has no relation to scientific research and innovation. Yesterday's law will upgrade and strengthen the funding system for scientific research and innovation activities in Slovenia and improve the cooperation of science and the economy. The strong efforts and commitment of the Minister of Quality and successful public education are also reflected in the provision of funding for kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. Over the next three years, €115 million will be provided for the construction of kindergartens and schools in Slovenia. In her presentation, the minister showed a graph. We've seen how and how much he's spent the last two years on this. Our education urgently needs these resources; it urgently needs updates, since it has not been invested in it for more than a decade. This shows the relationship of Minister Simone Kustec to children and education. Since the minister was able to provide high financial resources, the opposition wrote her an interpellation. Out of resentment. It is the wish of all stakeholders, ministries, governments and all of us that this school year, which started in school benches, ends in school meals. Believe it or not, it is also up to all of us, our social responsibilities and respect for the NIJ recommendations and vaccination decisions. The increasing response of directors and clinical psychologists over the past few weeks suggests that the irresponsibility of some leaders and past acts of the opposition is to be transferred to the minister. This is outrageous and unacceptable. Everyone must take responsibility for the things for which he is appointed and responsible. It's like the Ministry of Health and Health is responsible for the irresponsibility of health homes and health personnel, not the director of the health home. All successful and successful tasks in Slovenia and Europe, as well as the successful response to the epidemic and opposition, have surely been strengthened by Minister Simono Kustec's conviction that she has done everything she can and knows in a truly difficult situation. We can admit that she was successful at this. Members of New Slovenia we have been monitoring her efforts and work all the time, so we trust her that the Minister will work so well in the future. We have a coalition treaty under which this coalition works, and we are pleased that it will be fully implemented in the areas of education, science, sport and youth. Interpellations by Members of New Slovenia – we will not support Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present, especially the Secretary of State, both Secretary of State! Within eight months, Professor Simone Kustec, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, has been given second interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. At this time, in these eight months we have made one major social move in terms of the availability of covidu-19 vaccines. The vaccine is sufficient and accessible to all. The number of active infections, the number of hospitalized persons and those in intensive care have reached such values that they are reflected in the uncertainty of our future. In the field of education and education, our social conditions and social climate also reflect. This field is co-created by us Members, and we, through our children, who are involved every day in the processes of education and education, can evaluate individual measures in our own way. The fact is, two months after the start of the new school year, we have 45 thousand active covid infections, on average about 3,000 300 new cases of infections per day and about 250 people on intensive treatment. With the intervention against the Minister of Education, the situation in our society has changed significantly as a result of the new coronavirus. Of course, it is easy to say that two or three months ago the situation was known, but this situation did not allow any insight into the current situation. Slovenian hospitals are on the verge of capacity, even to the extent that they need foreign assistance. However, the solution is, of course, to infect the epidemic by reducing the number of infected people. According to the expert group for covid-19, most infections are in the home environment, in the workplace and in education and education. As we said earlier in March this year during the first interpretation of the Minister of Education, the area of education and education is large, firm and sensitive, especially in the last year and a half, when its operation is determined by covid. Therefore, there is still a need for measures in the field of education and education. Distance learning in the past school year is something that many other countries have introduced. In Slovenia, we are not pioneers of this measure, nor are we recorders after the duration of certain measures, not even distance education. But we will not repeat ourselves. During the duration of long-distance education, we have seen how long this measure has lasted in other countries and how long we have. The text of the interpolation contains a number of other indications, from a degrading and non-professional attitude towards scientific research activities to the harmful, unwise and politically motivated abolition of the school for administrators. The question is whether, because of different views on the same content, it may also be due to a different time frame for the adoption of a scientific research law, which was partly due to the early resignation of the government of Marjan Šarc, and partly due to the need for further coordination with key stakeholders, the Minister is entitled to report a demeaning and non-professional relationship in this area. Let us just remember that the new Law on Scientific Research and Innovation was adopted yesterday by a convincing majority, with 80 votes in favour and no votes against. However, he made a number of references in the text of the interpolation relating to scientific research activity. As for the merger of public institutions and funds, this was a common practice in the past, but only actors were different. The reasons were different and the opinions were never uniform. The main guide in this regard was usually the optimization of work processes. The School for Directors was also not terminated, but was attached to the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education. From not so far-reaching history, from the previous mandate, we can recall a similar example of the accession of the Public Fund for the Development of Personnel and Fellowships to the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund. The Association was proposed by the Government on a proposal from the Director, led by the Social Democrats at the time. This connection is mentioned only in cases, since it was not the only one, but the fund still works smoothly today, as the Education Institute will continue to operate, to which all activities and all employees of the School of Directors have been transferred. As in March this year, we are still convinced that the management of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is one of the most difficult in the current situation. When we talk about the youngest members of our society, it is only right that the measures are being shaken and evaluated accurately and publicly. We have repeatedly stressed that distance education cannot replace schooling. Schools are not just a place where children and adolescents are taught knowledge, they are also a place for socializing and establishing contacts, which at the time of growing up are essential for the formation of individuals and the social network of each individual. In the last year, a number of studies have been carried out at international level which have shown that there have been certain shortcomings in the socio-emotional, movemental and cognitive development of pupils and students during distance education. Covid hurt not only Slovenia, but all countries around the world. As we can understand from the response to interpolation, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has designed an evaluation of the progress and effects of distance education during the covida-19 epidemic at the levels of primary and secondary education in terms of achieving learning goals and standards of knowledge and in terms of socio-emotional response. The following will be an opportunity for the Minister to give detailed answers in this area as well. In this context, we must not forget the importance of interdisciplinaryism in dealing with the mental distress of children and adolescents, as well as all other social groups in need of professional assistance. In July this year, we adopted the Law on Emergency Measures in the Field of Health, which granted additional 30 specialisations in the field of clinical psychology. This is one of the more important measures for these groups and an important step towards strengthening the mental health aid network. In the text of the interpolation, it is possible to detect in some way the entire text the style used for the personal discrediting of individuals and others. The style and tone reflected on the 20th page of the interpolation also reflect the desire for different management of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, in particular those who had this opportunity a short time ago. The Minister shall carry out her work in a responsible and conscientious manner. Despite the epidemic and the emergency measures to contain covid-19, the Minister, with her team, has prepared a number of other measures, legal and sub-legislative acts, which are part of the current or regular programme, and also those which should have been adopted long ago. More on this in the debate below. Interpellations on the work and responsibility of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simone Kustec in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u36	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary! A while ago, a acquaintance introduced me one such funny word, in fact, a term that is probably not well - known in modern times: cacostocracy. “By the word of cocoacracy”, he said, “we refer to the notion of the rule of the incompetent or to the function of completely inappropriate individuals.” The expression is supposed to come from the 17th century, but it seems that with the current government we are regaining momentum. To ensure that there is no mistake, the Minister of Education is not the only one that many believe meets this definition, but is the first of the same, who have been or will be on the interpretation floor in a short time. The first is those who either use the country with favour as a platform for the pursuit of their own or client interests or simply do not mature in their function. Let me remind you of the Minister of Justice, for whom we have failed to find out where and when and how he was employed before his office, and we have been able to find out that he is a tax evasion suspect. And to the long-standing self-sufficient Minister of the Interior, with authoritarian aspirations, who uses his position with favour for staff cleaning and police politicisation to the extent of the SDS. And to an uncultured minister of culture who has granted public funds to a neo-Nazi society. And the Minister for Environment and Space, who thinks paying taxes is stupid. And, of course, to the Minister of Infrastructure, who, in the field of energy, has achieved new corporate governance milestones with unprecedented human tsunamis. But I will return to the Minister of Education's interpretation. One of the key tasks, in fact, every time a Minister of Education, especially in these times of crisis, is to give all schoolchildren and their parents hope and confidence in a stable future and to ensure a secure school environment, an environment in which they spend a good half of their time. We're here today because most of us obviously don't think Minister Kustec is up to this task. As we have written in the text of the interpolation, the Minister caused harm to both learners and their parents, families and society as a whole, by her inaction, inappropriate and late response and vague and often contradictory information. That doesn't mean the minister's a bad man, not at all. She may be a great person, she may be a great wife and mother, she may also be a great lecturer, but this function here and now is clearly not right for her. In view of its evading the National Assembly, as well as the meeting with teachers and other stakeholders, we are increasingly aware of this. Even though the epidemic we witnessed has surprised the whole world, today, after almost two years, we have a substantial number of answers and the possibility of developing appropriate scenarios in a timely manner to carry out the school and study processes. This is how the third school year, which will pass in the wake of the epidemic, the profession, the public and the opposition continue to point out one and the same problems, while, as mentioned above, the minister prefers to hide from the public, so that 14 days before the start of the new school year, she still provides unclear information on how the education will take place, and in educational institutions still do not have adequate ventilation systems, there are no barriers, the number of children in the classrooms remained the same, adjustments to the morning and afternoon classes could be introduced, and so on, schooling still lacked quality masks and could be listed. In seven points, we agreed with the ministers in charge of its headquarters, which, according to the entire opposition, are such a dimension that the Minister deserves to interpel and leave her post. Since she has not so far been prepared to take political responsibility for not working effectively enough, we will set up a mirror for the second time at the hearing of the interpolation and present in more detail the arguments why, in our opinion, she cannot remain in her post. We believe that, despite the already well-known epidemiological situation, the fact that preparation for the current school year is important for both students, parents and teachers, the school year guidance should be clear, concrete and, above all, within such timeframes, which would enable all those involved in the school process to properly organise learning. Instead, both the professional and the interested public were given an underestimating and sometimes ignorant attitude, which is also one of the perceptions of interpolation. This is also supported by the difficulties of the students, when they did not know just before the start of the graduation in what way and when it would take place, and by the difficulties of the students who expected solutions in an additional year of study due to the failure of the study process. Both students and students have not received up-to-date information on the resolution of these problems, but in particular they have not been sufficiently involved in dialogue and participation in the consideration of appropriate measures. The measures were not even attended by Slovenian sport. We cannot ignore the fact that the Minister's actions in the field of sport do this even harm at times. Injuring children who have lost their gymnastics in school during the epidemic, they harm athletes who have lost their training at clubs. Also, the Minister for the Adoption of the Methodology, on the basis of which funds for the disinfection of sports props, appliances and equipment would be allocated, took more than half a year for athletes of the highest rank. Since November 2020, when the legal basis has been provided, everything since the end of July this year. Thus, in Slovenia we have witnessed the biggest decline in the mobility of Slovenian children, by more than 13%, and a 20% increase in the percentage of children with increased weight or obesity. The consequences will be seen in the development of the inaction of the central nervous system and the psychosocial consequences of children who also develop due to a lack of movement. Thus, in the SAB, we cannot ignore the fact that children were and are still in a situation of growing distress, increasingly anxious, angry, impatient, apathetic, anxiety, depression, even suicidal. Students have spent more time studying from home than before, but unfortunately they have gained less knowledge. During the week, there were 11 hours or more of schooling and teaching in front of the computer. Practically all school year and a half were burdened with uncertainty, never knowing exactly when they would be home and schooled and when they would receive this information. All of this has left an impact on learning success, lack of knowledge, lack of learning goals, impact on psychophysical health, and more frequent domestic violence. However, the minister simply did not know all the problems listed and could not address them. The greatest victims of mistakes will be the most vulnerable — children and adolescents. Let me add that the Government has recently taken new measures in education to limit the spread of the virus. All students must wear masks and are temporarily allowed to wear masks for children until a greater supply of surgical masks is available. Two days ago, however, the students also began to test themselves. We welcome such measures in our party. All of this, however, caused a lot of resentment between parents and schoolchildren. The only merifate person who should take over the steering wheel in this situation and be a link to the coordination of the different interests between the stakeholders and these coordinations in a timely manner is the Minister, who has disappeared again at this point. At the height of the debate on the further course of education, she travelled to Paris. In the SAB, we understand that the Minister also has international obligations, but given the situation and the moments that occur in this epidemic, and which are crucial for the good implementation of certain measures, it is essential that the top of the Ministry be present at these times. To ensure that school self - examination is smooth two days ago, we should especially thank the children who have proved that they can and their parents and teachers who have been well prepared for the new responsibilities. In the following days, we will present in detail all the points of interpolation, which have already been presented in my position and position before me in a frame of reference. For us in the SAB party, the most crucial point among them is the insensitiveness and irresponsibility of the Minister of Mental Health of our children and adolescents. The consequences of any irregular action may be enormous and far-reaching. In the parliamentary group, we will unanimously support the intervention against the Minister of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Mr. Ivan Hršak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Children are our greatest wealth, our future. We must always give them special care. This is especially true in times like those of today. The Coronavirus epidemic and its consequences were taxed everywhere, in health care, in the economy and ultimately in the field of education. In the Desus Group we have thoroughly read the interpretation against Minister Kustec. Some of the charges were out of her control or influence, but must still bear part of the responsibility. This time, too, she didn't do everything she could to make sure that schooling was normal. Teachers and principals did not have clear instructions, and at least at the beginning of the school year, they did not learn as they should. It was only in the last weeks of August that meetings took place with primary and secondary schools and kindergarten management, which did not give any concrete answers. In recent days, principals and teachers have thus had to take a thorough approach to the preparation and organization of teaching, since they have always had the worst possible scenarios — re-education from home and additional burdens on teachers. The Minister should establish a more specific dialogue with the professional public, trade unions and, above all, directors themselves. In cooperation with all stakeholders, they may be better prepared for a varied epidemiological fall. The experience of parts of different subsystems has already been experienced in the past year, and this year the transition should be easier. While it should be pointed out that last year's school transition may have improved restrictions after a period of leave which was not available this year. However, it is clear from all the comments, notes, and articles that this transition has not been easier. The tension and unanimity between the organizers and school performers have made students and students feel the consequences today. There's no way we can compare knowledge transfer with a computer and a personal one. This is particularly evident in the performance of the disciple’s tasks that parents have come to the aid of. They don't always have pedagogical skills and skills to help their children. Many times, though, after decades, parents have become familiar with a substance that they have virtually forgotten or developed and complemented by practically adopting it themselves. At the same time, many parents worked from home, making home schooling even more difficult. What will be the real impact on the distance of knowledge will be demonstrated by evaluations in the coming years. If we once felt this kind of distance education using computers and online news apps, we were faced with reality last year. Even for children who were only a longer walk away from school, the school remained closed and their rooms became classrooms. Their teacher was a picture on the screen and taught knowledge to the best of his ability. Of course, there was great damage in their social life. Expressions such as coronation are already used. Many of the social skills we acquire by growing up among peers have not been given this generation. The mental health of children, adolescents, and young adults has deteriorated dramatically during this period, facing isolation from peers. At the same time, parents and teachers have not received concrete guidance on how to deal with this. The desire for knowledge has fallen, as we can also talk about interdisciplinary motivation, a common desire for knowledge. Since most of the mental disorders that young people are following in adulthood are already developing at the time of primary education, the consequences of coronation, if I may say so, will be very noticeable in the future. As of today, we can monitor the world’s observers ’ reports on the growth of youth depression, which is extremely worrying. Young people have already been under a lot of stress due to daily obligations, and the additional stress caused by the epidemic has made the whole situation worse. The Ministry should be more specifically linked to all stakeholders in this area in order to at least ease the situation if it is not nearly prevented. Although interpolation does not directly touch this, it should also be pointed out that there has been a lack of a more concrete response in the last days when rapid testing has been established in primary schools. Directors and teachers faced the threats of their parents and were left to themselves. The Minister of Education should be the first to stand up to them. At the time of the epidemic, there was also talk of building deficiencies in schools, so - called ventilation systems. Of course, we cannot give the full impression here only to Minister Kustechev, since in the past the competent ministers have had the possibility of technical solutions and school arrangements in this area as well. Experts have pointed out the possibility of epidemic diseases over the years, so they could have prepared themselves earlier. In the Desus Group, we hope that this area will be adequately regulated by future Education Ministers in cooperation with other stakeholders. In the end, we must also touch on the physical consequences of the closure of educational institutions. The costs incurred by purchasing emergency distance education equipment have particularly endangered the material situation of socially disadvantaged families. The Ministry of Education in this area has not done much to bring itself closer to those who have virtually been unable to afford computers and other work facilities. Prices rose dramatically during this period, as demand was high. The Ministry of Education should cooperate more specifically with other departments and may even limit the sales prices of products in relation to pre-Korona period. As a result of all these additional costs, social differences among students were further highlighted by students at this time, leading to additional stigmatisation among young people. We can't just assign responsibility to one person. Each of us is at least a little responsible for the current situation, either because of the publication on social networks that opposes wearing masks of children in school, the promotion of protests during the health crisis, or because of communication in the National Assembly, where many times the reality has been underestimated. Make no mistake, we are in a time of great health crisis. We have sent soldiers to the hospital to help overworked medical personnel, and we are also discussing assistance from abroad. Our unanimity in dealing with the epidemic is also evident in the field between people. We will have to accept that it is necessary to cancel the health crisis in many ways in order to successfully overcome it. We also train our children in the spirit that life can lead to severe trials, which result in stronger ones if we respond and cooperate in a timely manner. In the Desus Group, we will finally take a decision on support or non-support for interpretation after the debate. For we want to hear concrete answers to the perceptions of interpretation and finally to the plans of the ministry, which future school ministers will have to take into account if they ever encounter a similar situation as we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u40	Allow me to say hello to the Minister of Education, Science and Sports first. We regret that today's interpolation caused her to miss an international meeting that would be credible in representing our colors. We do not see the Minister here very often, even here in Parliament, more often we see her three men secretaries of state, and even less so is seen by the Slovenian public. That is why she cannot be so happy today’s opportunity to explain what she is doing because she has had these opportunities every day. And that's exactly what we're talking about. Paris, Brussels, Tokyo, official activities on the international floor and inability to clone. This fact would not even be special, except for the inability to clone if we lived in normal times. At the usual time, you might even say that ministers are like football judges — if not noticed, they have done their job well. But we don't live in normal time. We are living in a time of major crisis, health, social and as a result of the lack of action of the Ministry of Education. I will not go into the details of the content of today's interpolation because I am convinced, after the introductory remarks, that my fellow signatories will make a detailed argument on everything that appears in it. However, I would like to point out that the consequences of the lack of action of the Minister and the Ministry will be long-term. In this way, the Minister did not choose from professional motives, even less so as to follow the political orientations of her home party. It seems that this is the way she has decided to do more in order to comply with her first boss and the interests of his client. Unfortunately, all other rational explanations are not possible. However, she decided to do so at a time when children and young people needed the support of the system most, even because too many had unfortunately not received it from their parents. At a time when home schooling became a rule instead of an exception, at a time that marked each one of us and the young because of restrictions, there was no minister anywhere at that time. It was, in fact, available abroad through videoconferencing. If I could afford some irony, we would say that instead of today's interpolation, we could declare the Minister of Education, in citations of course, “the wrong” person. Before the epidemic was declared, we listened to phrases that children and young people who are educated will be the last in the lockdown and the first for whom this lockdown will relax. But it was the opposite. When young people themselves publicly demanded their constitutional right to education, taking into account all measures to prevent the spread of infections, they were punished. The minister was mostly silent. She, by the way, was also in the blue about the first steps of entering the world of adulthood and then remained silent again. The silence in this case also means a continuous transfer of responsibility to the healthcare profession and a continuous position in the sense of "see, the decrees have been prepared by the Ministry of Health". We have also received this last one today in the full introductory explanation of the Minister. She has remained silent many times before and even since we received politically motivated proposals on the service extension of accreditations, on the equalization of general and professional graduation and on the reduction of general knowledge and on the equalization of what is unequal, on the maintenance and financing of private higher education institutions, on the closing of doors to foreign students due to the whims of the Interior Minister, and could also mention it. It is difficult to understand such radical movements, especially since we know Minister Kustec from some past times when her understanding of how to protect school space from partial political interests, left and right, was at a much higher level than today. Especially today, when it is apparent that concessions are being granted again in the form of political gifts to private higher education institutions or study programmes and their lecturers. Repeating the exercise from the time of the second Janša government, this time on the shoulders of Minister Kustec, who is silent or even advocating such moves. A few more words about school space management during the epidemic. When it was time for the school system to prepare thoroughly for this autumn's resurgence of the epidemic, which the medical profession had always predicted and expected, the minister would rather take a trip to the Tokyo Olympics in autumn for a meeting in Paris. After all this, we may not have focused our interpretations on the right person at all, since the ministry is obviously run by other people. At least the healthcare profession has tried and is still trying, officially or informally, to advise the Government on what measures would be most effective to contain the epidemic. That this government takes their opinion poorly is, of course, a completely different story. From the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and above all from a minister whose primary responsibility and duty is to care for the highest possible quality education, nothing. Almost literally nothing, except again audiovisual conferences and words about how hard we live. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport is also obviously unable to implement the views of the education profession, especially in times of crisis. It is unable to implement even some of its views on educational processes. Then we can only find out that we do not need such a minister in Slovenia. And as I pointed out at the outset, the consequences of this physical, virtual and, above all, mental absence of the Minister will be long-term. The entire generation of young people will be marked by limited social contacts, due to a number of psychological problems at lockdown and also marked by less quality education. If these facts are not important to ministers, they must be important to all of us. We can only hope that there has been a debate in Paris at least on why Slovenians, according to Eurobarometer research, have the worst opinion on scientists throughout the European Union. Most of all, we also consider scientists to be narrow - minded and immoral. Whether the debate on why schools have been closed in Slovenia for so long and with what consequences we will therefore have to face or how these consequences will be mitigated. Or a debate on how the epidemic affects our athletes and how the minister helped solve this part of the wider socio-epidemiological crisis. And we can only hope that the Minister has taken a position on these issues in Paris. If not, at least listen well to those who are proven to be much better based on numbers than we are. Dear Minister, for several years we have been party colleagues and many of us have been convinced that we are members of a party that advocates liberal values based on individual freedom. A few of us have come to realize that the party has recently abandoned several individuals who enjoy them as members of this government. And in this government, you have yourself completely submitted to the patriarchal discourse, where women are obviously expected only blind obedience. But the fact is that we know your way of thinking, and we are therefore convinced that you have been silent and silent as Minister even when you do not agree with the decisions that this government or its Paterfamilias is making on your own. And there were and there are still bad decisions, many of them. I'm sure the Minister is aware of a lot of what I said. Of course, we don't expect her to admit it publicly. However, I would like to propose to the Minister an action that would allow her to maintain at least some personal dignity – stand down before today's vote. That's how it would be. My colleagues and I, however, have no choice but to support the interpolation, otherwise, because it is justified in all seven points. Firstly: suspension of the duty to treat irresponsibly neglecting preparations for the new school year in well-known epidemic situations. Second: inadequate attitude towards the professional and interested public and inability to coordinate epidemiological measures. Thirdly: favouring partial political interests in higher education and science. Fourth: neglect of the sport area during the epidemic. Fifth: insufficient interest in the mental and physical health of children and young people. And lastly: Human resources exchanges that had to take place after the tip of the largest coalition party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u42	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Honourable colleague and colleague! Long before the epidemic, we have heard initiatives from several sides that the school system needs to be reformed. If we're real, everything from Gabra further and, above all, because of him, the school system only went down. Remember your childhood days when someone mentioned that they would need to see the principal, and at home, the wetness of the head began to soak. Now the kids are sending teachers to court because they're supposed to be harassed. If we were able to boast years ago that our schools produce the best staff, we can now read the devastating results for Slovenia in Eurostat. We're illiterate, we don't believe in Darwin's theory, but we believe in photosynthesis. The fact is that the reform of the school system is almost urgently needed, not because of the Minister of Inter-Better, but because of the mistakes made in the past. The epidemic has put a lot on our heads and put us all in a very difficult situation. Distance training was different for parents, children, and teachers. But with little adjustment to actual communication with school and other parents, long - distance schooling was tolerated. When I read interpolation, it really seems to me that we used to have great schools where there was no peer-to-peer violence, children went to all kinds of activities and schools in nature, had excellent equipment, school environment. Whether you like it or not, distance learning has moved a number of light years forward, all of which could not be agreed earlier in 10 years. Digitalization in schools proved necessary, and teachers also had to learn quickly what they had previously conscientiously rejected. If anything, this school has shown far away which teachers are part of their work and who have stayed for some time. Clearly, the teacher’s work did not only cover about 20 hours a week, as some think, but over eight hours a day. It also showed which teachers remained at the time of slides and slides, which are receptive to change and digitisation is not foreign to them. If I get dizzy, it's only on the evidence that the minister didn't give the order to open a new school year. Do you remember that in our time, windows were opened without the knowledge of politics, without the knowledge of parents, and we all survived, as I see now. Apparently, though, we would now like to ventilate schools with air - conditioned devices from friends so that someone else can earn money. So, what kind of instructions should the minister give to the schools? Do we not have subordinates or employees who have been in the ministry longer than she has? Some have been for at least 20 years. I'm not going to go into what kind of political option it is. Inevitably, you could list the nonsense that is written in this interpretation. Most of the readings come from the previous governments of ministers and employees at the Ministry. It is unrealistic to expect that a minister who had yet to face the epidemic would have solved the unresolved problems for years. For years, LGBT’s ideology has been subtly involved in schools through literature and the curriculum itself. For many years, schools face peer violence, but they tend to sweep under carpets. Albanian and Roma children intimidate our children, which they say is a compulsory part of growing up or schooling, at least that's what they think in St. There is a huge difference between schools in knowledge and approach to NPZ. In some schools, children are required to have high school knowledge when they share good grades in others as a joke, birds are already chirping. The fact that schools are competing about which school will have the best results at NPZ, we know. In a number of schools, poorer children were asked to stay at home when writing NPZ so that the results would be better. Do you remember that a few years ago he rounded the list of schools by quality, which was made on the basis of the NPZ? The problem is also that more and more children are focusing on high school and less on vocational or vocational schools. But here are the parents' appetites, that their child will be less valuable and that the environment will start to treat him slowly, as if they were being divided into smart and unwise. Today, the parents of every child who finishes primary school are already engaged in what high school he will go to so that he can enroll in college. As a result, higher education has been evaluated. This is an area that we should be talking about today, not some imaginary eyewitnesses. We should talk about why school standards have fallen, why kids with biology only meet in eighth grade, what happened to technology, sports education, households, ethics, and maybe there's something else we can find. Perhaps there is something else to be said about why the prices of work volumes in primary schools vary to up to 100 euros and how each school has its own type of textbooks. I will tell you now that the proposal you are preparing – that the number of representatives of political parties from three to five should be increased in the secular schools – will not be supported. Indeed, politics must not affect the choice of textbooks and the functioning of the school. Teachers are the ones who should choose appropriate work materials, eventually they work with children and are qualified to do so. If we have one material in the school in Krška, in Maribor, in Ljubljana, third, then the level of knowledge in the secondary school varies greatly. How, then, will a student who has gained less knowledge in primary school achieve similar success as his classmates? Some schools even say they don't need work volumes. Others acquire the most expensive ones they don't even need or use. At the Ministry we should ensure a uniform system of textbooks and work volumes throughout Slovenia. I have a feeling that some employees at the Ministry have lost their way, of course because they are being abused by the end of the sentence themselves. [[…]] Please don't interrupt me, Mrs. Sukičeva, when I have a point of view, for a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Sukich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u44	Mr President, it is your job to protect the integrity of this National Assembly when chairing a plenary session, as it is today. Therefore, I ask you to warn the Member who has enjoyed homophobia, xenophobia and racism in his position. Is Parliament a place for such statements, for such incineration? That's outrageous. So I ask you to act without being completely indolent there and you don't care. You are the one who must now protect the integrity of this council. I'm really asking you to warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u45	Dear Mrs Sukič, this is not a procedural proposal. This is where we leave our freedom of speech. But I call upon everything and appeal to all that we are respectful, as we say in our code. Thank you very much. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, there you go. Here you go, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u46	Your Honor, I repeat my request. Learn what freedom of speech is and what hate speech is. A hate speech is when you reach out to another’s freedom in a way that threatens him. What the Member has said is stimuli threatens certain minorities in society such as Roma, such as the LGBT community. This was all mentioned here in this position. And the level of this national council is unheard of. So I ask that you at least identify what freedom of speech is and what hate speech is. Because by this logic, I don't understand why we put what we gave in the Penal Code yesterday. Then anyone can say anything. But it's not that we were wise here yesterday and entangled with what are threats and what are no threats, but here we can afford an MP. The Member who once stated at the meeting that migrants should be given a shush in the head continues this same story today. So I'm asking you to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u47	Madam Member, I am in charge of this meeting and I am in charge of this. And if there are insults coming from which side, you know which way. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mrs Mojca Škrinjar I apologize, ma'am. Procedurally, Mr. Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u48	Mr President, you said very well, but I didn't hear a reminder from you. Because Mrs. Sukičeva could listen to what I said instead of using the computer and on the phone. I said, if this is the goal for Albanian children and Roma children to be disgusted and harassed by Slovenian children – if it is normal for her to work in school, then let her go to school and calm them down! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u49	Dear Member, this is not a procedural issue. Please and I call you all together, let's calm down the word treasure. Mrs. Boxer, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, respectable citizens and citizens! We already have another interview with Minister of Education, Dr. Simone Kustec. It was filed by some opposition parties with the first-signed Member, Dr Matey Vatovec. Interpellation does not differ significantly from the first interpolation. It is obvious that children, students, and students have been home too long to be permanently damaged by this, that inequalities have increased among them, that the minister had no plan to act at the beginning of the pandemic year. It is obvious that there were not enough computers for children at home, there were chaotic, unorganized distance learning, unsatisfactory communication, ministries with directors who had reported that they did not have a system to operate when there was no internet, what to do when the home environment was not supportive enough. The latter also taught SVIZ, the Education and Education Union, also pointing out that technical barriers should be placed in schools so that the virus would not be tolerated and proposed, as was already the case with all opposition parties, that schools should have adequate ventilation – artificial. In interpolation, a good part of the space is intended to convince the necessity of artificial ventilation in schools, it is evident that the Minister intervenes in the priorities of research in the absence of a ready-made Law on Scientific Research and that the Minister has shown a degrading attitude towards schoolchildren by having poor communication with them. In her reply, the Minister shall reject all allegations in a reasoned manner. Last but not least, the public has been monitoring its operation despite the overall failure of the central media to report on the control of the epidemic and government measures, as they have devoted much of their time to reporting and obstinately commenting on protests and resistance to action. It was this opposition that was today calling for a school without masks and cycling with protestors at a time when meetings were banned. We believe that the measures in educational institutions have been appropriate. Schools were taught remotely. So there's no way he's holding that there wasn't a lesson. The length of distance learning was comparable to the average in Europe. On the web is Unesc's website, where you can find the closure of schools or distance poker across the countries themselves. Slovenia is placed among the somehow average of Slovenian countries. If you look at it, Poland had 43 weeks of closed schools or distance learning, Lithuania 45, Czech Republic 46, Slovenia 47, while the countries in it were thus close to it even further. Bosnia and Herzegovina was closed for 49 weeks, Macedonia for 54 weeks. And we know that many workers also come from there, that there are still many migrations between the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Thus, the assessment of the condition of the pandemic or the condition of the sick is likely to be very similar in some area. For some time, it exceeded Slovenia after the closure of schools and Greece, and for Turkey the data is that it had 49 weeks of closed schools. Germany had 38 weeks of closed schools, i.e. less than Slovenia. But no one points out that this is nominal, but whenever anyone has been sick or positive in a department in Germany, the entire department has gone to quarantine. And this moment, when you see that 38 weeks have been closed, you also have to count down all those schools and departments that were extremely large when they were at home. So, statistics are statistics, but facts are facts. Germany, if you look at it, had very much time closed schools or departments. Then they say in the interpretation that schools and parents and children, students, students were not informed quickly enough about the course. The Ministry of Education has prepared a package describing the learning models that have been made available to every student. The choice of the model was based on the number of infections found and the decision for the model to be carried out could not be taken long before that finding. So you can't make a decision in June on how to teach on September 1st if you don't know what the situation in the epidemic will be. Everything has been prepared, everything has been said and the principals are to organise a lesson, to be prepared for all possible variants according to these models. A measure with technical barriers is also proposed in the interpolation, which would of course need to be further cleaned. In my opinion, however, students and students would not take these barriers well. We need to know that when we place these plastic barriers between students, students of the barriers, plastic barriers on the tables, we need to clean these plastic barriers every day after the completion of the lessons, like all the other surfaces, which means additionally – add more to the number of school benches the number of these partitions. It is impossible to clear it with this staff available at school, unless you hire once again such a number of cleaning staff. In addition, it is also unclear whether this is actually as effective as an effective mask that is on your face all the time. Of course, we think the mask measure was correct. However, we can only say that we have been hearing about this since the early spring and that this issue is repeated even in several committees in debates and also in interpretation. We therefore believe that this can even point to some signs of corruption. But why the rape? In the event of forced ventilation, we know that there is a need in the operating rooms and that this requires a large, large investment. In fact, if you have very simple ventilation, the virus can spread even faster than usual. So we need extraordinary top-notch technology in order not to achieve something completely different. Of course, this is not necessary in schools. It is not necessary because schools have a protocol for ventilation, this protocol is clear and the fact is that no one suffers as a result. Today's lesson is different. It's not mostly sitting, students, students are moving, they're, I guess, in some research mood, because that's the way it's supposed to be. But it is true that schools differ from one another, but all of them have teachers who come from colleges that are either in Maribor, Ljubljana or Koper and where programs are accredited and where teachers learn or students learn modern teaching methods. Those methods that we or our parents received were long gone. It was said that there were no studies on how they actually understood it or how they knew it, this closing of schools is known to our students and students. Of course it doesn't. National knowledge testing is the widest possible study since it is written by all students in the sixth and ninth classes. This national knowledge check has shown that knowledge is good and comparable to past years. Second test. The best analysis, and no one can do a better analysis, is prom – whether it's professional or general – and final exam. Everyone who finishes high school has to do it, otherwise they don't get a certificate. The prom showed good knowledge. Not in the end, but last but not least, there is something to be said about international competitions. The youth team of chess players has just achieved extraordinary success at the international level. So the lesson was different from that of some students and students who had feelings of loneliness, but it did not cause a gap in knowledge. It is clear that the Minister has not adopted enough normative acts. She said that the Kindergarten Act had been passed. She said that the Law on Children with Emotional Disorders had been adopted, and that the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education had been adopted, which had implemented the long-awaited decision of the Constitutional Court, which the previous governments had not been able to implement. And in the end, the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation was adopted yesterday. While the government of Marjana Sarca could not prepare him in a year and a half in a peaceful situation, the current minister, despite the epidemic and the continued obstruction of the opposition, prepared him and successfully led to the adoption of him in the National Assembly during the same period, i.e. by eclamation of all stakeholders. The law introduces, inter alia, the highest body, the Development Council, at national level, which, according to the fact that science is primarily financed by public funds, imposes on research institutes, through the Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia, also national important research tasks. Therefore, it is not unusual for the Minister to direct these tasks even during the covid period. The Minister also appropriately addressed the internationalisation of education, took care of the proper situation of sport and it is particularly important to highlight her concern for financing activities. Never before in the history of Slovenia has there been, and I think that, not since we were in the common country, but not at all, not so much funding has been devoted to this area, both for science and higher education and for primary education, secondary education and kindergartens and, last but not least, for sports infrastructure. There are €45.2 million in budgets for investments in kindergartens. It is 55 kindergartens in 55 municipalities. I repeat, the municipalities are obliged to provide the kindergarten infrastructure themselves, but the country can co-finance this. There's never been so much money for preschool education. By the way, let me also say and recall that parents who are now burdened with payments for the other and the next children in kindergarten will also be remembered. This is also the fruit of this mandate. Next. EUR 67.2 million is earmarked for primary education. Here too is the congregation that must establish the infrastructure itself. So it's supposed to build the buildings itself, but the country can – can – co-finance. This “may” has been seen in previous governments in this decade, where there has been no co-investment since 2012-2013. Today, there are 69 primary schools in 68 municipalities, co-financed by the State with €67.2 million under the mandate of the Minister, Dr Simone Kustec. Remember that! 1.7m euros is earmarked for investments in national education. It's two buildings in two municipalities. That's not much. 4.1m euros for investments in sports facilities. It is 50 buildings in 50 municipalities. In 2018-2021, 33.5 million were allocated to higher education and 9.7 million to research activities. Yesterday we passed a law whereby at least one percent of GDP will be devoted to science. This is truly a historic achievement, let's remember that! In this mandate, for the first time, after long-term requests for practice and the needs of the public of several entry points for medical and computer science studies, we did not have and do not have enough for the doctors we need. This government, this minister, has provided more entry. It is not expected that by importing other doctors from other countries we will be able to fill the gaps. Actually, there are language barriers. On the other hand, if our doctors leave for better wages in other countries, then doctors from countries where they have lower standards come to us. Are we wondering what will happen to their people there? So, the answer is not, have, import doctors, the answer is, train doctors. This was assured by a larger enrollment by the Minister and this government. We've heard about bad communication and even bad distance learning. This peaceful statement by Mr Aljaž Kovačič, who blew on his soul last spring, blew on the souls of teachers how well they taught. It's probably not nice that you change your mind like this for the sake of politics. The Minister's removal of the School of Directors is clear. First of all, the principal's school wasn't canceled. The school for principals was founded in the early 1990s, exactly in 1991, when the Institute of Education prepared a very high-quality course, a multi-week course for administrators, where they trained managers for both finance and communication, as well as didactics and working with people. From here on out, it was likely that it was good to have a special office — the director, secretary, and ficus — and to have a School of Directors. I truly extend my heartfelt greetings that this has returned to the wing of the Institute of Education. You need to know that there are more than 20,000 employees in primary school and more than 10,000 employees in secondary schools, a number that will soon be approaching about a thousand, and these are employed people in institutions that support education and education. This is the Institute of Education, this is the Pedagogical Institute, this is the Centre for Vocational Education, this is the School for Directors, this is the Andragog Center, this is the Republic Examination Centre, this is the Centre for Educational Activities. You see, a lot of this would still be good to join the Institute of Education, and I hope this is just the first step, because fragmented knowledge does no good to anyone. Just knowledge combined in one institution and synergy of ideas gives added value. The minister was told that she had done nothing to remedy the consequences of long-term schooling. We need to know that our schools have advisory services. That's not self-evident. By countries, even richer than us, they don't have as good a support service as we do. And the advisory service is the one that has to deal with vulnerable groups in school, with those who have problems both psychologically and socially. In this regard, projects are also under way at the Education Institute, which also supports this activity. So if you don't know that, that doesn't mean it's not there. In addition, we have the Children's Guidance Act with special needs. Even before the child is diagnosed as a child with special needs, he is treated by a school advisory service, and parents are also given instructions on which external institutions can target where they seek help. You have different counselling centers and you have both in the medical field and in the psychotherapist field. That's what all the advisory services do. If you don't know that, then that doesn't mean it's not there. So I can say that, if anything, this government's greatest attention was directed directly to education – besides health care. If I go to see how the parents and teachers and everyone is satisfied with the Ministry's actions. See, if parents, teachers, and schools were largely dissatisfied, and the instructions would not be sufficient, then the tests that went out yesterday or before would not have gone as well. We witnessed a general, unargued claim. A few opinions are repeated. Now, if you'll allow me to make a comparison. If you're watching, if you do a play in the theater, there's 500 people there. If you make this play and make a movie, millions see it. If you say a statement by a few administrators and then repeatedly repeat it, make it a so - called spin, then it seems to be hundreds of administrators, hundreds of teachers. In the end, we find out only about one unbalanced director who says there is no co-vide, we eventually find out about two, one or two teachers or teachers who spread the magic spell on Facebook and think that there is no co-vide and then generalize it with repeated claims on how many hundreds. That's not true! We have 500 primary schools, we have – so round, not exactly – 200 secondary schools, we have 200 kindergartens, we have 3 universities, we have over 1,000 management cities. And now it is unfair to attribute to all these people the same opinion. That's not true! A few parents, some principals – I think even the crowd is hard to talk about, maybe even more about a double – make these opinions general and say that there is no communication. The secretary communicated with the principals through their leadership. You need to know that he can't communicate with 900 principals or thousands at the same time, but he's communicating with their representatives. Hence, they are also principals’ associations, as well as parental associations. The Minister is an advocate of women's rights, and I particularly appreciate that about her. It's liberal, which I appreciate. But it's obviously a thorn in someone's heel, one who loves more one mind: but one mind has never led to development, much more to totalitarianism. At the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport there were few women among many ministers, and there were very few times against the age of men. A well-known psychiatrist says that the moral makeup is predominantly male and compassion is female. I think that, too, we cannot exactly generalize it, but it is true that the Minister is a patient, kind woman whom the opposition is putting on the ground for the second time and trying to break it. That's unseemly for me. And that indecisive intention must be rejected. I don't think any minister or minister in this situation would be able to work. Hard work, difficult decisions, weighing between the medical profession and the teaching profession is not easy. Instead of all of us Members on behalf of citizens and citizens, I would like to thank you for all the patience and work that the Minister has put forward with her team, with the Secretary of State and with all the directors who are at the Ministry. And, of course, given what I have contact with the principals at the end of the day, I can say that they are also satisfied with these exchanges that you mentioned as problematic. I think they can appreciate that every day they're welcome on the phone, that people are answering their calls to answer that. And that's right. Of course, the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support this interpretation. And we would still have much good to say about the ministry's work, we just want things to go on so that digitisation, which has started very well, will continue in this way, and that the lesson will be able to preserve those good sides, which, however, have also been acquired in the course of distance learning. So the Slovenian Democratic Party does not support this interpretation in any way and we will vote unanimously against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. The first shall be given the floor by the representative of the Magi's proposer. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, fellow Member and fellow Members! We've heard everything and stuff, but first I might be relying on this part of you when you point out, Minister, and I'm glad you're finally starting to think about the role of women in politics. Above all, in view of this government's position so far, especially the President of the Government and others, I would expect you to be such a great struggle for women's rights that you would have responded to it in the past and what you would have said in the past. Above all, this government has only two ministers, which is very small, but this is not the biggest problem. The problem is that the top representatives of this government act very, very resilient to women in politics and beyond. And I will show you here, for example, what your great boss, Prime Minister Janez Janša, tweets on Twitter about journalists, women: "On one side of the public house are offering cheap services to serviced prostitutes Eugenia C. and Mojce P. S., one for 30, the other for 35 euros." Madam Minister, did you respond to this when this was published? You're looking at the floor, and I'd be looking at the floor. Or, for example, an example of a president of an organization that is in the public interest of this government, a fascist organization: “Tanja Fajon, the bitch that needs to be eliminated. Also Aloyza Beznik and the prosecutor. ” “All anti-State elements.” [[…]] [[…]] You know, Madam Minister, this is the relationship of this government and its February to women, and you have been silent as a mouse, and you are silently supporting this, as you are silently supporting everything else that is happening in the country in the past year and a half. And this is you who led the party's parliamentary group in the previous term, which came to Parliament with a programme that was mainly based on setting different standards in politics and society. And you, the former leader of this SMC party's parliamentary group, which was the largest, far largest party, for four years, the left- centred party, you hope — I will literally say now — spit on the previous governments, how they have done nothing for education or how it has never been done as well as in this mandate. Not to say that I don't mention that you jump at every command, man orders, John Janša's orders. So much for this and your stalemate about the role of women and so on. Not to mention the area of human rights when it was one of your core substantive themes or areas in your professional work. Leave it, let it speak to the women of bitches, but I don't know what, prostitutes, you allow them to insult minorities and so on; all so that you can sit in this place for another month or two or so, or even if there are six. Sad, sad. We can relativize for six months, but this country is huge, too. Now perhaps I could return to the question of interpolation and also your responses. I mean, you didn't say anything, but you really didn't say anything. Nothing. They've prepared a powerpoint or a presentation. The first part was obviously done at the NIJ and you were talking about some general things, otherwise important about the health situation, you would expect the Minister of Health to say this or maybe, I don't know, the director of the NIJZ, but in the second part you picked up from the Directorates of the field what happened in the last year at the Ministry – I know how to do this because I was on this ministry myself – and you put this together in a collage and you presented these things. However, you did not provide specific answers to the questions from the interpretation. You haven't given one, but not one. If we go in order. About a year and a half ago, or now almost two years ago, since you took over the leadership of this country with Janez Janša, this coincides, literally coincides with the outbreak in the Republic of Slovenia. From then on, it can be seen that for this government, education is one of the foreign and irrelevant subjects and the democratic opposition has been warning you to wake up and start dealing with the issue of education. By the way, what did you do? Let's think back a little. You have been in school, despite the fact that the whole of Europe warns that closing schools is a very serious damage to entire generations, you have decided to close schools first in front of all the other things and have opened them last in both the first and third waves. In particular, the second and third waves were the most critical. We've been warning the opposition all along, sticking to the principle that schools close the last ones and open the first ones. What did you do? It was written a year ago when it began to open at this time with a poor epidemiological picture of a hairdresser's salon, a store, a bunch of other service activities, and schools remained closed. One of the longest periods in Europe was closed. I will not say the longest, this is also a different way of monitoring this data, different methodologies, but one of the longest closure periods in Europe we have had in Slovenia. It's true that you always fix us, that it wasn't closed schools, but it was a distance lesson. But you know, this teaching really can't be comparable to live learning in school spaces. When the schools finally opened, however, during the last month of May, we warned the opposition that it was necessary to prepare conditions for schools to remain open and, above all, that schools would be safe for students attending classes. We followed only recommendations from abroad. One of these was the need to establish appropriate ventilation, from which Mrs Škrnjar is always making a fool, even though European experts point out that this is one of the most effective ways to prevent the spread of the virus. Not to mention when you talk about how viruses are transmitted at protests and so on. One of 7,000 cases of infection happens in the open and everything else in the indoors and mainly due to poor ventilation. Now say - and Madam Minister, I want you to specifically answer these questions - why nothing has been done in this area. Why didn't some funds be provided, even with the amendments, we tried to get this thing into the budget in the opposition, and there was no listening to it? Now I don't know what the real reason is. Has ignorance or senseless revenge or not come from the right side? Second thing. Barriers, physical bulkheads. This is about the things we have here at the National Assembly after the restaurant, the offices and so on, you didn't guarantee these things in schools. The biggest problem is that you have not cooperated with the school staff in coordinating the measures. It's all happening and it's still happening and when a few days, a good week before the start of this school year, you were gone, you were lost in space, and the school profession didn't know how, in a way, you couldn't even answer whether or not the school was going to start. And then when we saw that things were really going in the wrong direction, we decided to reinterpellate. It's been a few months now. And you know what I'm gonna tell you? In order to be able to submit at least five more interpretations in all this time, due to all the bad things that have happened or, above all, what has not happened on your part at the Ministry of Education. And then we listen here to a lot of SDS representatives and you, how you coordinate with the interested public, with the unions, with the schoolchildren, that you can't go with every teacher, principal in particular, to meet with management companies and so on. Yes, obviously we do live in two parallel worlds! This is like listening to Novo24TV or listening to government representatives when we talk about energy poverty, about people freezing over the winter to help them, and they talk – also your fellow minister, the president – about the fact that there is no harm in monitoring things, but when the time comes, we will intervene. Apparently, we do live in parallel worlds. For example, you and your Members, Mrs Škrynjar, are talking about how the dialogue is going great and everyone is yelling, the entire professional public, that there is no dialogue. You haven't met with the SVIZ, Madam Minister. But that's not true? This is President Branimir Strukelj or the Secretary-General. I don't know where this dialogue is after who this dialogue is. Maybe some new unions are established, like New University, just new unions, Nova24TV and so on. So the situation is very, very bad, not good. Very, very bad. And now, a few days ago, we were back on the stand when the decrees changed again overnight about school self-testing. Please don't get me wrong. Social Democrats have no objection to measures that protect the safety of students and students, and we call on the Social Democrats to be vaccinated. But the problem is that you, with your confusion, are encouraging yourself to ensure that citizens and citizens do not adhere to measures and that we have one of the lowest divisions of society in Europe and in the world. And what is the result? I've talked about this before, I'd rather not repeat it, but yesterday we exceeded 5,000 victims of the Coronavirus. What I'm saying is that now you've shown again a few days ago how you don't know how to talk and consult the professional public in the field of education. I'm sure if we sat together, together the NIJ, the schoolchildren and you, if we weren't abroad at some, you're saying, a very important meeting to be able to talk. And fortunately, also because of the high level of involvement of the students, the issue was well done, and this test was somehow glassy, with the exception of rare exceptions, things were very flattering, but here goes the thanks to the schoolchildren and the schoolgirls. I'd like to show you, too, I'm the father of a second-grader, see if you'll just understand what this is all about. Why are we in the opposition angry and many more than citizens and citizens? The last circuit of one of the schools in Ljubljana, where my son goes, was received from the Ministry – it is written here that I will say exactly – 16.53 in the evening, the day before the implementation of the new measures, is said to be self-testing in schools. And then you find it strange that parents are confused, that parents are confused, and that this may even cause harm to their children. But it doesn't seem strange to me. But you know. And not to mention that many of the schoolchildren, many times principals, even the assets of Ljubljana’s principals have invited you and asked you to meet me. Then you met and also promised that for the first triad you would, however, stop this self-testing in schools and allow for home self-testing, which, in my opinion, was even safer, but I do not want to go into professional measures. But it'd probably be safer if you got infected outside of school. But as it is said, this is a matter of profession, this is a matter of agreement that should be made through dialogue between you, Madam Minister, the school professional public and health professionals, says the NIJZ. Even the Mayor of Ljubljana has been promised that you will hear this request from all Ljubljana schoolchildren and that, however, at least temporarily for the first triad, a different system of testing will be introduced. But we understand how this works. Then you go to the boss, the man, and the boss, the man, tells you how it's done and it's done. And you can't just walk away, 'cause the silence says it all. [[…]] I'd say institutionalized silence in a way. So, Madam Minister, this part is very problematic, this part of non-participation with stakeholders, disobedience, absence, your absolute absence, you are nowhere to be. Thus, I can repeat the sentence that we used in the previous interpolation, but it seems as if since March, when the two epidemics have taken over Slovenia, we no longer have the Minister of Education. And that's very sad. But it's not the only area that's a problem or dealing with an epidemic, and it's your lack of cooperation with a professional. Yesterday we were informed from the media, although I thought it was satirical news that the Government had taken a decision to tender concessions for private higher education institutions again in the evening. Now those who do not know the last concessions have been awarded in the first Janša government, and then the other Janša government has tried to do so, and the Court of Auditors has given its opinion that until the conditions are regulated by law and the criteria for granting these concessions are more clearly defined, the case is highly controversial. It called on the Ministry to first correct the terms and conditions, and then it can only be re-scheduled. But when we look more closely at what kind of concessions, what kind of programs, it's quite clear from space, it seems that this is a strong suspicion of corruption risks. In fact, you sign college programs where applicants or conditions are exclusively people close to the government or close to the largest party, the government's SDS and Janez Janša. Here I can say in particular, it is Mr Rončević's Faculty of Journalism and Media, which implements the same programme as the Public Faculty of Social Sciences and where, according to experts' reports, there should be enough vacancies, but for example, you have awarded a concession for this programme, which only Rončević and no one else, because there are no others. And not just that! First you had a few more cities for the first stage, then the Secretary of State, Mr Slavinac, who is also sitting here, after intervention – now exactly what happened, I don't know, you'll say – he crossed out a document with a number of 30 and fixed it to 60. Now I can be wrong about the numbers, but he's doubled the number of cities to a second degree. Another such direction is the direction of health care, the call for a health programme implemented in public colleges, but it is also implemented by Ludvik Toplak School, again a friend and a major supporter of SDS and SLS, which are more than not connected. And despite the fact that the cities in public colleges are enough, he will obviously get the resources for the implementation of the programme to be financed by the State; and for an unlimited period of time. Since one of the Court of Auditors’ observations was that it was necessary to lay down, in addition to the criteria, a limit to the duration of the concession should also be clearly laid down. But these things are not clearly defined. And look, Mrs Simona Kustec, since you did this one day before the interpolation, there are two possible explanations. The first is that you wanted to buy the votes of the SDS's biggest party, and the second is that you're obviously already making your way forward after the end, almost to the end, I'll call it, the ministerial mandate. In fact, I believe that after all that you have done "for public education and public higher education", you will find it very difficult to interact with colleagues at the Faculty of Social Sciences. Thus, on this issue, this morning we have taken the initiative of the Commission to prevent corruption to verify the possible suspicions of corruption risks in this regard. However, I would like to ask, Madam Minister, that, in particular, this matter, which is in some way being indirectly dealt with by interpolation, you have an absolute response. As we know, this is not the first such case of candy or private gifts. You did the same in one of the PKPs when, on behalf of helping to overcome the problems of the epidemic, it was intended to provide funds or to allow the financing of the University of Jambrek, without extending accreditation, for one more year, which even the Constitutional Court found absolutely unacceptable. You also have time for various ideological inputs, I would call this, for example, the Theology programme is one of the most important, you especially finance it as a special program. New24TV enabled you to promote your quiz after school this April, where it shows its version of historical truth and historical events from 30 years ago and so on. On the other hand, you obviously don't even know how many employees you have in your ministry. In fact, you previously operated on a number to save the Slovenian school system together with 700 colleagues and to take security measures in this way. Let me tell you, there are 300 employees at the Ministry, but if you count public institutions with them, a little over 500. In short, we've highlighted a bunch of things that we expected to get answers to, and we haven't received any answers, except that you were trying to make a sacrifice and show how the democratic opposition is attacking you because you're a woman. An absurd argument, you know. That's an absurd argument! So much for now. Thank you very much. But I'm sure I'll respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The second representative of the proposer, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman! I think it makes sense to point out or respond to a few of the arguments, in the introductory or in the opinion of the Minister, because they were not so many responses, some of the arguments in this introductory reply. First key question: Where are you? The secretary said not to wonder where she'd be in the next few weeks because she's going somewhere again. We're not asking where the minister is, but it's just a problem that he's everywhere, just where he's supposed to be, not. Once again, when preparations were made for the start of this year's school year, the Minister was rather in Tokyo than in Slovenia to coordinate things. Then, at the end of August, the principals waited for appropriate instructions and models, and this was in vain. They got here just before they were introduced, so they could start a new school year. The same situation was now before this self-testing was introduced. The Minister at a time that was obviously very critical in view of the fact that we have been so busy with the situation that a relatively high number of people who do not trust the measures do not trust science and do not trust the recommendations of the profession, it was expected that even with the mention of the self-testing of students in schools in fact will be some resistance, which unfortunately is now understandable because for one and a half years the Government has been more than trying to discourage people from taking protective and preventive measures regarding covida than to encourage them to take them into account. In this case, she was once again abroad, in Paris, instead of trying to talk to principals, principals and others, talk, not just listen to them or watch them, talk to them and find out what would be a better solution or if needed. The problem with all of these matters is how the government deals with it. I mean, about this self-testing, changes in the typology of masks that are allowed in schools. I was monitoring that press conference of the Minister of Health. I think it was first announced at 7:00 p.m., on Friday night, it happened around 10:30, and then this information went on. So you, for example, ordered the children to wear surgical masks or FF52 masks, as of next Monday. Then we came back into a situation where no one got these masks because they were either sold out or because we had one working day in between so we could go buy these masks and then there was a instruction, no, because it's okay, this week let's use those of the goods and so on. And these are the things that cause confusion. It's no problem, I guess, we're wearing all the surgical masks or the FFP2 masks, and if that helps, we'll help. But the way you postulate with this is that in the middle of the night you take some decision that comes into force the next day – I mean, it can't work in any way. It was similar with those circles before and so forth. As Marko has already said, we have received from the school three different, four different circuits in four days. Then comes the extra circuits by the music schools. Then they have records to fill out and so on. And this all happens within a few days, but none of these measures are considered; they are not consistent with the whole reality of the school space. If you were to listen to people who teach, teach, and organize primary school education, there would probably be much more to be saved and much less to be desired. With these things that you do in this way, there's total chaos. As I understand it, it was also one of the demands of the former Director of Primary Education. It is said that all circuits, all instructions coming from the Ministry, are accurate, filigree, very well-founded and determined. What happened to this director of the department? He's gone. And it was replaced by another person whose competences are questionable and political connections are much more appropriate. As far as those answers are concerned, the Minister says a bunch of tables of graphs, numbers and so on tells them the answers but look, these numbers don't mean anything by themselves. [[…]] [[…]] To talk about the number of computers purchased, the number of investments in schools, the number of meetings, as I said earlier in this response to interpolation, is five, six pages of Excel tables and records, how many meetings have happened. The key question is, which of these meetings came out. If these meetings were effective, if they were actually constructive, if a dialogue were to take place at these meetings, they would probably have different buy-ins, different results. This list on the six pages, sorted chronologically by meetings held at the Ministry of Education, speaks of the fact that they were obvious — I suppose — without connection. Because if not, we would not always have a response from school participants after any major meeting or a larger situation in the field of education, which goes something like this: "We have not received a single concrete answer. We didn't know anything. As many bluffs as there is now in our ministry, there has not been one." And so on. We are hearing all the time that we currently have at the Ministry one of the worst leaderships, that things together still hold the "Middle management" or official office, which has been at the Ministry for years and years and is a total disaster. And there's this cognitive dissonance. On the one hand, and in another debate, when Mr Kangler defended himself there, I explained that, in fact, you have completely lost contact with reality in this government. You have painted in your ivory tower some kind of idyllic ideal world, where everything counts because the Prime Minister of the Government is the best and you all follow him and judge him as the best. On the other hand, you can't look out the window of this ivory tower because of course it doesn't. But outside, if we went out, we would see what was going on; we would see what the actual situation was between people and what their particular problems and problems were. Even in schools. If you'd listened to the SVIZ, which has been trying for a year and a half to set up a group to coordinate all the measures, things would have been better. If you listen to the administrators on certain matters and try to reach a common denominator. I am not saying that all the demands of managers are likely to be good or feasible, but that some knowledge and skills are likely to have, which would be worth listening to, would also be better and so on. And then we wouldn't be in these situations where we are and we're forced to put them in this interpolation for the second time. Once again, I would like to point out that we are not only in the terrible left opposition, but you have even a school field that warns against these things, if we exclude now the administrators, teachers and so on, you have people who are involved in teaching, education and so on who are exposing certain problems in this area. So I can never agree that this is a naked political issue, but we need to talk about the specific problems that are taking place at the Ministry, and these specific problems are not exclusively politically oriented; in a certain part, as Marko said – they are said to be in staffing, favouring certain parties associated with institutions and people – but you have one part of this resource that is neglected. And that's the key problem, and that's what we're putting out in interpretation. Not that this option does so, that is exactly what this person or this minister is doing, but her incompetence. This is a problem, not the wrong side in this House or the wrong side in politics. So much for these numbers that don't say anything in themselves. However, we would need to, and I call here, because several times in this response to interpolation there are claims that some control has been carried out through the epidemic, that things are under control and that there are also opportunities for development, we have learned something from this epidemic. I would expect specific studies and analyses on educational flaws that have occurred, but I would like to see these figures, on achieving learning goals, on rash, on the mental state of children, on deepening inequality and so on. These are the numbers that we should talk about, and these are the graphs that we should look at on that board, not the number of meetings, but how the epidemic has been going on since it started. Because these numbers would then be the basis for the preparation of a compensation plan for these flaws. Such a plan can only be drawn up on the basis of some support from the pedagogical profession, staff and financial support from the Ministry. This would be expected as a minimum after the first experience with the impact the epidemic has on education. One more statement. Politics doesn't have room in schools. Okay. We can look at this thing in different ways, and I'll completely banalize it. I agree, so we are talking about interpellation in the National Assembly, not in some primary or secondary school, but this statement is gradually moving away from reality again. School is a place where politics has a certain influence. We know that the state influences what happens in schools in one way or another, and these pressures at school take place by policy also in other ways, from the outside, if we can say, not from the city, from reporting the country, but through other circuits. This is again about how this government exerts great pressure not only on public primary education but also on public higher education. But here again maybe just a question and here I would really like an answer to that. If politics has nothing to look for in schools, I would like to know why the Ministry has not formally defined itself until the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party for amendments to the ZOFVI, where the influence of representatives of the founders in the holy institutions is increased, so that in fact the representatives of the policy, the policy, the greatest influence, and representation in the holy institutions are taken to the employees. This is once, I think it was at your previous interpretation, Mrs. Škrynjar, that predicted that they would go to the SWITZ, that they would go to the teachers, and that they would go to change the sacred institutions. If this is not an eminent policy intrusion into an authority at a public primary school or a student's home, and so on, which is just the autonomy of this area, which represents a body that, say, appoints directors and so on, then I don't know what would be more eminent about policy intrusion into education. I would really like to hear the Ministry's definition here, given that the Government has not given an official opinion on this law, but it does not need it, but it is very unusual that it does not. On the committee itself, when this law was considered, there were some other signals. As the last of this initial phase, once again, with regard to this final defense of the Minister. I really don't want to, I don't want to use the struggle for women's rights and such an important topic as sexual inequality in society, for some pathetic attempt at defence, which ultimately takes place on what chromosomes we have. This is too important a topic in this country, still, unfortunately, and will have to stay, and has room to debate elsewhere, not at this interpretation. What is a key problem and the questions raised by this interpretation have nothing to do with the sex. A minister or a minister who could act in the same way as Minister Kustec could be a man could identify himself as a person for whom another social form of sex is irrelevant. What I stress once again is that damage is done in the field of education, in the field of sport and so on, and this damage has nothing to do with the sex of the person occupying the city, the current Minister of Education or the Minister of Education. Here we see another powerful influence of this logic of this government, which turns every critic into some self-defense and the role of the victim. After all, there was, of course, much excitement about the claim that schools were closed. Looking at data for the European Union. You have an Unesca website – now I have a short Branko Grims moment – you have a total length of school closure, on the UNESCO website. With dark blue, you do not see the best, because there is not enough big picture, you have painted some countries, including Slovenia. With dark blue, countries with closed schools have been colored for more than 41 weeks. If you go then, on the computer it works better, with a mouse pointer on Slovenia, you will get information that schools were closed together for 47 weeks. And this is the largest in the European Union during this period. Of course, it depends on what data is to be seen. The Minister states in his reply the data from Our World and Data; but even if we go from about another time period, even if we go about unifying this data, the fact remains that Slovenia was among the countries that had the longest time closed school. As we have heard several times, they closed first, they opened last, while Mr Restoring, for example, sandwiches were eaten in Prlecia. And that's absurd, and that's the problem that the Minister of Education is not able to stand up for his field. Yeah, about that. Finally, there are other things that, of course, indicate that we have serious problems. Today, if you take two newspapers with today's date into your hands, you have on one hand, as we have already heard, public money to private colleges, a story about how yesterday at the government's meeting a tender for the award of concessions to private institutions, higher education institutions, which are, see the fragment, precisely those private higher education institutions associated with the SDS party. Second thing, the State General Prom Board, how an janchoologist becomes chairman of the commission. The current president, or now she is no longer present, the current president of the commission is retiring, the moment a letter comes from the University of Maribor, where she was employed, that she should be removed from the commission, because she is no longer employed there, then there is a shorter ping-pong with a commission that says that she does not, otherwise, because she has retained the title of associate and that she will remain. And then what happens? The Ministry is going to amend the decision adopted by the previous Ministry in 2020 and replace the names. However, the lady who is now wanted to be dismissed or thrown out of the State Commission for a general graduation is replaced by another person who is more suitable for this function. Who is this man? The man who mentored 20 degrees and doctoral assignments on the subject of character and work by Janez Janša. I think so! We're crazy, I don't know what's going on! And these are the situations that are problematic in this country. And the symptom is that this kind of thing happens at the Ministry of Education and that the minister works like nothing happens, like it's all okay. To this, I think that we must today, not only as Members, who, by the Constitution, are answering us here in the National Assembly, but I think that the Slovenian public also deserves answers to these questions and to these dilemmas, because, if, in my opinion, the majority of ministers in this government have a very negative opinion in the public, but if any of the ministers or ministers in this government, who can unify the people at one point, and that is, in keeping with their work, it is the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In order to avoid going back to certain fundamental issues raised at the beginning of the presentation of opinions which are, of course, linked to the content of the interpretation, I will provide these clarifications. However, I find that there have been quite a lot of content that is now open, but it does not belong to the content of the interpretation itself. So I advise you, mechanisms more than you know how you can also get answers to all the other many questions that you have not raised in the content of the interpretation itself. The first question that was open and still needs clarification is clearly how it was communicated and co-operated before the start of the new school year. First of all, let me remind myself that I, myself, spoke to the children on the last day of the school year, and was also present in the media with information that they should rest, that they should spend their holidays well, that in the meantime we will also do our homework, so that they can safely return back to the school bench on September 1st and after model B. It's a verifiable fact. Wherever you go, you will find these written or video recordings. And then what really happened in the middle? By the way, I had four days of summer vacation on my own during this time. What has been going on in the meantime? Under the coordination direction of the Slovenian Institute for Education, their Director, this publication was prepared jointly with us and with NIJZ and the groups of directors and directors for individual departments. We also announced at that time that she would be refreshed, that there would be, in particular, a great deal of the best and most useful of the experience that we had with the implementation of the publication itself, of the wise publications that applied to the previous school year, and that, of course, there would be only a framework for teaching while the crown 19 was with us, and it would remain on these foundations. So that there will be no dramatic changes, but that, as we say, there will be only positive refreshments, what has proved to be good. In this publication, as well as in the preparatory process, which took place from the end of June to the first half of August, they participated – they were listed here, even before the indicator began, namely, principals and directors as representative representatives of the principal types, who then somehow guided each of them on this professional side of the guidelines on the basis of all the experience, as said last year. So, primary school principals, high school principals, school principals, primary school principals with adapted programs and institutions, kindergarten principals, music school principals, and – as it were said – because it is a specific period related to the virus – also representatives of the NIJ profession. Also in the publication, if you have been paying attention, professional contributions have also been published, focusing on this aspect of psychosocial status and the approach to teaching. When this work was at the site, of course, even at that time, it was the beginning of August, re-checked and coordinated at the AVK meetings, at which we also agreed to organize special meetings immediately after the directors return from their deserved annual leave. The request was made for these meetings to be organised in such a way that all directors could have the opportunity and the opportunity to participate in these meetings and to do so. It was said, of course, after 15. 8. when they come back from vacation. Let me say that it was on those days when this agreement was finally concluded that the representatives of the principals and principals were mostly advertised from the sea. So they interrupted their annual vacation, which apparently they were at at a time when the work was also taking place in cooperation, as it were said, with them. Then, of course, we followed the call of this meeting, the AVK meeting, at which, as we say, we called all the principals of primary schools, all the principals of kindergarten and all the principals of secondary schools. I made this call myself, and I signed it on Thursday, and I remember it very well, as if it were yesterday, but on Friday I got the symptoms of covido. That was the only reason I couldn't be there at this meeting because I was so sick, I couldn't even get out of bed in those first days. If I'm to blame, I understand, on your side, but once again, it was not possible physically. However, I have a strong team with which we work together at the Ministry and it was equally competent to hold these meetings: the State Secretary of Orehvec, responsible for preschool education, primary school, secondary school, music schools, adult education, special needs education, and the State Secretary of Slavinac for higher education. And things were running. The dialogue was always there. What happened for the first time was reliable in the history of the Slovenian educational system, but I think even at all, we were able with the help of AVK technology in fact to have meetings with just all representatives, individuals and individuals who wanted to attend this meeting. Then we kept saying that. As soon as I got better, we continued such AVK meetings, and we had last week. In the meantime, meetings, which, as it is said, are equivalent, competent and with all my powers, may also be chaired by State secretaries, directors of competent departments or sector heads, because these are people who are working on these content in an operational, professional manner every day. What I want to say in this regard. The last AVK, which we had with representatives of principals and principals of primary schools, was attended by over 800 individuals and individuals involved in this meeting. Anyone who wanted a constructive and dialogueal culture to get to the word had the opportunity, had the opportunity to ask questions on the subject at which the meeting was convened. About 400 were such participants and participants at a meeting of high school principals and over 500 at a meeting of participants and participants, principals and school principals. All of this is kept in records, all of the contents and the contexts themselves, that is possible to look at at at any time. In addition, representatives of trade unions and, in the case of primary schools, representatives of parents are also invited. And this is now a new way, a new approach that we have introduced in communication, and especially in these very difficult times, I assess that this is a necessary and very positive measure and approach. Today we have re-established this AVK meeting with the principals of secondary schools, probably at this very time. On Wednesday, however, the AVK meeting with the principals and principals of primary schools was also called. At a very operational level, where the central theme is, of course, experience, open questions, clarifications related to the current implementation of the current measures contained in the current decree. There we get a number of initiatives, many also requests, which, of course, are then passed on as resource representatives to the consultative group and forward to the government. And through dialogue and with respect for and respect for the health and epidemiological profession and their assessment of the situation, then we make joint decisions. This is the way, as it is said, that is established, that works well and we will continue to implement it as such. The following is the case, other forms of covid measures or types of covid measures. Oh, now I have to do this. Is there any way you can give me this big screen? [[…]] Can someone get a dia projection in there? [[…]] This is a question that you were still interested in regarding communication. In addition, you said, circuits and all the other content, which, if I understand correctly, you also learned from the annexes. Measures during covid-19 epidemic. For all of this, up until the end of October 2021, €133.4 million has been earmarked for co-operation measures in the field of education and education and our department. If we follow individual measures, you will see that the most funds allocated to kindergartens, almost 50 million euros, for the area of higher education, including single solidarity allowances for students, 24.5 million, for secondary education, 18.3 million euros were paid to primary schools, 13.9 million euros to institutions with special needs, 9.3 million euros to students' homes, 2.9 million euros to students' homes and 5.8 million euros to students' homes. If you are interested in even more specific specifications for something in particular, of course I will also explain this to you, but you can also see this in the following tables. I do not know if we have the opportunity to give Members access to this powerpoint. I would like to ask and propose, if possible through the system, to do so, through the national council – thank you very much – so that you can also access it and take a close look at it. As you can see, more or less we expose measures related to wage supplements, parental pay losses for kindergartens, protective equipment, what you were particularly interested in, then drop out of non-disclosure resources for secondary education institutions, and for the loss of income for student homes, ICT equipment, outage, other public services and so on. The specific issue was also related to the issue of means of protection for air-cleaning devices as well. Under these measures, the Ministry has been providing funds for the purchase of protective equipment to operators in the fields of education, education and science all the time. The institutions may also use these means to purchase air-cleaning devices to prevent covid-19 infections, of course if they decide to do so. So far, 11.1 million euros have been paid for these purposes. According to the information I obtained, schools have not yet made full use of these funds. At the same time, I would point out in particular in relation to these co-financing of large-scale investments across the country, not only to increase these funds, but also to the fact that in these reforms and new constructions of school, kindergarten buildings co-financed by the state budget, all these buildings are, of course, also designed according to all modern building standards, which means that care is also to ensure an adequate ventilation system is an integral part of such investments in kindergarten or school buildings. As far as concern and attention is concerned about mental health. Content important for the maintenance and strengthening of mental health, as has been recognised and financially supported in this connection: the work of advisory workers, the work of the classroom, the hours of sports, additional professional assistance, additional supplementary education, extended student residence, the education of professional workers, the teacher in the student home, the operation of professional centres, this is also one of the new measures or institutions, thanks to your constitutional support for the law for children with behavioural and emotional problems, the operation of institutions with special needs, the project work with children and young people with mental disabilities, the shorter programmes for preschool children not included in kindergarten, Roma assistants, the co-financing of development departments in kindergartens. As I have shown you before, the resources for activities that are important for maintaining and strengthening the mental health of children and young people amount to EUR 2021 311 million and EUR 38 000. In other words, it is an annual sum higher than the funds allocated to the entire area of higher education. So much so that you get a little feeling and also see what the difference is compared to 2019. This is the year when there was no covida. And here's the cut of the way in which these funds are then being used. So many explanations that I consider to be really important that we do not continue to debate these issues all the time, and I ask them to take the facts as facts. However, I would still like to give some responses to your assessments, to your feelings, just because I somehow explain. All my activities are public, they are transparent, which means that for all my activities there are notes, there are records, and when I'm abroad, you have available in AVK format on their websites at any time, so that you can make sure not only that I was there, but especially what I was doing there and what I was saying. It shall apply to Unesco, to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and shall also apply to all other international activities. If you want, you can also get even more detailed programming obligations to see that abroad, if you think I'm going on trips, then God help us, if that's the way you'll feel about your mission if you have this opportunity to do so. Just because you can't hear me doesn't mean I'm silent, and if you can't see me doesn't mean I don't exist. It's very up to you. It is also very dependent on the media you are monitoring, so despite everything, if you are really interested, whenever we are available, we will tell you where I am and what I am doing. As for your comments on how you treat women. Here, in annex 18 to interpolation, you can read expressions, assessments, views that are generally anonymous but very close to certain groups, individuals and individuals. So much so that you can see why I think — and it's also right — that we start talking about it. We are talking today about the content of the interpolation; what you wanted to talk about. If you have any other desire to talk about these issues, I am certainly taking the initiative to do so, but today we are sticking to the content of my interpretation and in this connection the responses of anonymous or nomad individuals and individuals to how they perceive me. Now I'm going to take your words from the interpretation itself. Point 1: I'm abandoning duty, irresponsible, neglected preparation for the school year. Then let's move on. So I'm ignoring and I'm irresponsible. I have an underestimating, exclusive and ignorant relationship, and I'm incompetent. Here I am again humiliated and unprofessional, destroying, neglecting, insensitive to the mental and physical health of children and young people. I'm harmful, I'm foolish, and I'm politically motivated. That last one's probably true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by the proposer, Mag. Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Look, Madam Minister, you obviously have a very hard skin, if you are watching, watching what this government is doing, and yet you do not react, not withdraw from what any reasonable Democrat would have done, then you obviously have a very hard skin. But it doesn't matter whether you're a man or a woman, I don't know why you're pointing this out, why you're always trying to focus today on the issue of women's role in society, which, as it is said, is very important to my notions; especially in terms of how this government deals with these issues and what things the Prime Minister Janez Janša says, which, by the way, he also lost in court. But you know, you're contradictory, Madam Secretary. On the one hand, you say that you will answer only the things recorded in the interpretation, on the other hand you quote some things about the role of women in politics, and on the other hand, when we tell you a specific example of what your boss is saying, don't answer that. Looks like we're talking through each other. Besides, you decided to play the victim, not just because you're a woman, but also when you were sick. On one occasion, none of us pointed out that we should be present when you were getting over the coronary virus, not just because you couldn't get out of bed, because it would be dangerous for others, for society and it's mean that you're exposing it now. I too got over the Coronavirus a few weeks after you, but no one pointed out it; even more, on the day you got sick or this information came to the public, we called a press conference where we talked about it, you were unresponsive and that you were not in public until that day. So it couldn't have had a direct connection to your illness. However, we have highlighted something else, but we have pointed out that it is highly controversial, rather than dealing with these stakeholders, to calm them in some way and to inform them how to operate in these difficult situations, you are traveling. That's controversial! That's what's at issue with me, because it's a priority. It seems to me that one second-rate international meeting is significantly less important, forgive me than setting the conditions in schools for the normal course of learning, it seems significantly less important to me. And Madam Minister, since we're talking in front of the cameras, you're resuscitating now and saying that you've been talking to the stakeholders, but they're telling the union that you're not, the principals say that you're not, the teachers say, everyone's talking. I don't know which world you live in, but I don't know if you're deliberately deceiving or really not seeing the surroundings around you. I mean, the whole of Slovenia was on its feet because you weren't there at the time of the negotiation of the new decrees, and you're saying you've been there all along. And now you've also pointed out that there's a meeting with the principals of high school right now. I don't know, I see the entire management of the ministry here in the National Assembly, it's said, you're repositioning to some "Middle management", to other structures. But the role of the minister is to save these things, not just to take pictures, but to say different banquets, Olympics and so on. And once again, we do not want to follow you where you are going, but you are on some business trips, but it is only right that when you decide here in Slovenia the key things for the further possibility of educating children in school premises, it is right that you are the one who comes to a meeting that will finally calm the stakeholders. You also need to understand that there is some nervousness in these times, and at the same time to make a decision to say so, it will and will be over and so it is not for you to decide something, but for you to suggest something, and then the Prime Minister Janez Janša will prevent you from doing so. And without even commenting on why your decision was overturned, there is a new, different decision to make. As was the case, for example, when you announced in December that schools would open up and then they wouldn't open up, because obviously someone else over you said, "Oh, now you're leaving if you don't agree with that." In short, I also wanted to ask the Minister about the attitude towards higher education and about the tendering of concessions that are illegal for my concepts and will also be decided by the anti-corruption commission, and apparently I will not be able to do so now because the Minister is no longer in the Chamber, so I will be late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. In view of this tent in the hall, I see no problem if Comrade Koprivc illustrated something with a gesture that he wanted to stress. Thus, this dissatisfaction by the coalition Members does not seem reasonable and necessary, and the Minister's protest abandonment, in my opinion, is entirely unfounded. Only so much to explain, that even viewers will know what's going on, given that the camera only shoots the speaker. Gradually, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As chairman, you are the one who is leading and directing this meeting and, of course, that the meeting takes place in the spirit of some democracy and some respect. I don't think it's appropriate for my fellow Members to hit computers, and I don't know what else to do, because, after all, it's up to you if there's anything else going on around the hall, flying through the air. I think you're responsible for how and what's gonna happen next. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u61	Mrs. Iva Dimic, stop fooling around.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u62	My procedural proposal is to remind you that we are discussing respectfully and calmly. This is my procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u63	Yes, I understand your procedural proposal, but at this point I must answer all those who accompany the meeting that you have so far deceived and exaggerated your intervention. Comrade Koprivc did not throw anything at the hall, and he did not rumble with anything, especially with the computer, but with his hand he hit the table and the sound of the sound is heard. And stop exaggerating. The debate so far takes place in the right spirit. What you're doing now, when you yell at each other, only points to your level of culture, not ours. But when something starts to fly in the air, Mrs. Iva Dimic, believe me, I'm going to urinate with all the necessary care. Don't worry about that. But I will not interfere with the Members' gestures while they are debating, because this is absurd. Each one of you is gesticulating on his own. Please don't fool or exaggerate. We are now continuing the debate. Comrade Koprivc, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u64	Look, these attacks on me now are completely groundless. I just wanted to say that I'm glad things were recorded and that you can see exactly what someone did. I have only pointed out that the Minister should just make a decision and say so, and that will be the end, but not always that he adapts to the will and wishes of the Prime Minister. But now that you're making some stories about how things fly in the air and I don't know what, but it's straight, straight funny.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u65	Mr Montenegro also has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u66	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would gradually remind you, as President, that the Minister is also only a human being and today the Minister has been here since 10 a.m., if I am not mistaken, and has now left the Chamber. Your comment that she left the hall in protest is out of place. So I ask you to leave such hints at the outset. It's just a suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u67	Comrade Montenegro, let me just explain to you that at the moment the Minister stood up, she looked at me and personally commented to me that she was leaving the meeting in protest because she would not tolerate such a debate. That's why I made that comment, and that's not my fill-up. So now that you're not hearing too well, Ozira, this comment wasn't even meant for you, it was for me. [[…]] That's why I made that comment because it was built in the barn. I'd go over it because I don't think it's necessary, but you cooked it yourself in the coalition because you behaved indecently at the time of the debate. Now, if you don't mind, without commenting and yelling at each other, we'd continue the debate. Thank you very much. Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik has the floor and is being prepared by Mrs Natasa Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Before I start my discussion, I might suggest, I don't know if the Minister is coming back to the hall – and I have been sitting here since 10:00, and I'm just as human as she is – that she will hear what we're going to tell her, because I'm not explaining it to the Secretary of State of Slavinca. [[…]] So, Madam President, I propose that we suspend the meeting in 10 minutes, that the Minister fulfils her needs and then we continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u69	No, we will not interrupt the meeting now, because there is no need for the Minister to be present in order to take the meeting forward and discuss it. It's her judgment, or she probably has human needs, just like all of us. I therefore propose that we begin or continue the debate. So, [[…]] Mrs. Wilderness Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u70	Okay, I get it. Then I thought to avoid this debate on women, but we probably have to open it up, given this fact and the tactics in the notes that the Minister obviously took today, because she does not have any arguments. [[…]] I'm guessing that's what the male counselors advised her to do. Now, I, as a woman who, in fact, is always fighting for equality of women, have a very big problem here today. The problem is that I have to tell the ministers, the women, one of the two who are in this government here today, how they actually lower all the standards that women have achieved in all history in the political arena. Dignity, responsibility, attitude towards education, teachers, parents, administrators, this minister has placed the lowest possible point of view and has done harm to all women in political functions. And what surprised me more today was her first response, because now, in the second, she was a little more calm, obviously they wrote to her to calm down. But there, when she responded or presented these answers to the interpretation, today she showed the arrogance, the arrogance, the scheming, the playing of the victim, and the most important thing about the whole story was that she abused women. She abused them. Madam Minister, Dr Simona Kustec, because the distinguished Minister, Dr Simona Kustec, is unfortunately unable to tell you – why? Because respect needs to be earned. That's what every teacher in the class knows. That's why only Mrs. Minister Dr. Kustec. The criticism of your work doesn't just come from the fact that you're a woman but from the criticism that you're a bad minister. Pika! That you are, in fact, the worst minister in the history of this country, that you are in the wrong position, Madam Minister, Dr Simona Kustec. Now I will dare quote Nika Kovac, who has just published himself, as follows: “You, Simona Kustec, are a woman in a position of power, one of the few decision makers in the country, one of those who could do something. Feminism is solidarity. How dare you talk about your work being criticized by women's silence mechanisms? You were quiet when your Prime Minister Tejo Jarc sent you to a psychiatric hospital. You were quiet when your Prime Minister spoke to the press about prostitutes. You were silent when your government members went to meetings against abortion. You were quiet when people in positions of power insulted NGOs. Because you really don't care about women's rights, because it's really just about you and your power. Simona Kustec, you are not a victim of patriarchal society. You are the machine that drives it.” End of story. And now I'm adding this to all of this. Madam Minister Simona Kustec, as a woman you can be ashamed of; it is a shame that you are silent and ashamed to hide because it was your decision. The matter of personal integrity and the issue of the spine is whether you as a minister are willing to stand for everything that this government does to all of us, including your children and your grandchildren, when I talk about poofs. Madam Minister Simona Kustec, you are known for two things: this is a fine saying and these are empty flossules. In fact, you're a world champion. But you can't live off words. You've put your department in chaos. And you're covering a very large resource. Indeed, it is true that there is now the most money in this department in history, as they say, and now three days have been explained to us by coalition partners. But it is also true that poofs are the greatest in history — and therefore, of course, there is the most money in this area. But, Madam Minister, from your fine-talking and empty flossules have the principals of confusion and distress, from your fine-talking teachers have confusion and distress, from your fine-talking and empty flossules your parents have confusion and distress, from your beauty-telling and empty flossules they have children, students, students of confusion and distress. This is the result of your beautiful words and Flossules, empty of course. Because today, when you just told your defense of this interpolation, you said everything else, except what we're reading to you, I'm going to read to you again what we're reading in the interpolation, and then I'll explain it to you. Madam Minister Simona Kustec, for the first time, we report to you the suspension of due treatment with irresponsible neglect of preparation for the school year 2021/2022 in well-known epidemiological conditions. Secondly, underestimating, excluding and ignoring attitudes towards the professional and interested public, school unions and civil society, and inability to coordinate epidemiological measures in the education and education system. Third, humiliating and non-professional attitude towards scientific research. Fourthly, the neglect of social interests in higher education and the destruction of internationalisation. Fifth, neglect of the field of sports, athletes, sports organizations. Six, insensitive to the mental and physical health of children and young people. Week, harmful, unwise, politically motivated abolition of the school for principals. And Mrs Minister Simona Kustec is not the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, because she is not on the side of children, students, students and their knowledge, development or socialisation, nor is she on the side of teachers, professors, directors who have been in chaos and anger at parents because of reckless and vague decisions. It is not even on the side of sport and healthy lifestyle – if you do not believe, ask athletes and trainers. Madam Minister Simona Kustec has not been able to prepare a timely and effective plan or set of measures against the coronavirus in order to ensure a safe and reliable educational process, in order to avoid further education. He doesn't even consider the profession, especially epidemiologists, teachers, and even less psychologists. Her constant talk that educational institutions must close the last and open the first, remained only on paper, because the fact is that schools in Slovenia have been closed for too long. In all this time, virtually nothing has happened to improve the ventilation of school premises and other measures to help contain the virus. Madam Minister, Dr Simona Kustec does not even establish a dialogue with important stakeholders, unless, what she has previously explained and shown us graphs does not take account of them, she does not hear them. Otherwise, she does it with them, as she said herself, IT meetings, and then she doesn't hear it – she makes them for statistics, because meetings. It does not even take into account its models for the implementation of the schooling, those books which they published themselves at the Ministry of Education, but have been published in order to record that they have issued it because they do not stick to it, at least in the past they have not. The paradox of the whole story is that again all responsibility for teaching is also a distance lesson when it happened, and also for teaching in difficult epidemiological situations again and only on the directors, teachers and, of course, those parents who have to stay home for their children. And here those self-employed parents don't even get 100 percent of the hospital. The Minister is not even a minister because she takes the measures too late or sends them right before labor. This is not a day earlier, but a few hours before they need to be taken into account in schools, and in the meantime, a few statements will be made if, of course, they are made or given by someone else who is contradictory and with whom teachers, of course, are unable to help. It's this modern way of managing it. Obviously. Mrs Simona Kustec, Minister, working in education and education, is burdened with a number of unclear circuits and decrees that are full of uncertainties, irregularities and, as we have already said, just before today, they arrive at the principals and then they are sent to their parents immediately before they arrive. It also adopts decisions that too often prove to be unconstitutional and illegal. It is inactive or, in our opinion, makes a decisive lack of technical adjustments in schools or classrooms. Otherwise, at that first stage, the students who did not have computers and routers were given them, but as we know, there are still quite a few white foxes in Slovenia, because unfortunately this is also impossible. And just so we're clear, I don't blame the Minister for not telling me. Even for ventilation systems, partitions, single tables, the rotation system, like other countries started, our minister does nothing. In the key moments when the school system needs it most, it is absent or is not responding, which is extremely irresponsible, because it is the one that is decisive in organising the implementation of education measures. Isn't it? It communicates incontrovertibly and indistinctly, often contradictoryly, and in this way adds further confusion and confusion and distress to the school space, as I have said before. The situation that we have is, in fact, that education, science and sport have not actually had a minister for a long time because she does not run it, but her function exists on paper and every 15th in the account. I'm sorry. Now, if we take a closer look at what I have just been saying, then of course it is necessary to say that during this year's summer vacation, the Minister has had enough time, including enough money and, most importantly, sufficient experience from last year, so that schools can be safely opened and that, of course, they can remain open until the end of the school year. Despite past experiences, schools have closed too quickly due to the lack of response of the minister and unprepared scenarios. The damage done to the schoolchildren is irreparable. Third generation, third generation is already experiencing this! And what happened to the profession's calls? Nothing. It's outrageous. Details of last year's school year's graduation were again known just before fruit. Let me just remind you that I had already warned her about the prom before last year, and she didn't react. For this, which happened in May, however, – I think one day earlier, if I am not mistaken, or two days earlier – the government decided practically overnight and changed the vaccination strategy and classified the graduates as priority groups, but also this time or then the government did not take into account in this decision of the expert group which declared the government's decision to be a willful political decision. So much in support of not taking into account the profession. In the LMŠ, together with the opposition, we convened many meetings, asked many questions, initiatives, and asked the Ministry for answers, for which I can tell you that they are generally flat-rate – answers. In LMŠ, we have been proactively proposing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the Minister, from March onwards, on the preparation of programmes to compensate for the deficiencies we have in children, students, including students for the closure of schools and distance education, the installation of facilities measuring the potential concentration of the virus in the air, ultraviolet air cleaning facilities in closed spaces, including the preparation of a campaign on the importance of ventilation, the preparation of a plan to activate additional training facilities in smaller groups, including training guidelines, guidelines and measures for school year and graduation, including measures to assist the fitness industry, measures to radically reduce the movement, physical capacity of children and youth, including with regard to the number of hours of sports education, to promote sport and healthy lifestyle, including the conditions for the education of children with special needs, and to adapt and adapt learning plans, including with regard to the continuing to education and education of students. At least we have taken over 50 initiatives in the LMŠ. We also said that measures cannot be only black and white, so we have given very concrete solutions both to her and to the Government. However, with all the warnings and the proposed measures, everything remains on the same system as it was, the last minute is regulated when the house is very, very burning. This is also the responsibility of Minister Simona Kustec. She's responsible for this because she's made up her mind. But if she didn't make up her mind, then let her say it. Otherwise, the responsibility must be taken. And since the ministers are not, the secretaries of state are doing the job instead, including those who are employed in the cabinet of Prime Minister Janez Janša, not in the ministry, but those State secretaries are signing all the investment documents. Interesting! About the complications surrounding the self-testing that occurred earlier in April this year and about all those voluntary self-testing plans, and about those press conferences, as first Minister Poklukar said the children would test themselves, the children of the first triad would test themselves at home, and then they changed their minds the second day. In short, all these stories, and I'm not going to talk about all this confusion here, because we all know, and most of all, the principals and parents know. For we expected optimistically in LMŠ that the ministry with new knowledge and new knowledge would prepare for this new school year, of course before the start of school holidays, but unfortunately it turned out that the minister had chosen a different path, this is a path of ignorance and passivity. Perhaps something else about what we read under point 6 is insensitive to the mental and physical health of children and young people. Now all these consequences of this multi-week and even months-long restriction on the lives of children and adolescents are, of course, unimaginable. A few letters or discussions in the media could be read by distinguished experts, including psychologists, who were at this closure, even if you remember the strips played in the parks, the strips at the parks were glued around the games and then the president of the country exercised, if you remember, but the children were not allowed. But okay, all of this has been very warned by distinguished experts. Children and adolescents, or their parents, report problems from different backgrounds, such as feelings of loneliness, anxiety, anxiety and depression, specific health and death-related fears, including specific fears related to the economic status of the family and schooling, including irritability, sleep and running disorders, chronic fatigue, and the most worrying increase in adolescent suicide. All of this was discussed and warned by experts, but our schools were closed, and students were thrown out of college homes. And it happened — nothing. Despite all the calls, requests, initiatives that we have written to the Minister in the LMŠ. Now, what are these psychosocial consequences of the long-term limitation of the lives of children and adolescents? We will face this for years and years after the cove. It would therefore be necessary for the Minister here to urinate now for the next generation and for those, including experts, who will have to deal with this for years and years. The consequences of this restriction on the lives of children and adolescents and the closure of schools are also the deterioration of the quality of family relations, the greater the risk of domestic violence, and the negative effects of increased use of electronic media. The excessive use of electronic media has also been shown to have adverse effects on cognitive functions – sleep, mood and frequency of movement and movement activities. These are the consequences, too. Fourthly, there is also a risk of online violence and abuse. Faced with exposure to peer violence and the danger of child abuse online, children then spent hours and hours online, of course working for school, but they did little else. And these habits of theirs have remained. That is why it is still important today to make this clear and to start solving all these things now, here, because it will be too late for a lot of people. Then next time, fifth time, what are the consequences of the fact that schools have been closed for too long? And too little free play and movement. Six, less learning efficiency. For successful learning, movement is also essential. So schools introduce these motion breaks and all that they do, of course, at least at our school, even before the co-pilot, but these are things that need to be supported today. Especially be supportive because we know what happened in this mobile area with children and adolescents. Since we also know that we had teenagers before, I'm going to say domestically, too fat, and now these things are showing up in kids. And if it happens again that schools will be closed, and I hope that doesn't happen, then there will be so much more. It is therefore necessary to think now about what we are going to do now so that children do not have these consequences. The long-term closure of schools, student homes and all of this has also resulted in expulsion from peer groups. Indeed, all of this has, of course, also affected the development and mental health of children, adolescents, students. Students were thrown out of dormitory overnight, and some or more buses were not allowed to come home. But we don't know what kind of environment they're going back to, or what kind of environment children live in. That is why we have warned in the LMŠ that schools should be closed for the last time. It also happened, eight times, to have difficult access to advisory services and professional assistance for all those children, adolescents, students, including parents who needed this professional help. From a distance, it couldn't be done. And if you ask the Advisory Centre for Children and Adolescents in Maribor today, they will tell you how the numbers of those who need new help and those who are coming back, even though they were once with them, then they were gone for a while. But now it's a period of co-vid and closing down schools and shutting down everything that's been going on, and they're coming back. And this difficult access to mental health services will also show up and will show up for years, so it is also necessary to think about this today, and this service needs to be strengthened very much today. Now, I'm not going to talk about stress coming back after a longer school break for children with developmental disabilities and special needs, because my colleagues are going to talk about this anymore, but we can imagine that it wasn't easy for those children who are not having these developmental problems or with special needs, how it was just who they were. And then what did the minister do? Yeah, she closed the school. Now let me tell you the paradox of everything I've just explained. We took the budget yesterday, didn't we, and we talked about it for three days? We have also tabled an amendment in the LMŠ, where 500 000 euros – beware, 500 000 euros – has been earmarked for the mental health of children and young people and the availability of professional care in this area. In fact, we wrote: “It is necessary to strengthen mental health in schools. This can be achieved mainly by strengthening advisory services. These are important both in terms of assistance and also in terms of integrality, they call for educational, psychosocial and career counselling for children, adolescents, parents, as well as in terms of stress, support and education of teaching staff in the collective. In this light, it is particularly important to note the need for additional support, i.e. advisory services, to classmates who play an increasingly crucial role in the prevention of mental health or in the development of a safe and stimulating climate in the departmental community. Many teachers, not just parents, need support in adapting to changing classroom situations." That is why we proposed an amendment of EUR 500 000 in the LMŠ. But you know what happened? Nothing! The coalition MPs firmly rejected him. And we are talking about 500 000 euros in this billion-dollar budget and almost 15 billion poufs that this government has made for all of us, because it obviously does not realize whether or not it wants to realize that all these consequences of the coven will come after us. And then the problems will be much bigger than they are now. Now, I've been explaining something to myself for over a half hour now, because the Minister is gone, so I'm going to end this. So, what about a minister who doesn't do his job anymore than he obviously does? What about a minister who has no decisive word and is governed by others? What about a minister who doesn't have more than a vision of how to run this area; the education, sports, youth? What about the minister who, through the closure of schools and poor measures, has contributed to the deterioration of the psychological health of students, students, students? But the worst part is that the minister is so self-confident that she can't see her mistakes and the poor management of her department at all. What's more, she's just a minister. It's important to her that she thinks she's making a decision. He thinks he's making a decision. Slovenian education and our children certainly deserve a more suitable person at the top of the school district, so please, Madam Minister Simona Kustec – not a respected Minister, but only Mrs Minister – for the sake of all of us, advise, withdraw and maintain at least a little dignity. Finally, you will have to teach at least 20 years at FDV. Stand down because you are in the wrong job because your job description and job description in this job, unfortunately, does not fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Natasa Sukić, for whom Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Of course, I'd like to greet the Minister respectfully, but it's like Hitchcock's. Minister Kustec is just a woman who is disappearing all the time, and this time she has disappeared, and even though she explained to us earlier that if we don't see her, it doesn't mean she isn't, and that if we don't hear her, it doesn't mean she doesn't talk. But somehow I would still like to experience at least here in the National Assembly some close encounter with her so that I can ask her some questions and maybe even in some real time and space I hear some answers from her mouth, because otherwise I can strain my ears as much as I can, but I can't hear these answers. Isn't it? I don't know, it's just so obvious that this ignorance we're reading is present; if it ignores parents, if it ignores children, if it ignores schoolchildren, yes, it ignores us, Members and Members. [[…]] But who are we, when she is the flower that John Janša has placed on her shelf and is carefully watering her as long as she serves his purpose, and of course nothing will happen to her today at this interpretation. That is why she has so arrogantly thrown out of the hall on the first occasion, which, of course, she has invented her great self-interest for an excuse before, but a little more temperamental implementation of my fellow Member. Nor can I go beyond how she actually plays here today some role of sacrifice, which she has apparently played very successfully. After all, he's in good school. We know that Janez Janša has been a victim since this Slovenia's independence, and also Minister Kustec has obviously learned this role well and has done well. For Minister Kustec rejects all evidence and says that criticism is based on mechanisms to silence a woman. And I want to ask her, and unfortunately I can't because she's gone, yeah, how the hell do you keep someone who's been quiet all the time? That's the first question I've been asked seriously. Furthermore, Minister Kustec concludes with her May's defense that the eyewitnesses are directed at her because she is a woman. See, with such a reference to sex, as this is by chance politically opportunistic, the minister actually devalues the actual problems of sexual inequality in society. Not to mention the sad fact that Minister Kustec, in this government of the full-blooded stallions themselves, has completely submitted herself to the structure commanded by the great patriarch Janez Janša, without objecting to the bowed head and silence. And then this same minister here just pathetically tells us how we actually treat and treat her just because she's a woman. But I'm going to repeat things that have already been heard today, but somehow they're getting lost, so they won't dilute, I'm going to try to rip them off. Indeed, the fact is that, at the time of the epidemic, the Minister was blindly following measures in the school space, which were often questionable from a health point of view and also questionable or reckless. These are facts, she did not wonder how harmful they are to the educational process, she did not ask about their nonconsistency, about their constant change, their suddenness, legal questionability, nor did she worry about the mismatch with the schoolchildren, regardless of the fact that these measures, and it is evident that children have come disproportionately. Now, the minister is firmly rejecting it, denying it, and citing in her sense that she is a victim, she is referring to being bullied as a woman. But that is the fact that the minister is there – it doesn't matter whether she is a minister or a minister or anything – that she is concerned that the educational process is going on smoothly and in the best possible quality way for children and young people in schools. Next. Any pedagogical considerations have been completely absent in deciding on the measures and modalities for the implementation of teaching and accompanying measures. The Ministry was unable to harmonise, so it was unable to harmonise important stakeholders in the relationship between the Government, the Ministry, the teaching profession, school workers and principals and to show us how many meetings it had held, the fact that the profession had witnessed this, the fact is that schoolchildren were complaining. Do you think that's what they're making up? These are facts, respected and respected! And in the midst of the biggest health and education crisis, the Ministry of Education, like the rest of the ministry, was unfortunately not immune to political acquisition and recruitment. That's what the secretary was up to. Or rather, she did not do what she allowed to be smooth, as she allowed everything. The Minister allowed obvious political acquisitions and politicisation of the educational space by the SDS party. Let's just take a look at some of the most exciting cases in the sky. For example, the expulsion of Jane Javornik from higher education and the installation of her professionally inadequate personnel. Politicalisation of schools through ZOFVI, intervention in the work and management of the Pedagogical Institute, establishment of publicly funded higher schools for the needs of the SDS party, such as the example of Grm, extension of accreditation to Jambrek University, which did not meet the conditions for it, through intervention legislation, through the PKP package. I mean, impudence without chance, arrogance to everything in this area, and the complete incompetence and inability of the minister to stop it. Then let's move on. Grant concessions to private universities, mostly SDS satellites. We are reading just now, this is today's news, and Matthew said earlier that because the presidents of the State Commission for the general prom could not be resolved on some established legal path, the ministry is being set up, and here our minister is very innovative, they have come up with innovative solutions, and they have slightly changed the decision to appoint a graduation committee, which was adopted under the previous government, but they have gone a little after the surrenders to search, drawn an old decision and changed their names. Imagine that, unbelievable! And with this manoeuvre, Marina Tavčar Kranjc was replaced by a new MP, our colleague from SDS, Janchoologist Dark Friš. This is the dean of the Maribor Faculty of Philosophy, who, as mentioned earlier today, has mentored more than 20 diplomas and dissertations that have studied — see it — the character and work of Janez Janša. And Friš was also the mentor of the diplomatic work of our new fellow Member with the title Political Action of Janez Janša from 1988 to 1992. He also mentored the doctoral dissertation of Andreja Valič Zver, member of the SDS Executive Committee, entitled The role of Demos in the process of Slovenian independence and democracy. Well, that's how our eternally disappearing, absent or eternally percentage minister Kustec works. Not to protect the integrity of educational institutions. No, she's not actually going to protect anyone because she's not actually working at all. Even now she can't sit here and push out. In short, the minister gathered an obedient group of political leaders around her instead of having trained staff and experts in the field of education. Next. The Minister did not establish any serious expert group of an interdisciplinary team, an expert advisory team that could make a substantial contribution to the adoption of meaningful and timely measures in the field of education. And what are the consequences? As a result, the Ministry of Education did not, in fact, exist. And we know who's in charge all the time. They are led by Prime Minister Janez Janša, and Simona Kustec praises teachers and parts of bouquets, and in fact she is a minister without a shred of authority and integrity. Next. Despite verifiable facts, the Minister is still reducing the importance and consequences of the long-term closure of schools. All the time, he deceives the public that everything is in the best order, that last year's school year has been successfully completed and simplified understands or, better said, does not understand the complexity of distance teaching and the role of information and communication technologies in the school space. Next. The Ministry does not yet have a serious analysis of the situation or evaluation study, which would at least approximate how many learning goals and how many curriculums for primary schools, secondary schools, kindergartens have been achieved or realized. This one simply does not exist, respected and respected. Let my colleague, the Boxer, tell me that you can see at the prom what knowledge is, but there's no analysis of it. But if it is, let this minister or any of you show it at last. So there is no analysis of what goals and learning standards there is a manna in which subjects, what compensation strategies should be at schools and so on – nothing at all! Instead, most of the information is opinional. The data is presented in a way that teachers report this or that; that is, some partial information that is then waved and manipulated on a large scale here. And in her response to the interpolation, the Minister has completely reduced the impact of the epidemic on education without indicating resources or analyses. It is clear that the epidemic school year has been successfully carried out and is preparing data on the European and globally comparable poor response of the ministry to the epidemic, irrespective of empirically verifiable facts, that schools in Slovenia have in fact been closed record-breakingly for a long time both in European and global terms. But no! The Minister and Members of the SDS, or coalition, continue to deceive and lie, my dear. The tables are accessible, I mean, anyone can find them. Did the minister say anything when parents and students fought for their school, or did she protect them when they were being deepened, sanctioned and abused when they protested that they could have a lesson, my people? Did our dear, good minister say anything at the time? She didn't say. She'll say, of course, that she's talking, even if we can't hear her, but we haven't heard her. The Minister, in response to the interpolation, rather than giving at least some reasonable reasons or stating at least some fact related to the epidemic, which suggested the necessity of such a long distance schooling period, firmly asserts, non-chalantly argues that long-range education has been successful, that the school process has generally been successful in the epidemic year and that Slovenia has also shown comparatively good performance. Now I don't know – Slovenia on what planet? If it didn't work out well on planet Earth, look. But if there's a parallel universe somewhere, maybe there is. The Minister points out that in at least nine countries schools have been closed longer than in Slovenia, using data from the Our Work and Data web portal, and does not indicate periods of data collection. It's interesting, but it doesn't mention periods! But if we use the same source, we find out — what? That Slovenia is in the fourth place in Europe according to the length of closed schools in a one-year period from September 2020 to September 2021. Comparative analyses by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Sport Organization of UNESCO for Slovenia show a much different and much more realistic picture, as well as an extremely poor picture. Unesca data clearly show that in the period from February 2020 to today, Slovenia is placed among the recorders in relation to the full and partial closure of schools in addition to Bulgaria, Poland, the Czech Republic and Latvia in relation to the closure period. As has been said several times today, more than 41 weeks. Moreover, Slovenia has had schools closed for the longest 47 weeks, respected and respected. So Slovenia has a one-day jump in front of the Czech recorder in the European Union. And that's what the Unesco data shows. These are not some data events like you would like to show, but this is nothing to you; just as it is completely irrelevant that we have the most infected per 100,000 people in Slovenia – you will wave with your hand; so you are neither tanning nor caring that Slovenia is the recorder in the European Union after the length of school closure. Well, the minister finally showed up, but unfortunately I've already opened a few questions in the meantime, probably by the minister. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] She couldn't hear it. Or is it? Well, I'm glad you heard. I hope you've had your lunch. Let's keep going. From a more accurate data review [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u73	Mrs Sukič, Mrs Sukič, I just need to remind you that we will also be right for the Minister. [[…]] Madam Minister is available [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u74	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u75	monitor the meeting also from the room dedicated to the Government. [[…]] So, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u76	Okay. From a more accurate review of the data, it is also found that Slovenia [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u77	Let's be correct. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u78	in second place, therefore, as regards the period of full closure. [[…]] Dear Minister, we are talking about the data that UNESCO has just published, where it is clear that we have been closed for the longest time in the European Union, 47 weeks, respected, a week more than the Czech Republic is behind us. So we don't get to know how and what, and make up some things I don't know. We are also in second place on the period of partial closure and second place on the basis of the time of partial and full closure of schools in September 2020 until October 2021. On a global scale – honourable Minister, please listen – only six OECD countries are ranked worse than Slovenia on a global scale. These are Colombia, Chile, Costa Rica, Mexico, Turkey and the United States. I mean, that's very, very, very bad. You can't say that we have successfully passed through the epidemic if we have such an unenviable record that we are recognized by bad things rather than by good things on an international scale. Therefore, the fact is that Slovenia has responded in a very poor way or at the worst in terms of adapting the educational system in the context of the epidemic. And please, I'd like to know the answer, Minister, why so. How can you say that everything is good and everything is nice and good if the data is clear? We all see that. Not only do schoolchildren and children and parents complain that you do not hear well enough, but these data are also clear, respected. I'd really like to know how dare you say everything was okay. The data says one thing, the profession, the students, the parents and the children say one thing, we warn you and you continue to say that everything was fine. And I'm really asking you to explain how this is possible by not having any analysis, which I don't know if you could have heard me or not before when I discussed it. No actual analysis to justify how good that was. None. But I can go back in again to tell you which tests we're not going to be hunting. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, when are we gonna get them? Well, we'll get the analysis today. It would be nice to have them before the session, so that you don't get needlessly tortured with something if there's something out there, because we haven't seen it before. So, Minister, look, I mean, the fact is that in every kind of normal democracy where politicians usually accept some basic responsibility, an objective responsibility, they should just give up because of the obvious bad work. And also because of ignoring and ignoring the actual dimensions of the consequences. And an eternal excuse, an epidemic up or down. The whole world was, it's a pandemic, it's not just an epidemic in Slovenia, it's a pandemic, everyone had to face it. And we, as I have shown to you, as well as comparable data, are among the worst in the world, even the worst in Europe, as far as this is concerned – in the European Union, that I am more precise, not in Europe as a whole, that I will not make unnecessary injustice for you. Minister, see, in response to the interpolation, you have in several places, regardless of the facts, more or less explicitly assured that the education process was successfully carried out in the epidemic. You're the smooth, dead, cold one that you're pushing forward. On page 6, let's say you're responding to the analysis that you're saying that we're finally going to be able to see -- I haven't seen them yet, I haven't seen them yet, so I hope we'll see them. Therefore, there is no concrete analysis or source in the response, and it would be expected that you will somehow indicate in the response this source, which would therefore really clarify these indications. In short, we still don't know what kind of analysis you're referring to. We know that an evaluation study should have been carried out, for which all three faculty of education were responsible, but we do not know whether these analyses have actually been carried out, and if so, why you did not specify them. I mean, for a session like today, we should just have materials so that we can properly prepare ourselves so that we don't ask you unnecessary questions, if there's something, but not like this. And so far, as far as I have information, some serious analysis of the achievement of the objectives and the realization of the teaching, about the extent of manc or rash has not been made. Now you prove it to us the other way around, even if it's a little late, but look, today is the opportunity, today we're talking about it. The Ministry therefore has no professional analytical basis for its statements and self-assessments on the effectiveness of the organisation of learning during the epidemic period, as we can see so far. Therefore, the unwarranted assertion of its own success can only be another indication that the Minister for Radical and Extremely Serious Interventions in the Implementation of Education during the Epidemic period does not take seriously. In addition, the Minister's response does not indicate any effort by the Ministry to assess or measure the effects of the epidemic in education in any way. In response, we do not find any serious analysis of the effects of distance learning and other empirical measures in education, which should under the circumstances be one of the priorities of the ministry and a basis for policy-making in this school year and for future planning. That's just supposed to be it. The Ministry also very superficially understands the effects of the sudden and forced transition to distance education, to deepen inequality among students – say, right. It's a radical change of conditions, a respected minister, of access to education. In the course of the night, digital access has changed from access to the Internet to access to education and thus the condition for a key opportunity equalisation mechanism. And this shift represents a radical change in the conditions in which opportunities and equal opportunities are provided for children and adolescents from socially weaker and marginalized social groups. I don't know, Minister, if you've ever been in the field specifically, I've been on a visit to a Roma village and I've seen what it looks like; what it looks like in real life. And in doing so, you, at the Ministry, have clearly understood the issue of equal opportunities only as a question of access to the Internet, both at the level of teachers and students, but you have not asked yourself all the other things. Not even whether the parents of the children by the third grade are qualified at all, or do they know that they are helping these children to gain some knowledge. In short, Minister, you have no idea in fact that the success of the implementation and educational process cannot be ensured only through the measure of facilitating access to the Internet to which you are aiming, target 10 in response to the above measures in this area. And a great deal of your simplified view of learning and distance learning has been your boasting about some of the changes in the regulations that, for example, in primary schools for children with special needs have systemised a new workplace for the maintenance of learning technology or the maintenance of computer equipment. I won't get involved for too long. If schools are to be opened, measures that are coherent, clear and agreed with schoolchildren should be in force. Pika. And that's the way to people's trust, but this trust, Minister, you've already, unfortunately, wasted among parents, among principals, among teachers, between the teaching profession and trust, you're obviously only in the prime minister who put you in this place, as I said earlier, like a flower that is carefully guarded and watered like a beautiful plant while it serves its purpose. So today you will survive this interpolation smoothly because you are quiet and comfortable and do not cause any problems. And that's that, Your Honor, unfortunately I started, in the beginning, with things that are very serious. So, [[…]] Maybe even in conclusion, to finish with what I kind of started with. You claim that the purpose of interpolation is to silence and insult you because you are a woman, but by this you prove that you do not understand how sexual inequality works. You're not an automatic victim just because you're a woman. In fact, your disastrous management of the school base at the time of the epidemic has contributed to the fact that, to an average extent, women who have left their jobs and taken over the role of babysitters and teachers at the time of the learning distance, not to mention the fact that, as SMC representative, you are unswervingly supporting the Government that quietly privatises health care, with tax benefits from the richest and capital owners, it spends hundreds of millions for weapons and is even anti-social and anti-work. And all of these are measures that will affect women, the well-respected minister, who today had such a feminist glimpse. In particular, those who hold significantly less privileged positions than the post of Minister and who do not have a secure teaching post at the university after the end of the mandate of defeat. In short, Minister, you're not the one being attacked because you're a woman. By referring to sex, because this is by chance a political opportunistic, as I said in the introduction, you have actually evaluated the problems of sexual inequality in society, to which you are very much contributing at this very moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have a procedural proposal, Mr. Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u80	Dear Vice President, look. I'd like to refer to Mr Natasa Sukič as a respected colleague, perhaps I'll get a rap sheet back, because I already got it in my position today, she wanted to distract me, but she can't interfere with me because I'm focusing on my position and I'm saying that. But it's a reflection of man, of culture, just like you just mentioned that he doesn't jump into the word as long as someone speaks. But what is my procedural proposal? The procedural proposal is that we have a subcommittee on the Roma community in this session, we have called on all the parliamentary groups; you will not believe that only the Left did not come, she did not put a representative in. You know why? Let her get in there once, and we'll lock ourselves in when there's no cameras when the cops come in and tell us and show pictures of what's going on, what's going on, what's going on? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u81	Mr. Shisko, this is not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u82	Yeah, I'm just telling you, I'm answering her thing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u83	You cannot answer her question because you do not have the right to answer the debates of Members and Members in the context of the procedural proposal, but in the context of the procedural proposal you have to make a proposal to me regarding the management of the meeting, either in relation to the course of the meeting, but not to comment on the substance. So if you have a procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure, please form one.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u84	Yes, because I've given you a procedural proposal to ask her to join the subcommittee or to join the subcommittee herself, because the subject was precisely this, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. You can't call [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u86	Because she mentioned the Roma. And I told him to come to this committee and see it, but I know why he doesn't go to this committee because their members are working. [[Michorone shutdown]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u87	Mr. Shisko, I turned off your microphone because you're obviously in violation of the rules of procedure. In the context, once again, in the context of the procedural proposal, you cannot invite a Member to do what to do or to join a subcommittee. In the context of the procedural proposal, you may make a proposal to apply the Rules of Procedure or to manage the meeting, but you cannot invite a Member. Now, if we agree that you broke the rules of procedure, let's get this over with. Mr. Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u88	Perhaps I will just address you to suggest, my procedural proposal is that the left-wing Group will also put a Member on the subcommittee and we will be able to discuss there, to talk about that they will see that my true statements are what I am saying. Because I've always been written on a letter, and from experience, I say, not some fill-up, because yesterday she spoke like that in the Penal Code, and today she says otherwise. Thank you, Madam Vice President, for understanding me and allowing me to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u89	Yes, I understand what you're trying to say, but you didn't understand me that you abused the procedural proposal and you didn't make the right procedural proposal. Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure states that a Member wishing to speak on the use of the Rules of Procedure shall be given an immediate word. You said you wanted to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, I gave you my word, but you overstepped or used it, so I appeal to all of you to refrain from such behaviours in the future. Why don't you and Mrs. Sukich take a look outside if you have anything to say to her? We continue the debate. The text is wanted by the proposer, Mr Mag. Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I wanted to raise one more area earlier because the Minister left the room, and I felt better to come forward later, because these are specific questions that have been left out in your previous implementations or answers. Chapter 4 Interpellation The creation of social interests in higher education. Here, as I have previously pointed out, there are quite a few serious indications of corrupt practices in this area, particularly in relation to private universities. In some ways, they provide some benefits, partial benefits to individuals close to the ruling SDS party. I am now talking about two specific issues, namely the work of the PKP6, which has forgiven higher education institutions, which are called private higher education institutions, which have undergone accreditation. However, they were automatically extended without the need to meet the conditions that are necessary only when the accreditation expires. Here it went specifically for only one and only private private college, namely Jambrek's so-called New University. The name is already very fitting, as I have said before, but this Janšev authority somehow wants to establish a parallel world; new televisions, new universities following Orban's example, in some way because they haven't discovered hot water. But it is certainly a very controversial provision, especially because it has no connection, but really no connection to mitigating the consequences of the epidemic. As a result, the Constitutional Court has in fact opposed this, I hope to say, to a corrupt provision or provision that has serious indications of corruption. The second issue from the same group is more current and more recent, but it is that yesterday the Government adopted a decision on the call for new concessions for private higher education institutions. This is again a very obvious indication and a suspicion of the linkage of this call with the desire to benefit from certain specific private higher education institutions, which are again close to the ruling party or specific individuals, such as former Director-General Roncevic and certain other persons close to the SDS party. I'd like to ask, Minister, just let me respond to that. Indeed, the Social Democrats are great advocates of public schools, a quality public higher education system and so on. All these actions, however, somehow indicate that your government, in charge of you as Minister, is systematically trying to undermine these public institutions. So the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and so on. What's more, even one private university, because it's close again to some of your own, you've restructured it, you've transformed it into public. But in this way, building a public system, public education is unacceptable. I'd like to ask for a specific response here. I have also asked the PKP or the Anti-Corruption Commission today whether they see any suspicion of corruption in the whole story. Certainly, things are very suspicious. I'm talking about three different things, but I think it's kind of the same reason you're doing it. So basically, we're talking about you trying to charge some candy to private people, especially those close to your ruling party, you're saying SDS, you're trying to reward them on a public account. And that's scary. This trend is what the Social Democrats – and I believe the rest of the democratic opposition – are afraid of. There's not much time left, but every month you do this, it's very dangerous. Not to mention what's going on in the field of public media, but that's another question. You will justifiably, Madam Minister, say that this is not a matter of interpretation. I would return to that earlier performance, but I'm surprised that you, as a liberal, can see these things. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. He wanted the word no more? [[…]] Then we shall proceed with the debate. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, followed by Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I admit that my thoughts are actually at this point in hospital suffering, in those in an artificial coma, in those dying, and in those who have lost the most dear of covid-19, even because of those who don't trust science, and also because of those who are egotistical. By the way, Your Honor, first of all is my sincere gift of gratitude for your actions. Madam Minister, Professor Simon Kustec, I appreciate your work, so you also have our support yesterday, today and tomorrow! How exactly did Professor Simon Kustec become a minister? It was 27 January 2020, when Mr Marjan Sarec, President of the Government, resigned and calculated, but this is not a topic today. Throughout the world, Europe and Slovenia have already been intimidated by the deadly Sars-Cov-2 virus. We also said that it would be best for the party to go to the elections because it was good for us, but the politicians are here to work for the common good. We decided to go and put together a coalition. Every coalition is tiring, very tiring, every one. And then the minister, or Professor Simon Kustec, decided to take over this extremely demanding area. In times of peace it is extremely demanding: kindergartens, children, elementary schools, students, students, parents, teachers and so on. At least — how many — one million people watch or think about a minister every day. Thus, on 13 March 2020, a new government was set up here in this National Assembly, and the Minister of Prof. Dr. Simona Kustec swore. I remember some ridiculed those first sessions; the ministerial assembly in masks, if, what now, is some masquerade or something they've already written. To continue, some colleagues here have been throwing masks out of their faces. I'm not wearing this anymore. We've been listening. And [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Remember, we want a school without masks. This answer, Madam Minister, to interpretation is a school case, this writing and, of course, these slides that we have seen and will still be. This is a school example of how a sportsman or a political opponent gets a checkmate. But I've got to compliment the proponents. To praise because this text is perfectly lectured. I admit I didn't find one mistake. I'm not a Slovenian, but I'm an excellent, excellent lecturer. The eyewitnesses written here, dear colleagues and colleagues, because I understand you, and I can also interpret them as a cry of desperation. You know it won't be 46, you know, because there are more than 46 of us standing for this minister. To be, however, as Dr. Tašner Vatovec says, today can be a debate on education, but I absolutely agree; but one debate in a calm tone, in the tone of the international day of tolerance, which was said to have been three days ago, but probably not. In fact, it is clear that the applicants do not have very clear concepts of the powers of the Minister and the powers of the principals. By the way, I don't know if Mr Prebold is still the director of the Prebold Primary School, who asked this minister and the Minister of Health for evidence of whether viruses really cause diseases, and requested information on how effective covid-19 vaccines are. By the way, at the beginning of the school year — as it is today — this director was an ardent opponent in vaccination. I made an introduction like this because of this principal, but I don't know if he's still a principal. When the government took responsibility, no one ever thought it would be possible to have 100 days of peace, such as normal practice. I did not expect this either, but I was satisfied that within 100 hours — not in 100 days, within 100 hours — this government brought the first aid package to the people and the economy. In 100 hours. Schools — for God's sake, who was the minister in front of Mrs. Dr. Simono Kustec? And this yes, if it was so good, would have to take care of the computer and other infrastructure so that the school could run away without any problems. Not that we were looking – I'm sorry – for computers all over Slovenia so that we could deliver them to certain families that couldn't. Although I know, I'm pretty sure, I know, kids, schooling young people have to be given the best computers, not written off. How did the former Minister not know that he could provide this? That's right. Yes, indeed, this epidemic has solved many of the problems in all our social systems. And now we've been listening for at least a year and a half or so, I don't know that schools in Slovenia have been closed for as long as possible, then not for as long as possible, but so on. Please give me some, please – if you already draw a graph, when schools were closed by countries, then for this time period, for this time interval draw what the intensity of the spread of the virus was. You can't just compare one number and forget the other. There will probably be protests today because it is only Friday, even because in Austria there is a lockdown for the unvaccinated and apparently for Monday there is a full lockdown. But this is Austria, we're better. In this place, I thank the Minister for her realization, she was also able to implement one of the demands of New Slovenia, which we have entered into a coalition contract, namely the law on almost free kindergarten, that I will not explain in detail, and that the parliamentary law on the abolition of non-constitutionality – now will soon, within a few days of the decision of the Constitutional Court – this spring the Minister will turn on the green light. Thank God we put an end to this unconstitutionality. Interpelling a minister who, after 10 years of providing or otherwise, has shown so much confidence within the ministerial council and enjoys such reputation within the ministerial council that more than 115 million euros have been allocated to the Ministry of Education for the construction of kindergartens, primary schools! There was no co-financing for 10 years. We all know that kindergartens and primary schools in the local community domain, which have been in the same period, in these 10 years, should say that the mayors are extremely financially malnourished. When I talk about mayors and, of course, other decision makers in different regions, it is true that one is media reporting, I respect media freedom, there is nothing, but the real world is different, I hope to argue. When the government goes into the field, they all stick to the minister and to the other ministers, thanks for being able to build schools, kindergartens and so on. I know about my congregation. “Yes,” you will say, “that is the Horvat made.” No, he didn't make anything. If a kindergarten had not been built in my congregation, in the autumn of 2022 half the children’s school or kindergarten would have to leave. So much for the public education you so advocate, and so much for the public schools you advocate with the word public education, public education and so on. If you don't like concessions, for God's sake, let it be the first law when you're in the government to betray them and so on. We hear so many criticisms about concessions, some private initiatives and so on. I'll say something here. Is it right, colleagues and colleagues, that in the past the Ministry of Education has given a green light – to say homely – to some higher education programme, these graduates still do not have a job enrolled in the professions register, as far as I can see, is being regulated and, on the other hand, if the programme is being implemented in the socially worst region, students must pay between €3 and €4 000 of tuition? Because the previous ministers said, "No, that's not it. But the Muggles will pay for themselves." The identical programme somewhere else in Slovenia can be concessional. Okay? Okay. I know it would be more pleasant for the Minister today if she could enjoy Slovenian children in kindergartens or schools at a traditional Slovenian breakfast, but the schedule of the National Assembly is just like that. Excuse me, Madam Secretary. That the Minister is traveling. You know, Slovenia holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union, in case anyone else does not know, and a few events are outside Slovenia. I understand these criticisms, but I find them hard to accept. I know that you have no experience with the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and you do not know how this is going, and we know that this is an extraordinary burden for the entire government, the entire ministerial team. I admit that I would also like more, even now before the elections, to work at home, but this is one of the most important tasks. You will not believe anyone I listen to, I ask, of course competent people in the European Commission and so on, we also listen to what kind of heads of government, so far the Slovenian Presidency is getting excellent grades. Finally, we will see what assessment they will give for this, I repeat, of the competent institutions. If the minister travels – I am not this kind to pull out now, but another minister has also traveled, but significantly more, and how much money he has spent. But that's not my style. The Minister must travel, the Minister must travel and build on the reputation of our country. The instructions that they weren't correct are one way, the other way they are different. Minister, I must admit that in the past I have missed your greater determination, for what you showed on Sunday on national television, and I know that you have experienced a great applause of the great crowd, including those silent majority of the directors. Because one of the principals said: “This is your original, fundamental task to organize this and that, not least, self-testing.” And here, too, many of these complicated kids of ours were given chess mats when they showed they knew they could do it. There was no problem. So much for that. As far as investment is concerned, you probably won't be able to read it anywhere, and I would add that there is a bill in preparation. The first will be signed by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. We will provide additional funding for sport infrastructure. You know that was promised at the time of the Olympics. The minister to report that she went to greet our best ambassadors, athletes – the best ambassadors – in Tokyo, but she is, excuse me, under the belt, really under the belt. Because she's also a sports minister. 55 kindergartens, 71 schools, I don't have the time to list them, on the web portal I propose a review, totaling around 115 million. This is approximately at the location of 120 municipalities. And once again, when we go to the field, the ground is the right one, giving the right feedback. Not just the terrain, but the key decision makers in the individual statistical region. I look forward to a visit to Pomurska region on Monday and Tuesday. I have been with some of them, and I know what the responses are, and I also want this plan to continue until the end of the term of office. So much for now. Madam Minister, you enjoy our support, as we say yesterday, today, for the rest of your term of office. Well, hold on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The proposaler, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. A few reactions to what now happened to my colleague Horvath in his extremely demagogic and extremely arrogant way. What's wrong with concessions? When the Ministry prepares an invitation to tender for concessions for certain study programmes carried out by universities or higher education institutions, which are in direct or close contact with some sympathizers or even members of the largest government party, then I think all alarms should be ringing here. Once again, in higher education, we do not know such a system of concessions. The break-up or casus belli was carried out by the same government 18 years ago in the 2004-2008 mandate, when the first concession was granted in such a way, then 2013 the Administrative Court managed to reverse a similar case and now this is repeated. The problem is when public funding flows into some of the interests of the private sector, while, of course, you have, if you talk about journalism, a college that has a journalism programme that employs the Minister of Education. So this is wrong with the concessions in this case, which we discussed earlier, about the others in health care and so on we have had many debates. As far as the journey is concerned. No one is talking about travel, we are talking about that there were no Ministers in the key moments when they were supposed to be in Slovenia. The Presidency of the Council of the EU is rather a bubbling argument. The Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union ended long ago, but if not before, at least when the President of the European Parliament himself told our President of the Government to calm down and stop. As far as I understand and as far as we have contacts with some people, meetings on the key topics that are taking place are already happening with France, which will be next to preside over the Council of the European Union. So you, a set of governments, screwed up this presidency. In fact, the President of the Government took over almost the moment Slovenia took over the helm, with its outbreaks and incidents and with clear positions which are practically anti-European. And by putting himself on the side of Visegrad or group V4 he made it very clear how Slovenia feels about the European Union. As far as investment is concerned, especially when we're talking about computers. I agree that it would be necessary to invest more frequently and more continuously in computer equipment, but I would like to stress another point here – and this is also an indication of the Ministry's misinterpretation of digitalisation in schools. We have research, one concrete is happening between 2014 and 2019, resulting in the Stavanger Declaration, which clearly indicates that overuse of electronic devices is particularly harmful for primary school students. This declaration recommends mostly the use of paper books and so on. You've had some experiments with so-called Steve Jobs schools in the Netherlands, where children have been trained with computers and tablets since the first grade, and the consequences have been catastrophic until the fourth grade. They could not read fluently because there was no connection between the subject and the brain, and motorism was also associated with learning. So digitisation is not everything, and it probably concerns this problem when the ministry claims, yes, because everything was fine, schools weren't closed, they just went away. No, that was bad. Something can be done this way, but it leaves consequences on learning achievements and substances, not only substances that can be absorbed in this way, but also on development and ability to strengthen different competences in the study process itself, the learning process. And that's the problem with closing schools. Even if the teaching was far away, it is still not an equivalent lesson and is a lesson that has its shortcomings. That is why the closure of schools or the long course of long - term schooling has been harmful. So much for these very populist statements by Comrade Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič has the floor and will be discussed by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Vice President. And on my part, first of all, a nice greeting to the Minister! I regret that today we are wasting your time and our time for a rather unconstructive debate that goes beyond the limits of good taste which interferes with the field of humiliation, inappropriate discourse, rude, even rude and offensive speech by the proponents of this interpretation. That is why today is essentially a sad day for Slovenian education, because the KUL coalition uses it for its political revenge. What's he taking revenge on? She's actually getting revenge for herself, because she's lost power, because somewhere in the corn for a year and a half, there's a rifle that you don't know and you can't get it and you won't be able to get it. But you're still going to a political battle with, I think, the seventh interpolation. This is proof of your despair and destructive policies. This interpellation, I am sure, will not succeed, as it did not succeed, then a constructive non-truster, and a constitutional indictment, all with the aim of overthrowing this government. This is the second time you've been interpolating against the school secretary. You use the epidemic mainly for political purposes. But it is true that this interpellation, as my predecessor has already said, is recycled and also, yes, well-educated, obviously. Unfortunately, you are not ashamed to play with the health and life of people and to abuse even children for this political struggle. You want to present the Minister as incompetent, immature to some professional challenges, managing the department, and not being an adult for the development of school space. All this is still a legitimate political struggle, but the matter becomes incorrect or goes beyond the limits of political fair play at the moment your assistants from the background join you, and these are various trade union movements and housing associations. In fact, the Minister was literally constantly in these epidemic, difficult conditions on the front, if I may say so, literally surrounded by all sides. Unfortunately, these are my observations, and he also has a fifth column in his department, the minister's department. There, according to our information, there are quite a few staffs left of past ministers, and I doubt that they are entirely loyal to this ministry's leadership. Why are you so persistently using or abusing an epidemic for a political struggle, just to get back to power, and you're acting even in principle, so I'll say, more sick and dead, the worse for this government? Do you think it'll be better for you then, or what? These are truly immoral receptions. Why do I think that is? Because you proved it by your actions. For example, it began with calls from the School without masks, and by refusing to use the app, stay healthy so as not to be followed by an internal minister. Then, if we move forward, even in the National Assembly, there were very demonstration gestures by some Members not to wear protective masks. Members and Members also expressed political support and took part in protests in difficult epidemic situations, publicly, without masks, without protection. Now, in fact, much of all this has been achieved by a concentrated self-testing race at school, which has proved to be so smooth despite all the pollens under its feet, successful that the results of this self-testing at primary school have been very important to curb the outbreak of this wave and that in fact all those supporters who are in the minority who have received too much media attention and also political attention have been defeated. These may be various Facebook experts, parents of children who are in a minority who simply reject all kinds of modern or scientific approaches, and some individual principals or teachers have listened or joined them. I am very sure that these are in the minority and that we are all called, that there is no longer time for some sane majority to remain silent, but we must all in our environment, parents within our class communities, raise our voice and not let the voice take over by a loud minority. This is what we have to do, or this epidemic will never end. If I go back to the given baseline and the interpolation readings. The first and second points are the suspension of the Minister's duty to prepare for the new school year, underestimating the attitude towards school interviewers and incompetence. I think the Minister has explained precisely and concretely how the dialogue with all stakeholders has been conducted, how she has worked for and participated in it, except during the period when she was absent from the hospital. Inadequate lies, however, are reports of the longest closed schools. If I heard one of my predecessors correctly, she pointed out that the schools had been closed for 47 weeks. I think that's the plural after we multiply by just five days that more than one school year, we know that's not the case. Come in. The following observations to the Ministers of Interpellation are a humiliating and unprofessional attitude towards science, research and neglect of higher education and internationalisation of science. Respectable candidates in this place could not have missed more. As far as internationalization is concerned. In the second sentence, you read her too many trips, and I think you know that Slovenia is the President of the Council of the European Union and that under this minister also leads the Council, it has certain obligations. And when you say that our Presidency has already fallen under the assumption that France is on a low-level basis to take over some of our dossiers that we have not realised, some probably do not know, but that the Presidency is taking place within the tria and within the so-called troika, in which it cooperates with the previous Presidency and with the next Presidency State, in order to keep the dossiers under continuous review and to accept matters on a ongoing basis, there is neither duplication nor the omission of certain cases. But I believe most of you don't know that, so it's only right to say it. As far as the neglect of science or non-professional attitude towards research is concerned. Yesterday a Systemic Law on Scientific Research and Innovation was passed, and Mrs Kustec is a regular university professor with an international academic career. I don't think any of the signatories to this interpolation can stand by her professional, scientific and research competences. Maybe it's how he stands up for his own department. This is also evidence of yesterday's adoption of the budget, where funds for its ministry are increased by more than 10% according to previous plans. Multimillion-dollar investments will be designed to modernise and build new educational institutions. Given that this was a very neglected area 10 years ago and that it is known who the Minister was in this area in previous years, I wonder how you could have signed such an interpretation in particular by SD Members. Systemically, the new law previously mentioned and adopted yesterday will also regulate the financing of scientific research activities. A supportive environment will be established for all innovation development processes. Fifth observation – neglect of sports. In the same breath, you can see the Minister's travel and support to Slovenian sports at the Olympic Games in Tokyo, where she played a very active diplomatic role. Moreover, of course investments in the sport infrastructure that are planned. I don't think 48 projects are neglecting sports and sports infrastructure. Next observation – neglecting the mental health of children. Because of closed schools, I really believe that there have been some pressures both by children due to lack of association and by parents and teachers involved in the educational process, because they had to adjust to something new. Surely we all prefer to see each other live and even talk live, exchange views, and learn something new in the conversation, and it could certainly have been a source of certain frustrations, problems. This also represented an obstacle for many parents and for the school premises. But in this wave of the epidemic, the minister has been working hard and has been able to ensure that schools remain open, and see what is happening – getting a knife in the back both by the opposition and by various housing associations because of the excessive problem of all the measures that serve only to keep schools open. So, please, a little consistency in our positions and let's take a little look at the wider picture, and please, let's no longer guess. One last observation – a damaging abolition of the School of Directors. Actually, it's a lie that it's a termination. It's about getting back to the Education Institute, and I don't understand how some change in the organisational form that doesn't have any consequences, not in the implementation of the programme or in the employees, all the employees have kept their jobs, such a political problem. Well, I think the answer's in the palm of your hand. I will conclude by saying that I truly regret that today's discussion of the applicants – with the exception of one, I must be correct, Dr. Vatovec gives all his impressions in a highly cultivated way and it is pleasant then to face it in arguments, while everyone else does not. You know, this debate is not worth this House. In the proposal's presentation, we have heard the rhetoric of humiliation, of collapsing with fascism, of mocking that we are upright liberals, honest Christian Democrats and sermons of dignity. I believe – and you are proving this today with your speeches and appearances – that these are not the values that would be close to Members of the so-called KUL Coalition. What is most sad is that today the sharpest arrows on the minister flew from my female mouth, from my fellow Members' mouth. I did not expect this, but I agree, Minister, with your conclusion, it is difficult to be a woman in politics, even more difficult to be a woman on the wrong side of politics, and you know this very well from your previous experience, because you can compare both of your roles. If you go to the wrong side, then no one can protect you from all the manure that pours on you. Some of you can handle it, some of you can't. He knows who they are. I will conclude that, according to my opinion, the Minister works excellently, well, professionally and very responsible, that she has the first benefit and education of children, students and students and the care of employees, teachers. Unfortunately, this interpolation is some kind of pamphlet and a reflection of powerlessness, and even if you want, a shot to the knee that I don't know how you're doing. As a matter of fact, the rifle is in the corn, but you've managed to shoot yourself in the knee several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm gonna give you a replica because it's already signed up, Natasha Sukič, to tell you where it was misinterpreted or misinterpreted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u98	I was not misinterpreted, but we were all caught up in this mockery of us coming from the KUL coalition, and it flew partly to my debate, and I will explain where. First of all, perhaps in the introduction – a respected colleague, you have now told us so shockingly how rude the discourse is on our side, by using indecisive discourse yourself in the introduction and ending with this rifle in the corn, and on the subject of how we are rushing back to power, by jumping out of power into power. But you have forgotten that you are always on a side that is always in power that has never left power. So you might think a little bit about that fact when you read to others. And second of all, you've been deceiving how many days it is to calculate what 47 weeks is. If you listen to the debate, this is Unesca data, partial and full closure of schools according to table Unesca is: Slovenia in the first place 47 weeks, Czech Republic 46, Latvia 45, Poland 43, Bulgaria 41. We're talking partial and full lockdown, combined. If we are only looking at full closure, respected to tell you, only still practically almost first, in fact we are second, Poland is first – 24 weeks, Slovenia second – 21 weeks. Then followed by the Czech Republic 20 and Bulgaria 18 and Latvia 13. So very infamous records, respected. Partial closure is Slovenia [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u99	My colleague, please, the replica. That wasn't politicized.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u100	I'm explaining. Dearest, do not fall in, she spoke incorrectly and I explain to her, Latvia 32, Slovenia 26, Czech Republic 26, Bulgaria 23, Poland 29 weeks. So, respectfully, the records of our partial or full school closure are catastrophic. That says something's wrong, not that it's a great job as a minister. That means it's a poor job as a minister, right? Because distance learning is by no means comparable to schooling. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. First, to all those who will intervene either procedurally or with replicas. The moment the President reaches into the debate, I recommend that you stop your discussion and listen to what the President has to say. That's the way it is, buddy. The way you do it, I'm not gonna tolerate it anymore. If I intervened, then I intervened and listen to what I say. The second question is whether you will use a replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or decide to have a discussion [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm in charge of the session, and no one else has to do this for me. First of all, he's got a procedural Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you, Vice President. I would ask you, in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, to allow me a replica of the replica, because certain inaccuracies have been made and I would like to respond and explain matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u103	Good. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to information and deception regarding the closure of schools in Slovenia. If you have read Minister Kustec's reply to the interpretation, then you have probably tracked the table on page 7 stating that Slovenia had 154 days of closed school and more than that of Ireland, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Latvia, Romania, Germany, Italy, the United States and Canada. I really suggest that you look at this data and study it in the official response of the Minister to the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Procedurally Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u106	Mr President, Tina Heferle stressed at the beginning of this meeting to the President of the National Assembly that she expects that, even when you come, all Members, positions and opposition will have the same treatment. You just let the replica into the replica while you were interfering with the debate of colleague Natasha Sukič. Between [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u107	Wait a minute. Peace in the hall. Peace in the hall! Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much. You said that when the chairman spoke, the debater should be silent. However, I would like to warn you that it is really not appropriate for you to intervene in the debates of Members and leave us. Because interpolation is just to express criticism of the action of someone who may be loved, perhaps politically close to you, you may be more sensitive to it, but still try to be objective enough to allow those of us who have drawn up the interpolation to also defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I left that, I just warned you earlier, I didn't intervene in the debate, but the replica has a precise purpose and definition. And if the replica is not executed in accordance with the instructions in the Rules of Procedure, then it is not a replica. In such a case, I will always intervene. As far as replication is concerned, it is exceptionally permissible under the Rules of Procedure. So nothing has been done in this part that would not be in line with the document by which the National Assembly works [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You can't do three replicas on a replica. You can have a replica once if someone doesn't understand you. Comrade Dr. Marko Koprivc, you have the floor as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Vice President. This whole thing that's going on is a little grotesque. Now you have just told certain coalition representatives that a replica of the replica is given, while the opposition is not. I'm kind of ready for you to probably take my word again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u111	Comrade Koprivec, just a moment to tell you. A colleague had a replica, a colleague of Gregorčič's replica to the replica, and the next one no one has a replica of the replica. Let's get this straight. Now you can keep going. Give me 30 seconds of supplement to Mr. Koprivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u112	Look, Mr. Tanko, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u113	Supplement 30 seconds for discussion with the applicant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u114	Okay, thank you very much. I'm not going to go into this debate because I've even been thinking about whether or not to call you because things always end by jumping into the word that you're breaking up. I don't doubt that you'll take my word for it by the end of my current intervention, but we're used to it so beneath you, and something will have to be done about it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u115	Depends on the debate, mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u116	Now I'm going to start the debate. Thank you so much for letting me. Mrs. Monica Gregorčič, I wanted to respond to you. In fact, it is now obvious that your tactics at today's interpretation are to put yourself in the role of the victim, to be the victim of both the minister and yourself, your client, the entire government and so on. You said before, not me, that you're obviously not on the right side and that's why you're in trouble. Whether you're on the right side or not, you wouldn't stand up for yourself, that's your word, but you certainly ate the word by joining this government, or you indirectly issued the electorate and the electorate. In fact, before the elections, your president made it clear that he would not go to the government with Janez Janša. Even more, your client was established as an anti-policy entity by John Janša. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u117	Comrade Koprivc, please talk about the interpretation, not the political party, because it has nothing to do with it. They do, by the way, have another president now, if you haven't noticed.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u118	I'm gonna tie myself up, you know. I'm gonna tie myself up. It's connected. And the party was established precisely because you felt that some new, different standards should be established in politics. You've swallowed that word, and that's why we're in the opposition to warn you about it more than once. Especially because we are surprised that a party who has both a declaration level and another, I believed, in my opinion, in a personal way of life some completely different values than this government advocates are said to be primarily undermining fundamental values. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u119	Dude, it's a debate about interpolation, not something else. Please start with an answer or explanation as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u120	I will, Mr. Vice President, I still have time. You know what? If I can't talk, we'll just stop the session, because that's not how it works. That you're falling in now, and that I've already said in the beginning that I have a bad feeling of coming to you because you're going to break up, and now that's exactly what you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u121	You're not going to interrupt this session. You need to know that. We continue the debate. Vojko Starović has the word and will be discussed by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Don't teach. I gave Mr. Starović, when he's finished, will get Mr. Korazzi procedurally [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, he can't jump, can he? Mr. Starovic, please. Mr. Starović, you have the floor. If not, we'll move on after the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. I feel like I'm in a stadium where there are two opposing cheerleading teams that are just reading each other a little bit, and that we have a judge who doesn't know how to run this game according to the same rules. Now I'm going to go to the content. We also estimate in the SAB that in this Slovenia there have been some cuts in our education system that have been unnecessary and missed and have nothing to do with the pandemic, with the covido, but were only used to achieve other objectives. In addition, many of the measures taken in the education system in connection with the pandemic, measures and non-actions have been missed. I know who's working, who's wrong. The covida-19 pandemic was by its own great ignorance, the virus we did not know, neither the expert nor the minister of education nor anyone else, some measures were taken, but also inaction. However, these missed decisions and the failure to decide in the field of education were too much. The results clearly show this. Political responsibility – please, girls, go outside, well, it bothers me, seriously. But it was too much like I said. And the political responsibility for this lies with the minister who is responsible for this department. Also because she did not want to or wanted to listen or could listen to professional circles, to those who work in this school who work in education, from which many comments came from teachers, administrators and others, as well as — now I will use the term I used — nothing to cheer groups from another camp. Or, let me put it this way, members of parliament who are in opposition and who are either on paper or even more than those who are in position. That's unacceptable. On the other hand, she did not firmly resist the instructions and instructions that came from the Cabinet of the President of the Government. We've heard a lot about this. There's been a lot of writing. These instructions from his headquarters, which is inexpertible, incapable of the things for which they give instructions. The Ministry of Education has many capable people who are able to give the right answers to the problems while this has been heard. That's our offense, too. So let's do it again. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, ministers are independent and accountable to the National Assembly. I don't know where this responsibility lies now, when – maybe she had to jump out – the minister isn't when I ask after that [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, I don't know. But I'm just saying she's responsible. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u123	Leave the speaker alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u124	Regarding the speech of the position that the minister was the one who raised money for schools, kindergartens, gyms, sports facilities in this mandate, that they were her credits. Look, I'm a little doubtful about that. Again, I must recall the resistance plan that was first prepared by your Minister and supported by the Government and went to a public debate. So it's a draft. There were promises, there were congregation initiatives, there was a plan from below, and there were promises. I believe that those promises that were made at the time are hard to swallow. That's why I think that's why we borrowed more money and spent it. On the other hand, what we have heard today from my colleague Monica, here I have now said, from whom, about inappropriate insults, housing societies, civil society, trade unions and so on. The words she has spoken do not belong to Parliament. A loud minority needs to be silenced — that is unacceptable. Let's be constructive, talk about the matter, and stop being on one side of Viole, and on the other side Dragons, who fight for nothing, and they also hit each other, and they were also mortal victims. It's not going anywhere. Let us be a parliament where it is allowed to speak and where arguments are to count, not the loudness and violence of speakers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. First, we will give the procedure to Mr Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u126	Madam Vice President, this is the case. The motioner had spoken before, but in the meantime you took away his word or interrupted it during his discussion, and I don't know why. For what reason?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u127	Procedurally, mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u128	Procedural. It's procedural. Why did you interrupt his debate? Because he didn't himself predict that he was interrupting the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u129	I didn't interrupt because he shut himself down. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Dude, that's what happened. There's been a change of order. First of all, Monica Gregorčič's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you very much. It's just a brief replica of Mr Starovic before me to his own eyes to call for a quiet minority to be silenced. You know. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Loud minorities, I'm sorry. You know, there are situations in life, I'm not saying they're always like this, but they come, the situation comes, and the epidemic is such a situation when you need to know how to put yourself on the right side in order to protect health and life. That's it. Then it is the conscience and decision of each individual how he reacts and acts in such a situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić will get the word Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! I don't mind that the Minister isn't here. I understand that she can't sit here all the time. This meeting is going to be very long, and I won't be among the ones we're going to deny her. Besides, for years we've been so deeply connected that I think he knows what I mean by every word I say. But I'm happy to have her back, even though there are two great secretaries of state who are excellent both experts and colleagues. Madam Minister, at the end of your opening speech, you made an important message in the sense that politics has nothing to look for in schools and even less on the shoulders of children, as well as students and students. And that's true. However, I also know that you know that politics, regardless of its color, always has a great appetite for influence in the educational space. I am convinced that as a political scientist – and I appreciate this profession despite the different opinions of some colleagues, and I seriously believe that our society needs it very much – with the academic application you are going through, you realize that school is always ideological. So let's get her into a syntagma. The school is an ideological apparatus of the state. Why am I exposing this? Because all the time I've had your ministry intimately as a former colleague of Bane, and out as a member of Parliament, I have expected you to defend, with your knowledge, experience, political kilometre and your credibility, a school space from that part of politics that really has nothing to look for in schools, universities, kindergartens and all other educational institutions, and that if you find out that it's not, you will expose it publicly and abandon the ship of fraud. I can say that you have successfully defended the school space against those you say today, and so do they, that they are on the other side, and that you are no longer on the side where you used to be. Yes, I am talking about the left political hemisphere, which has its influence in politics. I know that you have felt this at the time of the epidemic and you have defended these pressures, I do not challenge them, but – and this will be crucial in my debate – but you have not defended them all of those ideological pressures that come from the other side of the right. I will talk about this because we expected impartiality from you, because, as we said, politics has nothing to look for in school, but not the receipts for applying an agenda that is far from yours or not yours, I don't know what's right anymore. You did not defend the higher education area when you extended the deadline in the PKP law to meet the conditions for accreditation of higher education institutions. The solution was later overtaken by the Constitutional Court. This is a typical case in which you were doing a favor or perhaps following an order from above without undue consideration. Well, this service wasn't even as ideological as it was materially rich. You did not defend the secondary and primary areas when you wanted to allow students with a vocational degree to enter university studies regardless of the area in which they received this vocational education. What or who forced you to do such a stupid thing — that word recently celebrated by your ministerial colleague — a measure that has been botched to all the principles of honest education? You have not defended the higher education area when in the last days as Miklavž you grant concessions for higher education programmes. For whom and why are you compromising your expertise and knowledge? As a robot you obey a government click, instead of objectively evaluating and at least trying to balance them if you don't refuse. They could, however, because the Court of Auditors has pointed out the shortcomings and irregularities of the legal regime in granting concessions. We could also provide assurance that you will first correct the inadequate legal basis and amend the Higher Education Act and then grant concessions in a transparent manner. But you didn't. You shouldn't have. I think you felt deep down that this was wrong, so you've given all these odd things to the other signatories. But there is no historical blinding, the primary responsibility is yours, even though I wish it were different. You haven't even defended the fact that today, at the head of the state graduation committee, there is a man who has been mentoring more diplomas and dissertations who have been investigating the character and work of your current boss. What's different than the state's ideology? Left and right are looking a lot at schools in one way or another and that, Minister, you know, and it didn't look like you were fighting to make it any different. I want to believe that you are, but that this fight remained hidden behind the door of the government room or some other. A historical memory would be useful if you could talk about it. It is simply hard to believe that a woman with such a life - style allows her to be abused so badly in one year and loaded with so much insurrection. Is this worth the cathedral in any kind of hand-to-hand-burned new college? Is it worth all those lectures you went to as a young professor, even though your superior didn't want to pay you any gas? Remember your youthful fervor before deciding on the choice of studies and political views that enabled you to study the art of possible. And remember when you launched mists from the horizon to political virgins in the largest parliamentary group in the history of Slovenia, when we sought identification in the client-parliamentary processes. How did you land on the trenches of the execution of an ideology that was foreign to you? That's the only question I can't answer. You were a lighthouse, and all that was left of the lighthouse was a back of the head, a back of the head. I'd like to, but I don't see a bridge where we, Simon and Bane, could still meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec has the word, and Nick Prebil will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, the rest of the Minister, colleagues and colleagues, all together, a nice greeting! I will begin by saying that, in my opinion, the interpretation is ridiculous, to a large extent pathetic, that some of the apparent causes and demagogies of the proponents are cited. If we look at only the causes of the interpolation, here are not listed violations of laws or constitutions, but these are also political, even personal judgments, many times for discredits, and, for example, in point 4 on scientific and research activities also ecclatic lies. I am lucky or unhappy that I have been following the work of all ministries very actively since 2005 and I am very sorry that we are talking today about who is better or worse, but if you have left your verdicts, I will also allow it. If I look at the former minister and the current minister, the difference is obvious. Since the full Flossules of the previous minister, who, for example, had 22 trips or trips in 2019, we have here a minister who works, adopts laws, executes the judgments of the Constitutional Court and is, despite the fact that Slovenia holds the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, more home than abroad. I consider it an extraordinary honor for her to go to support our Olympic heroes at the Olympics. It is also true that the work of the Ministry of Education is very broad, both vertically and horizontally, and that this ministry is difficult to manage in normal years. However, it is a fact that this ministry would be easier to manage a minister who is extremely left-handed in political, ideological beliefs. Because that's exactly what's been going on for the last eight, 10 years. And then when a middle man comes who may even want to please the wide circle, he has officials on the one hand who are still very grateful if you want to be subject to the former ministers, and on the other hand the idea of the current minister or her team who wants to do what has not been done in recent years. And when this minister wants to do anything, she gets a wall of defense. He gets a defence wall of about 7% of the employees at the Ministry of Education, he gets a defence wall of at least 30% of the different principals, teachers, dean and all the other employees in the school who want nothing to change, he gets media attacks and personal discredits for one simple reason. Because Simona Kustec, former leader of the SMC Group, was a well-groomed lady, a skilled coalition partner, and suddenly, because of another coalition, she received a large target on her back. So much for these people who worship you when they need you, and they pour manure on you when you step out of their ideological bubble, when you represent those values that I think should be represented by at least all the parties who shout, how they are members of the European Liberal Group or ALDA. Last of all, we have also heard today that the problem is whether you are a minister or a minister who jumps on TV every day and hunts cameramen like that or other media houses to tell you what you think about the whole world, about the Slovenian education system, or about some director not respecting the constitution, laws, or even fewer decrees and regulations. Personally, I think it is better for a minister to do much more than what we have seen in recent times — we have MPs who are more present in the lobby in front of cameras than they are working here in this House of the National Assembly. I looked at the minister's response, and I thank her for almost too much response to the blisters or to the distortions in the interpolation. I must say that, in fact, this reply has also sent for the further work of every serious minister in this area. Maybe there's some information missing in there. Example. We've heard about how you don't know what happened to last year's prom. And I would be surprised if you would now ask one of the predecessors who had so much to say about the graduation, how many pages and how many graphs and how many tables there are in the report on the graduation for 2020 – 204 pages. In my opinion, even too much. And when we talk about numbers and the number of legal acts — 23 of the rules — apparently still too few. These rules, regulations and laws are discussed most closely by those who, on the one hand, are the ones that are most shouting about how education autonomy is needed and, on the other hand, they would also like guidance on how individual sheets are removed from individual papers within the class community. In short, one is how we need to be independent, even by some political leaders, and on the other hand, we need precise instructions on about 80 pages on how to handle each thing, and they are waiting and waiting for the blessing of the Minister for what is very familiar to the average citizen and does not need any guidance. On the other hand, I'd touch two more things. One is the politicization of education and the other profession. The politicalization of education in this mandate is being discussed by those who have defended this education centre not only for the last eight years, but have not been released for at least the last 30 years. Those who don't let anything else think as they thought, I'll say in those days when there were black and white TV screens, what we watched most of the time. In short, if in the last eight years a name is identified and is to be upgraded with someone else, it is the politicisation of education, as all the applicants believe that all those extreme left-wings in the field of the school system are the only ones to be saved and any change is unprofessional. As we have seen today, there are also personal attacks on people who, for the first time, are not here, and, secondly, the people who have been placed on certain functions, if you want the dean, by the former, Sharča government. But they don't like it anymore because these gentlemen were supposed to be mentors to one or two prominent representatives of the SDS, and probably a lot of people went through his hands within the school system, far left, visible or invisible. But I don't think we should even discuss this. Speaking of the higher education system, I must congratulate you, Minister, and thank you for extending the higher education space that you allow all those who think that Ljubljana may not be the only saving capital of university life in Slovenia, that there are at least two more, three, four more, I hope, serious institutions in Slovenia outside Ljubljana that have or want to have a university. Today, there was also talk about how the minister must or should not listen to the profession, how he should listen only to the educational profession. But I think he's also in the department of expertise who probably supports the minister. And if there's a political profession there, I hope the minister doesn't listen. If a non-governmental representative comes across cameras here and there and is called the only and saving profession, I think the Minister has every right and, in my opinion, the duty not to listen to such individuals who claim to be the only ones to be saved. And when we're talking about a cobbler, we can, we want or we don't want to admit that we're not just coming from the educational profession, that we have a health professional on the other hand, where this KUL coalition sometimes says, yeah, you have to listen to this expertise, and secondly, you don't. Last but not least, the medical profession said we should close the schools. And since the government hasn't closed them down, you're in trouble again. We have an economic profession, we have other professions, but obviously in Slovenia comes to the forefront of the Facebook profession, which is known for education, it is known for health, it learns about economics and finance, but it is all in theory and in speculation. That we're not just gonna be in words. I am very sorry that we do not have a bigger screen so that at least the citizens can take a closer look at what the KUL coalition does not want to hear what was done in the measures at the time of the epidemic. I'm not going to mention how many million for each action, because it would take me at least five minutes. Next thing you know, the movement of all resources at the Ministry of Education. All those who have talked so much about how to give more money to education have received it under this minister and this government. Everyone wins, but the secretary has an interpolation award, and she has to defend herself. Last but not least, it was said today that we should have some air - cleaning devices. But the ministry provided the opportunity for people or schools to buy certain air - cleaning devices. This was already paid at 11.1 million, the money was available and it was used, but apparently the real one still didn't get enough. Resources for activities that are important for maintaining and strengthening the mental health of children and young people – €50,000 more than the former Minister of Salvation. I'm going to touch on an ecclesiastical lie in the interpretation of scientific research and innovation. All the former ministers of salvation have been for years and years. I apologize. We had ministers who didn't know whether to give a special law on scientific research or to give a law on higher education together, or whether they didn't know what to do, and they didn't do anything. And this minister cut off the Gordy knot and the law was passed. Not only has the law been passed, we will finally get closer to what is said to be 1% of GDP for the study activity and for the scientific research activity. That talk of all the former ministers, how they're going to handle it, was arranged by this government and this minister. Funds for science and the information society are also increasing each year. Example: in 2018 185 million, in 2021 251 million. Some talk and others work. I will conclude with one story that touches each and every one of us, every mayor and every resident. Co-financing of municipal investments from 3 million in 2021 to 19 million. Co-financing of investments, a famous invitation to tender, a huge number of applications, and we have taken care, together with the departmental ministry, that all those who met the conditions have received funds for investments in kindergartens, education, school nationalities and sports facilities. Over 200 objects. And don't worry, we haven't finished investing in preschool, school and sports infrastructure. Before the end of the term of office, we will provide additional funds through the Ministry and this government coalition. What others have talked about, we work in this government and with the help of this department. In short, there is also a myth that this minister did nothing for sport. She has supported our Olympic heroes, awarded financial rewards to all those who are successful in European, world championships, and all young people will receive new projects, new infrastructure projects for which individual local communities have been waiting for 10 years. In short, because the minister and this government are working, she gets the minister instead of the congratulations and compliments the interpellation. That is what this KUL policy looks like, and since I cannot accept this KUL policy, I will be pleased to confirm the Minister's further work tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Lady, Comrade Vatovec, first the replica? [[Yeah.]] Good. Here you go, replica, Lydia Wilderness Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you, President, for your word. Mr. Lisco would answer [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u137	Can I just have a little louder to hear?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u138	Yeah, thanks. Only to Mr Lisco would I answer because I recognized myself in the part where he said that some were talking about ventilation systems and that, I quote, what he said, “the money was available, but apparently the real money was not yet enough.” End of story. Whatever he was going to say, I'm going to read to him what one of the principals wrote to me about getting the money. I asked her how much money they had received and what they had done with it or what instructions they had. "Surely not for ventilation systems. We buy disinfectants, masks, employee tests, gloves, bags. I don't know what else, if anything else, is left, because they pay us just finesse." So much for saying that, in your opinion, you haven't gotten enough money for the ventilation systems. I would suggest to my colleague that he be a little careful with his words, and he is even careful that something is flat out there in one day, without any talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you, Vice President. Procedural first. We have heard several times that interpellation is not based on some specific violations of laws or something, and on Twitter you have now begun to play this interpretation. If you read Article 118 of the Constitution, it is very clear to you, 10 Members can interpellate the work and responsibility of the Minister. It doesn't say he has to break the law, I don't know what, so we have the Institute of Constitutional Prosecutions for the President of the Government or the Minister of the Republic and so on. Similarly, the Rules of Procedure add that it must be clearly explained what the question of this interpretation is. And we have mentioned seven, in the first interpolation even more, seven well-founded views to the ministers, who are now still without a concrete answer. Comrade Lisec, you said the profession suggested closing schools. Here. However, it also proposed at the beginning of the epidemic last year that schools close last year, and the government easily overturned this opinion and first closed schools and then left open shopping centres, hair salons and other service activities. After it all broke down, you closed it all down, but the damage was already done. And it went the other way. First you started opening these same hair salons, massage salons, even casinos, casinos, shopping malls and so on and the schools opened last. So you don't now talk about the profession and who takes care of it, who doesn't, because every decision to be taken is about how to correct the records, because someone made a mistake at these meetings, the minutes are guilty and so on. As far as the numbers you keep giving are concerned. All right, there are some additional investments, that's also at the expense of wage increases, it's also at the expense of the additional expenditure that happened due to the epidemic itself, but these figures don't speak and say anything about the state of education during the covide. This is our observation – that the ministry has not prepared itself and has not done enough to limit the impact of education on the distance and other social consequences of the epidemic and that it has not done enough to address these consequences. These are obvious, not that you are now listing the laws that have been passed. Yes, they were. If you ask me, the adoption of the ZOFVI was a big mistake and a huge damage to the school space. The fact that concessions are granted to some private colleges that are close to your client is a shame to me for this country. And so on. So these are the things that are harmful. Once again, you forget the very specific effects that long-distance education has had. I understand that this was something that needed to be done, could have been done to a lesser extent, more controlled, with better measures, but there are no measures to correct this and obviously, this is evident from the Minister's response, a lack of a basic consideration that there is no classroom = laptop or personal computer at home. Because it is forgotten that access to the Internet and access to electronics is not only enough to make this equation between home and school. The problem is, and research has been done that there is also a problem in skills. Students, as well as their parents from more vulnerable environments, from more vulnerable backgrounds have worse skills to use Internet communications technology. This also affected the ability to learn remotely and so on. These tests, once again, I didn't hear them, I didn't see them. Studies were done by research institutes at home and abroad on this, but the ministry remains deaf to these issues and this is problematic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Nick Prebil has the word, and only Bevk will get the word after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Minister who is sorry is not, the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The story about this interpolation is actually quite long and there are some things that need to be addressed. Perhaps in this implementation I would focus mainly on the part that touches children and especially young people. The fact is that the epidemic, which is still going on, has not been declared, but, nevertheless, has worsened the mental health of children and adolescents. This is a fact, this is also shown by a number of studies. Also, student representatives, the student organisation based on these studies called on the government to act, but, as usual, failed on this side. Finally, the National Institute for Public Health called for systematic and immediate action in support of children and their mental health. Nothing, of course. The Minister’s answers to this observation are, of course, in her manner — that the research was carried out and that the study was designed to look at this data. I don't know. Study study, obviously. I used to listen from that side to where the money goes for the studies, and we can see that there are also quite a few of them with Minister Kustechev, and there are no results. Second thing, a speech about shutting down the principals' school. Now, of course, you are saying that it was some transformation, however, because, nevertheless, it was only done and solely to silence those who could not be heard by this minister. And, of course, the ministry also makes it clear, without any difficulty, that this is a decision based solely on political arguments, because it was thus enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. Great. At the beginning of the epidemic, of course, this government accused students and students, young people of spreading the virus at parties, and you were shown that this was not the case. Well, today he's accused of having children in primary schools spreading the virus. This is all happening on the one hand, because neither the Minister nor the Government could prepare the measures in time, nor were the movements made in time, but I believe that the money is no longer available, given that we had a country locked up everywhere with more than half of the lower infections. I think that here, at least in most of the opposition or the whole work, if I may say so, we agree, as well as many others, that the Minister for Children and Youth has done little or nothing. The principals of kindergartens, the principals of primary schools, and the principals of high school, all clearly and in one voice say that there is nothing from this minister, that there are no timely instructions and clear answers, that some measures are pointless and change from day to day, just as the circulars fly from today to tomorrow. You know, it's really hard to work, and I believe that then there are discontents and certain rebellions of their kind as well. And what are you doing today, Your Honor? Same again. You're making the most of your actions in schools, instead of making them last, like you didn't learn anything from that first part. It may already be true that schools were not closed for the longest time, or the details are different, but they were extremely long closed. 150 days of school closure is not small and is too long, colleagues and colleagues, because the consequences for mental health and the loss of knowledge experienced by young people, children, not one generation, more of them, are great. Here I will quote from an interview by the Minister or made with another lady, the head of the children's psychiatry. She said that they had not met with such a rush after that and that services operate at 200%. And then he adds: "This is about the generations on which society will settle in the future, and with the ministry we remain on two separate shores, as if we were not talking about the same children or the same situation." These are the experts who are telling you where there is no result from this minister. And in another interview that was just recently made clear, the principals once again say they don't know what is actually going on, that there are no clear instructions, they don't listen to the principals, they throw them into the same basket, the culture of dialogue is bad, they just want to hear specific instructions on how to teach. This is reality, colleagues and colleagues. These are the facts, and that's what the Minister didn't do, and that's what's obvious in this interpretation. I'm also wondering, here might be nice to get an answer before the hateful thing happens again, the secretary actually replied that those who will be home will be home, okay, that those who are in the classroom will be in the classroom, they'll test themselves. But now I really want to know how to teach in these cases. Will the teachers have one hour in the classroom and then another hour at home, or have you already managed to install cameras, videoconferencing systems, and so on, that things will go as they should? Because the level of knowledge that children get online is not the same as what they get when they interact live. I'm sorry. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I agree that they have a choice now, colleague, I agree, but you forgot that they didn't have this choice when the schools were closed for 150 days and the consequences had already come. But I'm just wondering, because I'm wondering if we're not going to talk again in a week, why things aren't arranged and things are still a little bit surprised, even though we've been in this situation for almost two years. That we will not — or that we may repeat ourselves a little longer. I must draw attention to the matter which has already been pointed out, namely that most of the decisions or procedures prepared by the Ministry under the direction of this Minister or prepared in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister have been signed by the Minister, and that most of the decisions made by the Ministry have been illegal and unconstitutional. Let me remind you of the Constitutional Court's decision that schools and institutes must be opened immediately for children with special needs. Here were the damage and the backlog really great, and in LMŠ we have warned you from the very beginning that we should pay more attention to this, that it is for children whose progress is slightly slower and the decline so much faster. And of course ignorance on your part, as always. Not to mention repealing other articles, last but not least, the Constitutional Court has now told you that distance education is unconstitutional and more than that. In this interview I mentioned earlier, the minister even said that she really couldn't clone. I thank God! Can you imagine having two of these? On the one hand, I'm really sad, and I'm almost sorry for the secretary, because somehow I feel that her orientations don't come from her, but it's kind of suggested or ordered, and she's blindly doing it. I don't know. It's kind of sad. The Minister said in the middle "things are done, we accepted it, we accepted it, we accepted it". It is clear to me that some things have been done because they have been avoided because they are made by officials with whom the Minister is not even involved and they are passed by the Minister. The question is, does he even know what was done, even if he knows everything that wasn't done? And when you speak there on the other side – your esteemed colleague Lisec, here I have to respond to you – how you gave everything and what you will build, and how many millions went there, and how many millions went there, yes, I agree, you did, but you know what you gave? You've given the poofs. You've given 10 billion poofs and these 10 billion poofs on these kids who couldn't go to school for 150 days. That's what you gave them. Congratulations. That's great. And there is another fact — that we could not give these 10 billion if the fiscal rule were still in force and if we did not have an epidemic. We couldn't give any of that away. So this boasting with these poofs slowly exceeds some tolerance of taste in this house. But I have to respond to one more thing, and the Minister really upset me when she spoke in her opening speech, and I will quote her because I wrote: “We are in control of the period and this is an opportunity for development.” Dear Minister, have you eaten any mushrooms in between? How can you express such things in this house? “We control the crown period.” Now, tell me, is more than 4,000 people infected daily for your control? [[advertising from the hall]] I'm telling everyone, including the minister who's not here, and it's her duty to be here, colleague. Well, maybe it's being monitored online. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can you please be quiet, colleagues and colleagues?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u143	Don't bother the debater, please. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President. Is this control for you, Your Honor, 4000 infected? Is it a lack of information and measures for you to manage, as stressed by schoolchildren? Is it for you to control that after almost two years of covida we don't have masks for kids in school? Is it for you to control the epidemic? Is it control that, even now, today, you do not provide the appropriate equipment to carry out distance learning if this should happen in full? Of course not. And I wonder if it's your control that we have more than 5,000 dead today because it didn't take action when it was supposed to? I really don't like the way this house hides information and then sells it to others. The easiest thing to do is to make a sacrifice and pretend that it's just and just an attack that's happening because the truth is sometimes very painful. Once again, it seems to me that locking up children, students, students, young people is, however, always and in all respects, a wrong strategy. I think I can say here, on behalf of all young people, that no one will blame me, that young people always want knowledge, some socialisation, and that they want open schools, even if sometimes they have a different view of it. My appeal is, given that the profession you speak to is thinking from day to day, because it's not a profession that you would listen to, but it's a profession that listens to you, a policy, so it's a political profession and a political decision that we've seen in countless cases. That way we won't get too far. In my opinion, the Minister is simply not on the side of children, students and students. At least after what we've seen so far, it's not on the side of knowledge and some socialisation, and it's not even on the side of young people. I'm gonna stop at this point right now. As it is said, because of all these perceptions already defined in the interpretation which I believe is justified, I will support the discharge of the Minister. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Replica, Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I think I was misunderstood in my debate because I was not talking about poofs, but I was talking about the facts that are also reflected in the budgets that we adopted just a few days ago, and we were talking about actual needs, a respected young MP from the LMŠ. We talked about what people expect, whether we have it in the budget or we have it covered by European funds or something else. We were talking about over 200 projects your government couldn't get on the road. We also talked about a project that was before this year of entertainment, because this country also spent money on the construction of the Kamnik elementary school, which was formerly just a mirage. So we don't give people poofs, but we give people hope that through walls they can make the life of children in kindergarten easier, the life of children in primary schools easier, and, finally, give young people the opportunity to get adequate sports infrastructure. But the last discussion reminded me of that famous river that if left-wing people knew about the economy, they wouldn't be left-handed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word and will be discussed by Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I'm going to talk about three things, technical support for distance learning, a Mariborian student protest, and a little bit about methods of governance. In view of the annual report for 2020, the Ombudsman also dealt with education. In the chapter of the report on the state of social activities, the Ombudsman pointed out that students at a time when distance education was carried out in Slovenia because of the coronavirus had not yet had the same opportunities to learn. The Ombudsman also pointed out that the measures envisaged to limit the spread of coronary disease could have a major impact on socially excluded and vulnerable groups. The Ombudsman also noted that distance learning was largely based on access to information technology and provided for the active role of parents, who have thus largely replaced and assumed the role of teachers. Furthermore, the Ombudsman reports that there were more than 100 families in Slovenia who did not have access to the Internet, the computer or the printer and even the paper. Printing educational content was also a major problem for such families. At one of the meetings of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, the situation turned out to be even more serious as State Secretary Damir Orehovec said that, according to a November 2020 survey, about 5,000 students did not have access to the Internet. So much more than is stated in the report of the Ombudsman. This is all the more topical, since in the fourth wave of the epidemic we have again a large or remarkable increase in coronary disease and the intrusion of the virus into schools, and today there are still very many school departments back in school in the distance. It is therefore essential to provide adequate technological support for learning, as very many students and families in Slovenia do not have access to the internet, the computer and not the printer. As I said during the first interpellation, of all the actions or statements made by the Minister of Education, Dr Simone Kustec, I was most disturbed by the statement that the convicted Maribor students would take responsibility for their actions when they demanded to return to the school bench at the protest meeting. Instead, they should be taken to the defence and defended at the government's meeting against state repression and the draconian punishments of the police. Instead, she said that it was young adults she believed to understand and also take responsibility for their actions. As we know, in the case of Maribor, the trial ended in favour of a student named Matica Gosak, and the judge even apologized to him. As in the article entitled Dijak Gosak and his right wrote by Del’s journalist Ali Jerdin, the gesture of a judge who apologized to Matic Gosak on behalf of the judiciary is not good enough. “Matic Gosak has awaited his right in court, and therefore Dzik Gosak,” continued journalist Jerdin, “not the victim of judicial harassment, was the victim of State harassment.” It would be appropriate for Minister Simon Kustec to take advantage of today's debate and to make public apologies for this case on behalf of the Government. And a little bit more about how to rule. It is very obvious that the President of the Government has nine secretaries in his cabinet. As far as I know, none of its predecessors have afforded such a rich and rich cabinet, since the secretaries cover a number of areas such as international relations, matters related to the European Union, national security, health, debirocratisation, defence, government liaison with the National Assembly, the Coronavirus epidemic, crafts and the economy and, of course, education and sport. In all these cases, it is a matter of some kind of superminister or extension of the term of the President of the Government, who actually manages or at least supervises individual departments, although Article 110 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia expressly states that individual ministers are independent and accountable to the National Assembly within their respective powers. What's more, it's a reserve government. One was elected to the National Assembly and the other, with much greater power, sits in the Cabinet of the President of the Government. In previous governments, State secretaries were only co-ordinators without special powers and without powers at ministerial level. As we could read in the magazine Reporter, I quote literally: “On 18 March, Prime Minister Janez Janša authorized the Secretary of State in his office, Marjana Dolinška, to assist in the performance of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport tasks within the powers given to him by the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. As stated in the mandate, the Secretary of State is responsible for managing and coordinating the Ministry's work in the fields of investment, sport, digitisation and labour of the Government from its work area. It may also sign documents relating to those areas. Among other things, financial transactions documents; documents in public procurement procedures, including contracts, other than procurement and procurement proposals; documents in procurement procedures, competitions and other financing procedures, including contracts; other contracts and documents following the substantive obligations of the Ministry; documents sent to administrative and other bodies, legal and natural persons.’ That's the reporter. According to the Slovenian Press Agency's report of 7 October 2021, according to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport's reply to the question sent by Ambassador Lidija Dijak Mirnik, the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government instead of the Minister of Education, signed 46 documents with a financial impact of € 160 million. We would do well to put an end to such a way of ruling and go to elections as soon as possible. In fact, Slovenia deserves more. I'll support the interpolation, as I say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. She will be discussed by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I guess we'll both be done in 40 minutes, and I hope we can spend those 40 minutes together. I'll do my best and you can have it. We are now in the second interview of Education Minister Simone Kustec. If it had happened in February last year and had been supported by a sufficient number of Members, it would probably have solved a number of hardships, a life of many, especially children's hardships. For here is our minister in her defense — but I am very sorry that she does not listen to my words because I would like to say them to her, not to the secretary of state or to the camera. I've had a lot of talk with the cameras in my life, and I'd like to have a man in front of me. But unfortunately, it probably won't happen. The secretary explained to us here and showed us the graphs of how covid grew. I get the feeling that Mrs. Secretary of Health is not for education. What would interest me from the secretary in her response would be some graph, some statistics on the mental problems of adolescents, self-harm, suicide, depression. For this is something that has caused her crime and her devastating misdeeds. You know, there were no preparations ever for the next school year, and the schoolchildren complained all the time that they might find out on Sunday night what action was due Monday morning. Of course, the government did not take these measures, especially Janez Janša, who is in charge of the epidemic, and not medically or otherwise. You mentioned Marjana Dolinska, 160 million euros in signed contracts. Yes, when SMC met, she met around Mir Cerar, who on the basis of his father's good name received a record number of Members. Unfortunately, I quote, “too many opportunists came to this party” so that Miro Cerar stepped out of the party bearing his name. One of such far - right politicians was Marjan Dolinšek, who was used usefully by the government of Janez Janša today and at that time. Minister Kustec Lipicer is also in her defense – and this really hurt me the most – said that we are attacking her because she is a woman. You know, that's a lot of stuff. Mrs Simona, as a member of the previous Parliament, was the author of the most sexist statement in that mandate and referred to me personally: “It is easier to listen to you if you have a shorter wing.” I didn't want to comment on that at the time, but today, when someone refers to her as a woman and that's why we're attacking her, you know, and I don't know where. This is unacceptable because we criticize her work, not her sex or sexual orientation. And let's be clear, because this is really unacceptable. Her poor work contributes to an even worse situation for women. For we know – apparently the minister does not understand how sexual inequality works and the inequality of women – her disastrous management of this department has pushed women into an even worse position. I don't know if any man would show less understanding and compassion for the children and the women who are victims of this epidemic. For women were those who left their jobs; women were those who were teachers and teachers of their children and guardians, and gave support. At the same time, the minister supports the government, which runs an anti-social policy, which directly affects women in the care professions, calls themselves carers and nurses, pays the worst and is forced to leave their jobs. They work at the clinical center for 12 hours, and then we wonder why they're leaving. It also supports a government that flirts with politics such as Poland, where refugees and children are calmly watched and water cannoned, which even in Slovenia copy the model of Polish meetings for life, where women are entitled to abortion, women who are underpaid, women who know for certain children that they will not be able to take care of them. And that same woman today says we're attacking her because she's a woman. The 8th of March Institute immediately responded to its statement, and if anyone, then the 8th of March Institute advocates women's rights. I know that colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik has already quoted this record, but there was no minister at the time. I was hoping he'd be here now, but he's not. But I have to do it again. The minister said: "I reject all the evidence of interpretation also on the basis of the fact that the criticisms of my work by the left opposition are based on mechanisms to silence a woman, not take her seriously and humiliate her with insults." This was highlighted by Simon Kustec in his defense of interpolation. As a woman, as a mother, I am appalled at her answer, appalled to heaven. It's a shame, Mrs. Simona Kustec, wherever you are now. “The criticisms of your work”, I read, 8 March Institute, “are not based on the fact that you are a woman. The criticism of your work is based on the fact that you are an extremely poor minister.” Many have already assessed, especially schoolchildren and part of the profession, the worst minister in the history of Slovenia. In short: “Not all women are in the same position, you have the power and authority that comes with responsibility. The responsibility to do your job. And you're doing bad. More specifically, you don't do your job at all. We judge you according to your work and content, and all the signs that are pointed at you today would be the same, even if they were men. You're the minister who let shopping malls stay open longer than schools. You're the minister who's responsible for the tremendous rise in the mental distress of young people. You are a minister who fails to inform the principals and principals of the new working conditions and many educators and educators in an extremely difficult position. You're a minister who acts corruptly. You are the minister who has allowed many children from disadvantaged families to fall out of the learning process. Because they didn't have computers. Because they didn't have the equipment. Because the first language of their parents was not Slovenian. You're a minister who'd rather jump to the Olympics in the summer than in the winter to Paris than face a terrible situation in the country. You're a silent minister. You're the minister of empty flossules. You're a minister who destroys higher education. You're the minister who screwed up practically everything. But you're also a minister who's taken care of deepening gender differences. According to the research we did at the Institute on 8 March, women took themselves during the epidemic most of the schoolwork. According to the research we did at the Institute, women's income decreased during the epidemic. According to a study we did at the Institute on March 8, the mental state in households deteriorated. How dare you talk about the criticisms of your work being placed on women's silence mechanisms? You were quiet when your Prime Minister Tejo Jarc sent you to a psychiatric hospital. You were quiet when your Prime Minister spoke to the press about prostitutes. You were silent when your government members went to meetings against abortion. You were quiet when people in positions of power insulted NGOs. Because you really don't care about women's rights. Because it's really just about you and your power. Simona Kustec, you're not a victim of the patriarchal society, you're the machine that drives it. In fact, you are proof that women's quotas in politics do not mean actually better policies, only their content is important. Since we are judging by the content, we would report the same to you even if we belonged to any other parliamentary party. Even if we weren't part of this government. And to say what you said today: “My future work will be the same as before, for the sake of children and young people, for interpretation and for the virus,” is just another proof that you have to leave. P.S. Such a distortion of being a woman, but it is also very disrespectful to all those women who are actually in a subordinate position because of their sex." Thank you so much for letting me read this. Now let me tell you that 10% of teenagers didn't have access to the computer and the inequality between children has increased tremendously. We know that school is one of the rare institutions where both the poor and the rich are about at the same time, spending their time together, playing together, learning together, and eating together. Thus, 15% did not have a place of their own where they could learn, and without the help of parents or teachers, there were 27% of them. One parent had to work, and many children were alone at home. 46% of adolescents report that their home has worsened the financial and social situation as a result of the pandemic. In doing so, some youths even responded that they literally starved because they had no money for food. Let me remind you, many have lost their jobs and many children are still getting their only warm meal today, as we assured Levica in the previous term, at school. The only warm meal. The social differences in the first wave have deepened greatly. What exactly happened between autumn 2020 and August 2021, and we really don't know. 93% of adolescents are from wealthy families and 27% are at risk of developing mental health problems. I don't know if you're aware of how many mental problems, how many self-inflicted injuries and depression are among teenagers, even self-inflicted. That's what I'd like to talk about today, not the flossules that insult me. They really insult me. In short, on the basis of all these data, each relatively capable minister and at least every approximately functional government shall act without delay. But it's not like that. The minister didn't see the problem in the first interview before a good year and she doesn't see it today. She lives in her world as is probably the whole government, and the victims of this government and these ministers will not only be students, students, teenagers, but in fact an entire generation. What is being done to these generations, we will see in the years to come what kind of people these affected children will grow up to be. And I'll tell you something else. When I listened to Minister Kustec in her defense, which you members of the coalition applauded very much, it seemed to me as if it had been written by Janez Janša himself. Covid is very pervasive, and the same is true — when you get infected with him, you’re in there very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you very much for this excellent contribution. We continue the debate. Andrej Chernigoj has the word, followed by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u152	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished Minister and colleague Simon Kustec! To begin with, I would like you to receive sincere congratulations on your work so far. Your work is difficult to compare with your predecessors because of an invisible enemy, but it is also clear from your presentation today, which I have here before me, and your slides even to the general public and citizens and citizens that your achievements go beyond the achievements of your predecessors. This is seen very clearly in the record budget of the ministry, which has never been so large, in successful resolution and preparation for this year's school year, which also shows 10. 11. 2021, when a meeting was held at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport with the principals of primary and secondary schools, in the successful implementation of distance learning, as well as [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u153	May I have your attention, please? Respect your colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u154	It's very rude that people are wrong, but unfortunately we're already used to it. The success of distance learning also proved to be an excellent success at the graduation. If we look at the results, 97% of all candidates and candidates were successful, the year before, if we look at it, only 94% and in 2019 only 90%. Apparently, the Minister is doing something very right and very well, according to the results. It would also stop at an extraordinary future investment after 10 years in 120 municipalities. Here we have a map, in 120 municipalities in schools and primary schools, there is almost no municipality in Slovenia where a new school or kindergarten will not grow. Here, too, I would like to thank the Minister very much for all the funding of the gym and elementary school in Illyrian Bistrica, which after more than 40 years of this was more than necessary. We're going to law school now. We are very pleased here that, on a proposal from the Ministry and in particular from the Ministers, we have been able to adopt the Law on the Treatment of Children and Youths with Emotional and Behavioral Problems and Disorders in Education and Education. First time. Second, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens. Thirdly, the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation, which was a tough nut for many of the previous government. And the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was worth only EUR 200,000, was ideologically very burdensome for the previous government. In the debate itself, I listened and heard some nonsense. It is very clear to me that the 2019 prom did not take place under this government if it was around May 2019 and our government started in March 2020. Maybe those millions, billions, are back here again, they should be a little more exact. Let’s use the example of your father’s coming in with a motorcycle on fire before primary school to make use of it as an example of insufficient communication with your parents — are you kidding? That's unacceptable! There are no citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia who would believe you here. And about the information that the schools are the longest closed. I agree as a parent, every day when the kids weren't at school, it's too day, but it's not an accusation, Minister. Let us understand here only the situation of an invisible enemy. I'll make another case. Another motioner just arrived. A month ago, in this Chamber, the secretary of state was misunderstood by the jerks' hands, but he apologized. Will the motioner be able to do that to the distinguished minister? We'll see about that, but I don't think so. For the end of the performance assessment. Citizens and citizens find it hard to believe an assessment of the extreme left party if, in the same breath, this party assesses its candidate as a super, the most successful candidate for the President of the European Commission. Young people have adopted a difficult situation of self-testing at school, which they have done with excellence. I thank all the dedicated principals, teachers and parents. Unfortunately, only one part of the opposition sees this problem and inspires it, planned, with a desire for power. Unacceptable and ineligible in the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word, and the Mag will discuss it. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all present, especially Minister Simoni Kustec and Secretary of State! It's hard to listen to all this all day. In fact, the proponents of this interpretation today are smart about what's wrong, but even before the epidemic actually started, you got scared and ran away. It's the easiest thing to do today. Why the minister traveled abroad, why she was in Paris, Tokyo, many were troubled. I would really like to ask you if you even know that Slovenia is the President of the Council of the European Union. Do you have any idea how many extra activities our ministers have? I guess not. And unfortunately, our media, our televisions don't even show that. They only show your opposition well-being, protests and things like that. The fact that Slovenia presides over the Council of the European Union and how much more work and travel ministers have, unfortunately, is not important to anyone, especially the media. And that the Minister was in Tokyo – she was also there on behalf of all sports ministers, including the Ministers for Sport of the European Union. It represents all the ministers of the European Union at a wide range of meetings or leads the consultations. If we're going to the interpolation lab. If I stop at the first, the suspension of the duty of irresponsibly neglecting preparations for the new school year 2021/2022 in known epidemiological conditions is recorded. If you listened to the Minister in the beginning, she made it very clear, even in the material, in response to the interpolation we have even a table of all the meetings held from mid-June to the end of August, 26 of them. Or these are circulars, 26 circulars, and direction. Previously, some of you said no, because we don't bother that she's sick, but just since she was 16. 8th and 6th. 9. has been sick and absent, and some meetings were held before the start of the school year by State secretaries, which, of course, they are empowered and also expertly competent to do so. If it wasn't ready, it wasn't true. Since the end of the school year, this booklet, the Minister, has said, has been part of the preparation of these models and recommendations. All those who are members of the Education Committee, we had a session of 23. 8th and then this booklet was ready. Of course, both this year and last year the situation – so I cannot agree that in the known epidemiological situation – after August 15th, when most of you returned from abroad or from vacations that have always deteriorated dramatically. So the situation was not known, and towards the beginning of the school year it was always worse. You were talking about changing directions, a lot of measures, circulars. You said one of them wasn't there, the other one said she was carrying a lot of circuits. You were even very contradictory to each other. But all the instructions relating to respect for the measures and those restrictions must also be aligned by the Ministry of Education with both the NIJ and the Ministry of Health, since the Minister cannot invent them on her own. Are you also going to say that the virus was invented by her? In one position, it was said that not all parents were trained as professors. Of course not, nor for doctors, nor for infectologists, but for scientists, researchers, but unfortunately some do. I must say, some of them aren't all like that. Therefore, the spread of this virus cannot possibly be stopped. Since this loud minority affects others, perhaps a little less — what would you say? – determined citizens and this minority are urged to disregard the measures. But to that, I must say, you've helped quite a lot yourself in the opposition. The last week before the first day of testing was the whole shock, the fear, the trembling of everyone, the panic was happening, but as we saw, the testing was very nice glass. We, those who have children in primary school, have received a very nice, positive message from the principal, so obviously everything has run very well. Children know more than we know adults. But why did this happen in schools, you said why not at home. Some of us who have children in the senior triad of elementary school know that for a long time, if you remember, they had tests at home and were able to test themselves. But my child said to me at home: “Mom, I’m the only one who needs to be tested. Nobody else is testing, only you are forcing me to test myself." Well, then he said, another classmate, he told me. But that means how much they followed these instructions when they had tests at home. That's why it had to be transferred to school. And that's right. You saw it yourself, probably read the articles, 300 new infections were detected in schools on Wednesday. With this incursion, a lot of things can stop. Last year, when schools were away and we didn't have the opportunity, there was no self-testing, and the vaccine wasn't enough. But I'm not the type to vaccinate children anyway, but I'm willing to vaccinate everyone else and thus protect children and those who can't do any other health care. Personal discredits were really too much today. I would have wanted or would have wanted the interpretation to be based on some really professional findings, not on political manipulation and personal discrediting of a man, a woman. Some of you say, not okay, the hybrid system isn't okay, the long-distance education wasn't okay. You know, you probably realize there's always some kind of infection that's quarantined. So everyone, 100%, can't be in school. So now I don't know, nothing's okay, but you don't tell me how to save you. Probably maskless schools, like you said at the time, or what? Or without testing? I don't know how. You said today that you all agree with self-testing, I hope so. Among other things, you said that everyone, everyone, is complaining, you said. But that's not true. You said all the unions are against the minister, and that's not true either. In the building, I hope that you all have it, there is also a letter of support from the Minister, Dr Simoni Kustec, and it is written by the Syndicate of Directors and Directors, i.e. Sindir. I will only read the first paragraph to you: "In the Syndicate of Directors and Directors, Sindir, we are surprised and disappointed that the Minister of our Department of the Department of Staff, Dr. Simon Kustec, is again subject to the procedure of interpretation. With the decades of monitoring the development and functioning of the Ministry of Education and Sport, we are convinced in the union that there is no acceptable professional explanation for the procedure being initiated. As we devote ourselves to the profession in our union, and our work is based on dialogue and the strength of the arguments, we express clear disagreement with the indications covered by the proposal for interpretation, and we express our support to Minister Simoni Kustec." As I said, interpellation is without real substantive arguments, there is no content, but the arguments are actually very weak. Regrettably, today is just as it has been said — that politics is being broken on the shoulders of our children today or, in fact, the whole mandate is being broken. Some even mentioned in each sentence that the minister caused confusion and hardship. But I'm sure the virus causes confusion and distress to all of us, not that it's caused by the minister. I think he's doing a pretty good job of trying to ease this grip. But unfortunately, we need to realize that the pressures among children often arise more because of parents than teachers and others. My son also told me that his classmate complained that he was going to be tested, only his mother wouldn't let him go, and I'd rather go to school with them, but he wouldn't let him. So kids are a lot smarter than parents. It's never easy to find a solution that everyone would be happy with. We're probably aware of that. In particular, this is impossible during this epidemic, or still unfortunately unknown virus. I mentioned earlier that you say that everyone is complaining, and I have read the union's support, and most officials also agree that the instructions or circuits they received were timely and that they were able to help each other greatly without any content and that they did not understand them. On the other hand, it is. In fact, they're CEOs, they're independent, they're managers. I don't know, I haven't heard that anyone, any health director, would go anywhere, that maybe his ministry didn't give him enough instructions. However, it is necessary to be responsible for your work and to accept your responsibility. At the school where I have children, the other is in college, they stopped everything there, and apparently they made their own decision — everything went very well. And also messages like I said, we got very positive messages from the director. I'm not going to repeat myself about the investment funds. There's been a lot of talk today. After 10 years, there is really a huge amount of funding provided, including for kindergartens and schools in our environment or almost all over Slovenia. I would say, though, that despite this epidemic, in which the minister kept her mandate, she was not just doing current work or, as was said, running things, but she had arranged quite a few Westerns. The laws it has adopted have already been listed, and I will tell you that in December 2020, an important rule on adult education was adopted, which should have been adopted by the previous Minister, and I do not know why it is not. Human Universities were very happy, and they also wrote with great appreciation: “Friday, 4. 12. 2020, we will remember human universities forever in our more than 60-year history. In the Official Journal, “the Rules on Standards and Norms for the Financing and Implementation of the Public Service in the field of Adult Education have been published, which, in the field of adult education after many years of work and efforts of all involved, provides us with a legal basis for carrying out the public service activity which will be,” or is now, “extended by 1. 1. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. And they thank the minister and all the others who helped. Next. The minister was able to listen and approve those high school programs that we've been fighting for for several years. In Ormož, in particular, we fought for 12 years for health care and were not approved by former ministers. However, for this reason, and for the last time, Mrs Azman admitted to me on the last Committee on Health that the entries in Murski Sobota and Maribor had not been significantly reduced. I hope it's not just now that we've figured out in this epidemic how bloody we need medical personnel. But no, obviously back then, I don't know, we didn't have enough political support in Ormozh. At the election of 2018, all three then Members went to the former Minister of Pikal and asked him to finally admit to us all the arguments we have after 10 years. Because our biggest employers in Ormož are a hospital, a health care home, a retirement home, and Ptuj Hospital has given support. No, no one's heard us in 12 years. And that's why I'm going to be grateful to the Minister all my life, and that's why everyone's grateful. 30 kids are enrolled this year, first year in this department. Many other good things have been done for small places and other people. Maybe I'll mention sports. Yeah, we were all afraid of what would happen when last year was closed for a while, the kids couldn't train, they only trained top athletes. At that time, of course, we, as well as other Members of Parliament, were asked by coaches and club presidents to relax, but there were still no tests to make it easier to relax, of course. Recently, my colleague admitted to me that at the time they were afraid that very few children would come to training after the epidemic. And the last time he said to me, "You know, I was wrong. Now there's more. More children go to training than they did before, new ones have joined!« And he was happy to tell me that by himself. So it's true that we're going to get something good out of this epidemic, not just bad things. I would like everyone to see those good things, and that this epidemic actually connects us and we can draw as much out of it as we can, not just look for bad things and separate ourselves more than we need to. Minister, you have my full support, I'm sure I won't support the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I wanted to respond to the words of my colleague Mojca from SMC. In a way, you're trying to frame us as if we were working together or even pushing those who are opposed to action against covido-19, and so on. That's absolutely not true. I would've turned the story around. We are constantly calling on the Minister to conduct some normal dialogue to prevent such rebellion. The Honourable Minister and all the others who are orchestrating the Minister today, the fact is that both the main unions and the housing associations and the principals and teachers are warning you that you are not here. Dear Minister, you're not here. And not those 10 days or two weeks when you were on sick leave. You've tried to turn this around before, how we despise these things and all that. No, the other way around. I pointed out earlier that I'm not talking about the period when you were on sick leave, but I'm talking about a period before that and a period of time What do you say there and you're disrupting the process? [[…]] And a period a few days ago, when a new decision was taken regarding testing in primary schools. And that's not what we in the democratic opposition say, that's what the unions say, that's what teachers say, that's what the general public says. Now I don't really know what we're talking about. You are trying to convince us that the Minister was present during the talks, in the implementation arrangements, and the fact is that she was not present. This is as if they said before the minister went out of the hall, that she was in the hall, because, in the first place, she did say that even if she wasn't seen, it doesn't mean she wasn't. If we fall to this level of debate, then it is also possible that it is, when it is not, far away. Once again, regarding your travels and the importance of international obligations. I agree that international obligations are also important, but when it comes to talking here in Slovenia about whether, despite the medically difficult situation, teaching can take place normally or not, I think, a respected minister would be right to give priority to these meetings. And once again, that's not what I'm saying, don't speak to this fellow Matthew of the Left, that's what the key stakeholders in education say. Look, 17,000 student signatures have been signed under the fact that you have to resign. 17,000 signatures were collected. You have been invited by the SVIZ union to join the process, principals, directors. And now you're saying you've been there all along. You know, in these difficult times, when difficult decisions are made, there may be a kind enough word, it is enough to sit down with your schoolmates and calm them down and advise them on what to do if their parents object, and so on. And you didn't give that information. You didn't give them away. That's what different principals say. Thank God he got a normal high on Wednesday. I'm glad there were few who fought back. But your last circuit was sent to school principals and principals five minutes earlier. I'm asking you very nicely that my colleagues in the coalition do not deceive and say that we oppose testing students in schools. That's not true. Preoccupation in Slovenia would also be much higher, I hope to say this if there was some normal dialogue between the government and citizens. The exact same problem is the issue of measures within the school system. This government does not feel part of the people, but feels like it is something lofty, despises citizens and citizens, and the result is rebellion. Otherwise, a senseless mutiny for my ideas, because I think we all know that the only solution is better graft. The only one. And we all know the same thing, and we want to, I believe that we all want schools not to close down, that, as we pointed out last year, schools close last year and open the first. And this government has been working — what? She immediately closed the schools, I speak for the previous waves of the epidemic, but at the same time, before the new year, she opened hair salons, opened massage parlors, many shops and so on, because it is necessary to buy gifts. This shows that education is not the priority of this government. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I know it's hard to listen to this, but unfortunately these are facts. And when you were talking about a union of directors, you were also deceiving. I don't know whether it's intentional or not, because there were a lot of controversy and disagreements around this story of the letter of support for this union. Indeed, the president of the union, who I hear is also a member of the Janševa SDS, sent this letter out through the authorities and even complained that the case was not coordinated with the union authorities. But it doesn't matter. In spite of this union, I repeat, all housing associations of directors, teachers and the main school union of SWIZ have opposed your way of working and have begged you, as we are now asking you to join, actively engage in the search for solutions to the epidemic in school premises. One more thing, Minister, I have to point out again, because you're obviously not answering my questions. What happened to the Government yesterday with the conclusion that it opened an invitation to tender for concessions in private colleges? From the right half of Parliament, we have heard a lot about how it is necessary to allow citizens and citizens across Slovenia to attend universities free of charge and so on and how it is only normal and fair for such an invitation to tender to take place. But I ask, what about the 2016 Court of Auditors opinion, which clearly stated that under the current legislation we do not meet the conditions for new concessions. What about your political commitment, SMC, to work primarily to strengthen public education? You just didn't answer those questions. Given that we have also discussed the problem of higher education in interpretation, I would expect you to respond to this issue, even though it is more current and is not directly written in the document. The thing is, it's been going on since last night. Serious reports appear in public that this adoption took place in the government because you bought support from the SDS party today at the interpretation. People who are familiar with the situation are saying that the invitation to tender is adapted to the Faculty of Rončević, Ludvik Toplak and so on. You are describing a new programme for journalism and the media, implemented in this private sphere exclusively by Rončević, with sufficient cities on the FDV. Some criteria must have been on the basis of which you decided that these programmes were important. And even if it's only a million and a half bucks, it's got nothing to do with it. You know, this systematically degrades and starts public higher education, which is also politically neutral, and on the other hand you're setting up a parallel new system. These are very serious questions. As has been said several times today, you welcome the fact that finally the ZOFVI has changed in an article on the financing of private primary schools and how the Minister has taken a big step here. While I do not agree with this solution, because there are again some unnecessary sweets for private people, it is indeed very little money, and especially here the Minister has done nothing because it was the SDS party's parliamentary law. But you've got a political majority for such a solution. We wouldn't get her with us, certainly not because we're advocates of public education. And also the last ruling of the Constitutional Court said otherwise than you've been saying all along. So yes, absolutely this support in the KUL coalition would not get. You tried a similar law, but it didn't go through because it's absolutely a priority to invest in the public education system. At the same time, I would like to congratulate you on what you have been stressing all along — that you have finally provided funds for investments. After the government in which Minister Jernej Pikalo provided these funds, you withdrew and subsequently returned them after the opposition's calls. Thank God. On these, Mojc's colleague, specific matters, what Pikalo has not done to you, and Mrs Kustec has done, but once again there is a difference in the way it works, you know. Our party or our coalition does not work in the way that the Minister seemed to be with the Member and then in his local environment do what the Minister promises, even if they are of the same party or otherwise connect. That's wrong. It is necessary to look at the whole and work on the basis of the whole solution, without doing a favor, I don't know, but an investment is made there or a new program is signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Reploco has Secretary Simon Kustec. You won't? [[No, no, ……]] Then the second candidate, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you, Comrade Vice President. I'd still like to get back to this union. This is the only letter of support you can find in the year and a half, what housing organizations from the school, this union Sindir, the Union of Directors and Directors currently chaired by Mr Anton Obreht, a former mayoral candidate supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's the first point. This letter of support came as a voice of directors, and later it turned out that no one in the union knew about this letter. Mr President signed himself, this was not accepted by any union body, but he decided to send it on his own. As a result of this, some of the union’s withdrawals were. When sending this to another union member, this president wrote a letter to this other member and wrote: “We support Minister Simono Kustec, agree with the direction of the ministry's activities in its mandate and assess that there are no professional reasons for its discharge. But there is a full time behind us and challenges ahead of us, and the search for solutions does not begin by pointing the finger at an individual." A little later, a proposal came to the debate to raise salaries for directors. In short, this gentleman, the president of this union, a sympathizer or a member of the SDS party, supported the Minister only because he promised that the salaries would increase to the directors. I have no problem in raising salaries for directors, as also confirmed by the Secretary-General of SWIZ, but it is problematic to send letters of support in return for the opening of a debate on salary increases. This is another of the many evidences that this government has somehow been corrupt in its genes, which we will obviously discuss at the next meeting of the National Assembly, the response of the President of the Government to this question, and how things are very wrong in this ministry. Not only is there no hearing for the school field, not only is there complete ignorance there, but there is some party corruption at the daily level. What was now asked by Comrade Koprivc is very pertinent. How is it possible to publish a call from satellites that is tailored to some private educational institutions close to the largest government party? So give some – sometimes I understand that your client colleague, your minister, is to defend her, but choose some other methods. Because you're going to defend some things that point to some elements of corruption, it's easy without connection. These aren't personal discredits, they're job discredits. A work that is not visible to us that is not seen by the principals, which is not seen by teachers who are not seen by everyone who is involved in the school process. I still can't understand how a handful of you doesn't understand that a large proportion of the stakeholders in different systems in this country – but I'm not just talking about education, I'm also talking about culture, I don't know about media, I'm talking about health care – who just doesn't understand and disagrees with the actions of each individual district minister and government as a collective body. And once again, you paint this idyllic image of how everything is full of beauty and flowers bloom, and on the other hand the house burns. That's amazing. And one more thing. I'd really like to ask you, all the time you're saying that it's some political attacks, that it's political talk, that it's political accounting, and that it's Zeus, Christ, Marx, where are we? Are we not in Parliament, in the National Assembly, where you are elected politicians? This idea of depoliticizing politics is abject. We are here, of course, in different political positions, and I think we need to discuss it politically. If you want expert discussions, you'll go to some kind of professional forum. We are trying to equip ourselves with as much data as possible, with as much support from experts as possible, but look, when we are in this Chamber, we are discussing politically, and I think that is the case. Do not discredit any intervention that is political because it cannot be otherwise in this Chamber. As far as one thing is concerned, I would like to stress that. You said the epidemiological situation was unknown and it was impossible to prepare. At the beginning of the summer, the Minister of Health ensured that the fall would be difficult, that people would die, that hospitals would be filled and so on. So no, the situation was not unknown. Of course, we could not know exactly how many beds would be needed, how many would be sick, and so on, but we knew it would be bad. Delta had already spread across Great Britain and elsewhere, and it was about to know what kind of bullies they were going to be, so not to say that the epidemiological situation was unknown. That's it for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The replica has a Mojca Znidaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u162	I'll be very short. Well, you've now, in the end, admitted that there is no professional argument that this is, of course, political. Interpellation is a political manoeuvre. Why did I read this letter? Because you've all warned that everyone is not happy with her work. This letter of support was sent to the public concerned and not now as a defence, it was already sent on 29 September. How do you know what unions say to each other in e-mails? That's really weird, I don't know how you guys are familiar with all this, and you're saying that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u163	Applicant, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u164	Work, 19. Ten. 2021, published by the newspaper, the journalist went to check with individual members of the union and also with Mr President of this union. The title of the article is the Union of Directors for the Minister, and they are promised higher salaries. Look in Del with this date and read it. I didn't make it up. As far as expertise is concerned, it's an interesting experiment. Once again, we draw attention to the interpretations when they are written and when they are dealt with in the National Assembly, we also prepare ourselves with the views of experts and the public concerned in this area, which does not mean that they are all puffs. But I said that there is no room for professional discussion in the National Assembly, because we are all experts here on the same thing, but I think we all have the right to talk about all things, because this is our job.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Replica, Lydia Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Replica to Matthew Tashner. It's not really a replica, anyway. When we talk about the politicalization of the National Assembly, of course, we are Members of the political group, but what else are we? Maybe just by the way, even the minister is a politician, she's not some difficult expert, because she's in a political position and she's doing a political profession to say so. So yes, of course, our debates here are different from political ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members! Strong and accessible public education is the priority of every society. In this covida epidemic, we have shown how important the state subsystem is to education, and we have seen all of us see the problems of shutting down schools or carrying out different forms of teaching in the company to carry out other professions. We have seen that learning or changing lessons have an impact on economic activity, on the professions and existence of many parents. Therefore, it is also normal for schools to close and open at the latest. We have seen in these epidemiological times that there were open drug dealers selling expensive cosmetics, while parents were unable to buy basic items such as textiles, shoes and the like. This doesn't just fly to the Ministry of Education, it flies the way this government does. When we talked about strong and healthy public education, we cannot go past the last call for concessions or for private schools. Here I would like to make it very clear that it is the task of the State to provide public education and to look at these programmes as part of public education, to rewind them if necessary, and, of course, to strengthen them. Here I would like to point out that, without any concern, the state allows the opening of new study programmes in state colleges without providing additional accommodation in student homes. Instead of regulating these matters, it co-finances the opening of new private study programmes. This is, of course, particularly worrying and confused with sound logic. Of course, these matters will have to be answered. As far as school closures are concerned, colleagues from the Left have brought one new statistics from Unecs, the United Nations, which, of course, confirms our claims by the signatories. And when someone says that we have the best learning success at graduation, it is very difficult for me to imagine how this, if the conditions of education have deteriorated also for objective reasons, how can the Ministry's professional services come to such a conclusion that, given that schoolchildren have been educated under more difficult conditions, they have better results. But you know, it just doesn't make sense. And when we look at research abroad, for example, in England, it was clearly confirmed that students were suffering from learning deficits, especially those resulting from vulnerable groups. This is a fact and this is essentially a replica of my colleague Montenegro, who explained that learning success is better given that we have difficult conditions. These issues will need to be addressed, the learning deficit will need to be identified and a plan is made on how these learning deficits will be addressed. In this epidemic, a number of children’s distresses have emerged. This, too, should be somehow analyzed. I was repeatedly approached by the parents of former nine - year - olds, who somehow became reluctant to study or to continue in school. Such problems are not small enough for parents to lose out on their education and become apathetic in the last year of elementary school. I know quite a few of these cases, and these are the hardships that we should address. In the SAB Group, we have also made amendments to the budgets for 2022 and 2023 to provide additional psychological assistance to children. Unfortunately, these amendments have not been adopted and despite the fact that they have been very intensively alerted and warned by psychologists and psychiatrists, people who are professionally engaged in these pressures. If we look at another problem, the SLOfit study has shown that among the students, movement skills have declined due to closure or, in this sense, because during this time of the epidemic, there has not been any kind of incentive for independent movement in nature. These are all the problems that will need to be addressed, which should be addressed and, of course, with one calm, sound communication from the whole government effectively addressed. One more time, if we're going to get these things together. The epidemic's been going on for quite some time. At first, we didn't know all of the methods how it spreads, so it's supposed to expand in a drop. It has been known that it is spreading capriciously, there were no other effective methods of preventing the spread of infections than the exercise of quarantine, but when the rules change from day to day, from today to tomorrow, from 23 p.m., to 1 p.m., of course, it causes indigestion and conflict in people. In Germany, at this time, schools can be opened as long as possible to the government and cities, because they have different legal arrangements, they have started to serve other measures and, of course, they have also installed air disinfectors in schools and classes. According to their experience, of course, this helps to infect infections. We need to be aware that probably small children, especially those in the lower classes of the eight-year-old, are not accustomed to or able to wear masks, even adults get face-to-face, children are doing a lot of other things out of these masks, including flakes. And, of course, it would be right for these matters to be addressed in some appropriate way and, in the light of these facts, to be taken by others. This, of course, has also been pointed out by the principals in primary and secondary schools that nothing has been regulated except these other measures. I've been talking to different principals at this time. Some were so self-initiative and alone, so with school money collected in various ways, either by broadcasting gyms or by various bazaars and other things, they bought devices that disinfect and disinfect the air. In this way, for example, they disinfected the common spaces. But here, of course, I expected a more systematic approach, which I did not see at this time and in these moments. In particular, I would like the school year under way to continue. It is difficult in the children’s development cycle or in the development phase in which they are located to correct these deficits that they have received, so that learning takes place as smoothly as possible and that, as a society, some of the past we have witnessed, we have also learned that these mistakes that we have listed and have happened will no longer happen. This is the most important thing for us. The Minister, as the first official in this area, is, of course, responsible for everything that is going on in this system for objective reasons. Therefore, it is also necessary for directors representing the operators of this system to ask the Ministry with specific questions to receive specific answers. And the principals and teachers have made it clear that they have not received these concrete answers and have also made a clear statement that they do not trust such a system. And as a client, of course, we have to trust the profession. If the operators, the first ones responsible for this, namely those who are called on daily to strengthen public education, say that they do not have adequate answers to questions from the Ministry, then it is clear that we cannot trust such a leader, such a minister, in politics as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Jura Ferjan has the word to prepare Aljaž Kovačič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u170	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, honourable Members and all those who accompany us in a relatively quick discussion! Today we have an interpellation, second against the current minister. I am confident that in just a few hours' time the vote will be similar to that of the first vote and that tomorrow Mrs Simona Kustec will continue to be Minister of Education, such as a minister who could be an example to at least some of the last ministers and ministers. I am not saying this on the basis of some personal preferences, but on the basis of the results that this government and this ministry have made. Today we have heard something like this in the beginning, it is not quite a literal quote, but it was in this sense: This ministry has the worst leadership, the ministry up there holding a middle office, which has been there for a long time. Something in this respect has been said by the proposers. If we look at the background of who led this ministry for the most part, we see that it was an SD party, so it's obviously them, all of this office that you've charred, they're fine, and everything else sucks. But how? It is also a bit sensitive because the proposer, who somehow spoke those words, soon said that the minister was too much of a shift to this middle office. Now you decide whether this middle office is doing well or not, is it the middle office there, that the support to the minister and the management of the cabinet - or what? To bring you information and give you things so you can counter and attack the government? Why is this middle office out there? I think it's to work on the department, to develop this area. And if we look so quickly, of the last seven ministers, you had two ministers or three times this department in the SD party, which you are also proposing this interpretation. Once Dr. Lukšič and twice Dr. Pikalo. Did you do something? How many investments have there been in kindergartens, primary schools, sports facilities in the last ten years? How much? Nothing. Nothing. This government, and this ministry, is committed to investing in kindergartens, primary schools and sports facilities over EUR 118 million, respected and respected. To be concrete: €45.2 million for investments in kindergartens, namely 55 kindergartens in 55 different municipalities across Slovenia; €67.2 million for primary education for 69 primary schools in 68 different municipalities; €1.7 million for investment in education of nationality; these are two buildings in two municipalities; and €4.1 million for investment in sports facilities, 50 buildings in 50 different municipalities across Slovenia. And what does that mean? This means that this government, that this ministry, that this minister you're interpreting today, is investing money in education, in kindergartens, in schools, in sports facilities all over the country. What does that mean? This means that this government improves the initial possibilities for everyone, regardless of where we are born and live in Slovenia and where we go to school. And this is the main message, including decentralisation of Slovenia and equal starting points of opportunity, that our success, our life actually depends on our abilities, abilities, our knowledge, our desires, our efforts and not on whether we are born in Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor, Lower Duplex, Gornji Radgoni. Today, it has also been said that this ministry has fallen asleep or that I do not know what has happened. Look, a one-time solidarity allowance for students in a group of almost 17 million euros. You've talked a lot today, yes, a lot of kids unfortunately, even today in the age of computer science don't have access to the Internet, computers or both. But this ministry and this government have earmarked over €10 million for the purchase of IT equipment. Over 11 million euro has been allocated for protective equipment. So, the measures have been, it has helped, but it is true that many of the hardships that have been before have deepened. I'm sorry. But these pressures would have been much more if there had not been nine antikrons of packages that had alleviated these hardships and also prevented many. This government and this ministry have also been successful and productive in the legislative field. One of the things that is probably the most painful for you by today's interviewers is the realisation of a constitutional decision regarding the financing of private education, primary education. You talked about it a lot, talked a lot, but you didn't do anything. Then there is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens and the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation, including the Law on the Treatment of Children and Adolescents with Emotional and Behavioral Problems and Disorders in Education and Education. It's been done a lot, a lot. And I'm sure by the end of the term, there's still a few months left, and a lot more will be done. She's already said something about it, and she'll probably be next. Before I somehow conclude my debate, allow me some intermeszzas. There'll be five. The first one may be a little wider, but it's kind of a response to what we've heard in the last few hours. It is obvious that you have more information on the Presidency of the Council of the European Union than members of the government in the Party of the Left, at least so it was possible to understand from some words. This is probably a similar logic to what we could have heard yesterday or before yesterday in a new society of lecturers in a party of Social Democrats, where they obviously have more powers and more roles, such as a member of the delegation of the European Parliament in Slovenia, European MEP Mrs Romana Tomc. Probably this similar logic that spreads from Left to SD and so forth. Second intermezzo. Today, I am always embarrassed to say this because it is not right, but I will say this, today Mrs Violeta Tomić said in her 15-, 20-minute discussion every few minutes: "Where is the Minister, where is the Minister, to whom do I speak?" Now I ask you: “Where is Mr Vatovec, the proposer? Where is Mrs. Violeta Tomic now? Hello, nice to meet you." [[There's a riot in the hall.]] But, you know, respected and respected when a colleague of Violet Tomić said that, Mr. Koprivec was not in the hall. And it's okay, look, Mr Koprivc probably went to eat something, maybe he had a physiological need, maybe he was monitoring the office, because he probably didn't want to be in this room all day. And there's nothing wrong with that, I'm just saying what level of proposal you're going to. Because if we had an argument, we wouldn't have dropped to such a level, because we wouldn't have to, because we would have had arguments, and there's no arguments like that. There's no such thing as an argument. However, I apologize to Mr Vatovac, because he was not sitting in his bench, but I did not notice that he was talking to an expert associate of the Social Democrats. So there's an apology in this place. However, he too was absent for a time when such an expression was emphasized. I'm just saying, it's not right. Members and Members of Parliament are not in the Chamber all day, but we can monitor the meeting on television, on the phone, in our office and so on. I want to warn you that you're missing an argument. That's obvious, too. It's the third intermezzo, you're talking about testing. See, while in KUL you are applauding the principal who needs obviously 100 pages of guidance on how to perform testing, while you are probably wondering how a child who goes to the 1st grade of elementary school can understand and win it in a few minutes or within an hour, while apparently according to this director, who also, I think, even on national, public RTV Slovenia, would need 14 days. While you applaud her, I wonder if this principal has the ability to run a school if she needs 14 days to test herself to teach him to find out, or if she has any other problems that she does not want to do for any other reason. But the fourth intermezzo will be about dialogue. Look, you're comparing us to fascists, Nazis, criminals, and I don't know what else. And you're going to talk about tolerance and dialogue? Start with yourself. Surely each of us can take an additional step, each of us. But such quantifiers, which we listen to from the Left, also from some members of the Social Democrats, are not in place. And the fifth intermezzo. You've talked a lot about what's gonna happen now that the kids are being tested at school. It wasn't that bad, was it? Some of the parents had comments, but they had concerns, normal things, nothing bad. But you know, the children's attitude is, I'm sure it's the same as their parents'. You know, if you criticize a child every day, you'll tell him how poor he is, how everything is wrong, how bad everything is, yes, he'll probably have a similar attitude. On the contrary, if you encourage him, advise him, talk to him, and help him, this relationship will likely be much more positive. But I'm not going to continue here because, of course, everyone has their own education, and that's the way it is. Dearly respected and respected, before I move to the final part, I have previously spoken specifically about investments and here you can also see in particular on this graph or graphics how the resources for science and sport education are moving from 2010 to this year, with a projection for 2022. A very visual, very beautiful indicator of how resources are growing and what funds were when, for example, the Social Democrats led the department. Ladies and gentlemen, let me show you this photograph in the final part. Now some people are probably going to jump into the air. But I didn't publish it. This has been published by the Social Democrats themselves. You know, let's ask ourselves who acted responsibly in this country, who encouraged vaccination, to take into account the measures, who destroyed the government in this country, disrupted the measures, called for protests, attended protests, undeclared protests, protests that led to the spread of the virus of intolerance, hostility, and the destruction of public property. However, not all Members and Members of the KUL are mistaken, but unfortunately the majority. But most of them. Respected and respected, this is an alternative to the current government and an alternative to the current minister. While on the other side we have 126 investments in kindergartens and schools, we have a new free kindergarten for another child, we have higher money awards for Olympic medals. I have already said that the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation has been adopted. We also have approved 50 investments in sports facilities. Respected and respected! Your decision is, yours, today, how you vote, and the decision of the electorate and electorate is next year, when the regular state-level elections will be how they will vote. Will they vote in favour of investing in developing Slovenia, whether they will vote in favour of collapsing, collapsing and doing what you have been doing in KUL for the last year and a half? Thank you very much, and I believe the Minister will continue her work tomorrow. But you will probably continue your demolition at KUL tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The replica has Lydia the Wilderness Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you stop prying here, but you're simply talking about the content of the interpretation that you haven't spoken of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u173	The drafter of mags has the floor. Macor Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I have to respond to some nonsense from my predecessor's speech, which, by the way, did not talk about the interpretation, but about everything else, especially the government's EPP, Janez Janša, what they are doing and up and up. He reminded me a little bit about a fellow Rebrška who is not here today, but he always says the same thing, he says, "How to do it, build it, we build it, we don't know what." In short, look at the facts, when you said that this government was the first and only one to invest in investment education, this, Comrade Ferrian, is not true. In fact, until the famous Zujf, by the time Janez Janša had literally taken over the country and stopped all investments in all areas, even under our government, even under a government governed by social democracy, there were quite a few investments in education and science. So, under the minister, Dr. Luksic, whom you've been exposing. But it is true that then, under the ministry of your SDS Turk and then SMC's Makovec Brenčič and the first term of Pikal, there was no investment because Janšev Zujf had no means to do so and it was not possible to do so. In the last term of Dr. Picala, which was suspended prematurely, the funds for this area have been restored, but unfortunately your government, the Janša government, with the help of the new SMC, as they would call it, has abolished these funds with a new budget, as I said before, and only then, after the intervention, have you re-positioned primary education and kindergarten investment funds. And thank God you did. On the other hand, you have pointed out that as much as this government gives for education, generally no government has ever given up. That thesis doesn't work either. Under the previous government, there was a greater share of education resources in relative numbers than under your government. But it's true that all the numbers are bigger because you're in an insane debt. But you know, you're in debt, you're spending money on unnecessary things, you're referring to an epidemic, you're actually spending money on everything else, for what I said earlier, for gifts to friends of Janez Janša, but you owe our children and next generation, and you're calling after you have to take some buzz again. With regard to the non-truths and lies that you have raised with regard to the European Commission's report on monitoring the state of human rights and democracy in European countries, it is already sad enough that Slovenia is dealt with from this point of view. But let me tell you that the President of the Commission, Sophie and 't Veld, denied your European Ambassador Romane Tomc's claims. It denied the claim that this report was specifically sent to Tanja Fajon. That's not true. At the same time, it was sent to Tanja Fajon and Romane Tomc and all other European Members because it is a rule or habit to send this report before publication. Not that substantive matters are being corrected, but that each record is in some way confirmed and the same applies to this certificate. That was publicly denied by the president of the commission. So your talking is stupid, it's a lie, it's on the level of this, because I'm here, and you can't see me, but I'm still here. If that's how we're gonna talk, then we can talk. But the chairman of the commission denied getting Tanja Fajon's office outside of the rest of the report. But she got it just like your MPs and everyone else. Just so long as we don't fool around for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The replica of Jure Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Firstly, if Zuif was so bad, I don't know why the government in which you were Social Democrats then passed certain measures from Zuif as permanent. That's what you have to deal with. The second thing, see, is not true, there were investments, investments in kindergartens and so on during the time of Minister Žig Turk. At the time of your government, for example, you rejected the amendment of colleague Anja Bah Žibert for 50,000 euros in aid, which was an important aid to the branch primary school at the time. So we're back on one side of the word, on the other side of the action. On this report, however, I have already congratulated your president on the real ingenuity or originality of the excuse. So whatever you add here, I don't think you drink water with citizens and citizens, but if you believe in yourself, that's better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u178	Mr Ferrjan, the forces of continuity and the deep state obviously have hunters spread not only across Slovenia, but across Europe and around the world, so that we take care of them. Regarding investments, Mr Ferrjan, I would like to tell you once again clearly and loudly. I was talking about no more calls. The last call was under Igor Luksic, and certain investments were made at the time of the Turk's brand. But there was no more invitation to tender. For the first time, the funds re-emerged in the budget during the time of the mandate of Minister Jernej Pikal, and this call was terminated by the new Janševa government and subsequently called for a new one after a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The replica of Jure Ferrjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think this is probably not going anywhere anymore, but, Mr Koprivc, you will already know how these forces of continuity function as proud heirs to the Union of Communists of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovacič has the word, to prepare Gregor Židan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! It is funny to listen to some arguments when they talk about how an interpretation should take place, because I think that everyone should know that interpellation is the minister's defence, which part of the parties seem somewhat obvious to him. Now you're saying that those of us who report to the minister should write down all the new laws. Yeah, we write them and we invest them, but the coalition rejects them. Interpellation, however, is about work, about the responsibility of the individual ministry, the minister, it also shows how poor the Minister's arguments are to be defended by coalition members in this way. Of course, we support all investments in the List of Marjan Šarc. We must say that the budget is very inflatable, that you owe an additional 15 billion to all Slovenians and Slovenians and that you do not have a fiscal rule. Just as my colleague Koprivc has already mentioned - a new soup can quickly happen as it has already happened under your government, and then we will see how many of these investments there will be. These kindergartens and schools aren't there yet, they're not there yet, and the homes that you like to brag about them so much aren't there yet. It's all something on paper, we'll see when you can do it. You also bragged about two laws. I supported one myself, it's a scientific research activity that's a long way from being a great marriage. It's more than keeping things the way it is. But you still haven't helped young researchers, which they've actually been alerting them all along. Since the Minister has been so busy today or wanted to present herself as a woman, I have already asked her which of those women she cut off at the Ministry, if I may say so, Mrs Javornik, Mrs Samardžija, Mrs Šushmelj, who are experts. It was possible to stand up for a man who, as soon as he had not prepared this bill, with whom he boasted today, former Secretary of State Jura Gasparič, because he had argued with the President of the Government, flew quite quickly and quietly away. Also boast of a constitutional decision. Yes, of course you've accepted it, because you've always wanted privates to get more. It is said that in interpolation to find arguments for reading through the eyes of feminism is more than sad and shows the lack of some serious arguments and answers that should be given. I have a few questions for the Minister, and I hope that she will answer, or at least the Secretary of State will pass them on to her, which I will ask her. First of all with regard to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan: Have you aligned the plan with the SVRK and how will you reach the milestones? The first trance is already in Slovenia, but nothing is yet implemented and I am interested in: What is your plan to reach the milestones in your area so that you can draw the funds? If I can get an answer to that. Secondly, I do not think that today any member of the opposition who submitted this interpretation was saying that no one would respect the measures or anything that is going on in schools. However, we have mentioned what your decisions have brought, saying some of the consequences that you have not communicated properly or prepared for them. And in my position, I asked a simple question, and I still didn't get an answer to it. Those children who are not physically allowed to attend school and have to learn from a distance how to go to school because they do not have as many cameras as there are departments in practice as there are not enough teachers to be able to teach twice. And teachers, in fact, because I've been talking to them, work in such a way as to send them e-mails and give them instructions, because it's not really possible to have two different lessons at the same time for eight hours. So, yes, it used to be far away and everyone was away, but now the teacher can't be in the classroom and teach 15 physically present and 5 over the Internet, because, for the first time, they don't have cameras and neither does technology allow it, and it's said that those five who don't come have lower quality lessons today. Of course, I advocate that all students be tested and that they will all be, but there is always a share that contradicts something, and of course schools do not have so many teachers. Similarly, because you have not provided enough personnel in kindergartens, because the wards are not in bubbles and because they mix them, the quarantines come in because there are not enough teachers in kindergartens to be able to have their own class, because some children are 8 or 9 hours in kindergartens and the tutor is working physically for six and a half hours and in fact they are mixed up and quarantined where it is not necessary. When we warned you to provide a new frame, you didn't. I also did not get an answer as to what the Ministry has done to protect school workers, there are real administrators, professors, teachers who are actually attacked by parents because of such and different opinions. We also didn't get an answer about young people, says students. One of the predecessors boasted that they had given twice 150 euros to each student. One hundred and fifty times. At the same time, they forgot to say that they had been thrown out of their dormitory homes because in fact some even had permanent residences, that they could not work through the student service and that they needed 500 euros to survive and received twice as much as 150 euros in two years. Now I don't know how we could survive. We also didn't get an answer because the ministry always says that schools will lock the last ones and open the first ones, and if the rector of the largest university says that 90 percent of the teachers are stricken, and more than 80 percent of the students are stricken, why are the universities closing down first again? I doubt that there is such a rift in any factory in Slovenia, as is evident at the University of Ljubljana. Or what? I hope so. In short, I understand that the state is going to lock down, but that only the education is closing, and I don't think that's going to bring anyone any good. We have also warned about the extension of concessions called Jambrek University, in fact you have been warned by NAKVIS and all the unions, followed by the Ministry, and of course the only logical Constitutional Court has refused to do so. I'm actually wondering if it's really your intention to invest in education or just to take care of private people. Because yesterday's decision by the Government to tender concessions for the implementation of the first and second degree higher education programmes shows that it is all about the good of public education, but it is again a privileged group of people who work in private colleges and in such a way and otherwise serve. As far as sports is concerned, it's a story to yourself anyway. I don't think there was a country that had the same attitude towards sport as the current government and the current minister. Some stories, too, that if the sports halls were closed, then the children would be more happy to return to the gyms, most likely, I don't know if you haven't seen your friends for two months, you'd be happy to come back, but the Sports College has made it clear that we're going to lose 20,000 young athletes. I didn't just make that up, that's what the lecturers at the only School of Sport we have and where they actually do it professionally. They also talked about obesity, about how students would go back, about how the training process was disabled in professional athletes. What does it mean if someone who's a professional athlete applying for a marathon doesn't train for five days? The result is that he may have to train for six months to return to the same level. That's how much a week of non-training causes him. This is where it all shut down. Not to mention, I think there was a physical competition when we were unique in the world, when for five contestants and three supervisors we were unable to provide space in Slovenia. When I mentioned putting them in the Cologne, then the Ministry's representatives laughed about it. Thus, we have effectively prevented these young people from competing internationally. The area of mental and physical health can also be most sensitive, which is also the most difficult to talk about. There are more than obvious consequences here. You could say that we've called over ten committees on children with special needs, told you what the consequences will be if they don't have physiotherapy, that parents aren't capable, they don't know that these children with special needs are working with them, because this is about special teachers who really know how to do it. But no, you missed it, or you didn't listen to us until the Constitutional Court brought these children back to school, and then you said that the Constitutional Court, if I'm not mistaken, followed your instructions or something like that was said that you thought they were. Your attitude towards these children with special needs is also reflected when we, along with the opposition, convened a meeting or passed a law so that in fact all children with special needs who need it would have a permanent companion. At the time, you said that this could not be resolved in this way and that you would be preparing a new marriage in September. I now ask you, Madam Minister, that we are already in the middle of November when this marriage will be, because if not, we will reinvest it in the opposition, but we still think it is the Ministry's task to prepare it with all the employees. And, as I mentioned earlier, about health. She said about this, I will quote again, the head of the Child Psychiatric Service in UKC Ljubljana, who said publicly: “With the Ministry of Education we remain on separate banks, as if we were not talking about the same children, about the same institution”. It is unacceptable for me that in fact the Ministry, which should defend children, especially those most vulnerable, does not cooperate with child psychiatry. And here the consequences will be catastrophic. I also received an e-mail from a university psychologist who wrote to me that she did not want Bergham in the field of mental health for young people. So we've completely ignored this area here. I think all the alarms should be on fire here if the head of the UKC Ljubljana Children's Psychiatrics Department announces that if they send psychologists, we have also had a meeting to discuss these institutions, where these children are alerted to the consequences. So I really hope it's for everyone's sake that these things are settled. As far as interpolation is concerned, of course we will support it in the LMŠ. The coalition MP boasted that you would remain a minister. At least as far as I'm concerned, you can personally be the minister for another ten mandates, but if this is good for the area you're covering, I think many parents who have children, students, students and everyone who actually works in this system can say, if today is as good as the coalition MPs say. In the List of Marjan Šarc and I myself think that the complete breakdown of the system in this area is also due to an epidemic that is actually incapable of mastering through this school system.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The word has Gregor the Jew, to prepare Lydia Ivanus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, we know what we're going to talk about. Sports, not anything else. I'll be more personal. We're probably going to achieve something to learn from this, but I think sport is part of the solution and not part of the problem, although it's created so that under your guidance it's part of the problem. I would not mention the good things of sport, since we generally know that it is of great importance in the development of children, people and ultimately the elderly. Therefore, we must not forget at any time that sport takes place in any case. I will remind you of your answer to the question of the Member State where we discussed training and protective equipment. The epidemic was announced on March 12th, on May 31st we cancelled it, then on July 1st was the flight of planes to the end of the epidemic, the second was the outbreak on October 18th, the next year on April 1st to April 11th we had a complete closure. I'm 17 of you. 5. 2021 asked how about the means of protecting sports equipment for sports organisations and athletes in sports exercises and competitions. We're talking 2021. The epidemic to look at began in 12 March 2020. I will read only the first paragraph: “The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has not yet prepared a methodology based on it. ” [[…]] It's not prepared, it's said that we're still not ready to help sports clubs, so they can practice at all. In another, how would you say, our conversation was also about these trainings as to how to proceed, and you suggested to me or you told me that the most ideal Zoom training was that it was the key to a solution. I say it's not the same, you say, it's the same. I don't know where we're gonna meet now. I don't think it's the same. There is no way that we can compare the trainings that take place in groups, especially in collective sports where we cannot individually, one day a week, maybe a week, and that is difficult. But then we meet for a little visit to the Japanese capital near the Tokyo Olympics. Here I agree with Mr Lisce that, of course, it is very useful for the Minister to come to such a thing, especially if they are good success. But look at the fragment, why isn't it going through Zoom? And it's not the same? It's not the same or the same. It's not the same. Just like the trainings aren't the same, there's not a visit the same over Zoom or you're right there. I'm saying, what would it look like if you were to congratulate them over Zoom and take pictures with them? That's impossible. But here normal athletes are extremely useful because it's nice to take pictures with them, especially if they're as successful as they were this year. We can congratulate them, but you simply have very little credit for it, so I don't think it would be necessary for you to take pictures with them. Maybe one way to say it is a newspaper or an internet thing. Black-eye forecasts: about 20,000 young people are lost for sport, not just for top sports. It's huge. I will now quote Mr Gregor Jurak from the Faculty of Sport and a member of the Sport Expert Group. I think he's been suspended by now, but I'll read it anyway. »A quarter of young people will no longer return to sports, and 10 percent of sports organisations in Slovenia will close their sports programmes. At the next Olympics we will still be successful«, we will be able to take pictures, this is my addition, “and later it will be a big hole”. That's what they say. These consequences are long-term. It's about this thing. Now another text message sent to me by Mr Lipovec: “Seven months of training for young athletes including cadet and youth representatives in individual non-contact sports has been banned.” We like to compare ourselves with others in the region, by comparison, this was not the case in Serbia, in Croatia for only 14 days. Then perhaps at least, as I would say, there's a supplement with which politicians will be photographed in a few years' time. I hope you are aware of your name, which is Minister of Education, Science, I will end here, absolutely to me you are not Minister of Sport, despite what you would say, the successes you attribute to yourself, but I will be able to comment on these achievements in a few years if they come true, that is to say this sports infrastructure that is absolutely necessary, and I hope it will come true, but I do not believe in the word. [[…]] Maybe, I'm telling you. I also miss you, someone who would be Secretary of State for Sports. I see you have gentlemen with you who are designated for some kind of lower and higher education, but for sport I do not see any. I think it might be in the final sequence time to set up a separate ministry for sport. I have great respect for the Ministry of Culture, which deserves this title, and since athletes are of great importance and good representatives in recent times, they also deserve their ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Lydia Ivanus has the word, to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u186	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting, everyone, today especially to Minister Kustec! The Minister is today defending the actions of others. That's a fact. First, I'd like to ask, who called for a school without masks, who invited them to the protest? Members and supporters of our opposition colleagues. Who rode without masks when we had an epidemic? Some of you are now sitting here in the hall between us. The minister pleads today because some parents refuse to follow the rules. Child testing is not a problem in Austria, it is not a problem in Germany, but we have some parents who believe that it is not good for their children. Let us remember the summer and the various events, or the upcoming holidays, Miklavž, Christmas and Christmas trips, which I am sure these parents will take their children to the test so that their children can participate in certain games and plays in this holiday spirit, of course if they take place according to the situation we currently have in the country. Who among all those who have problems with self - examination would deprive their child of Christmas happiness or moaning? Personally, I don't think anyone does. But they're making it difficult for them and they're taking the child's chances of education and socializing with their peers, and my kid's not gonna get tested and peaked. But they forgot about responsibility and solidarity, they forgot that it might be their child who would need help in the hospital, but there would be no bed or trained staff. God forbid, because these are no longer predictions. The first such case has already happened and has not happened because of the Minister, but because people do not follow the rules because they do not want to follow them and because some of the opposition colleagues support and inspire this greatly. These are truly irresponsible and selfish conduct. In the media, the quote “KUL has failed to overthrow governments but has collapsed the health system”. And that's how it is. At the same time, you've been trying to disrupt the school system and everything else that this government has been building. Apparently, the ministry wasn't ready for the new school year, of course, they didn't. The ministry has been responding to the epidemic all the time, and the epidemic has spread due to non-compliance with the rules, even now it is spreading. If anyone should defend himself in front of people, it is all those individuals who denied the virus who are against vaccination that say that the virus is just a flu, and with various conspiracy theories, they frighten people. The epidemic is here and it's real and with negative behavior we're definitely not gonna beat it. In these difficult times, the minister has been successful in ensuring that schools are open, that children can learn, receive knowledge, and associate. But they do it in a safe way, they test themselves and wear masks. And there is no problem in children that the mask makes it difficult for them to study at school or to make it difficult for them to study on their own. Since the beginning of the school year, the Minister's first thought has been the safety and health of our children. This is her duty and responsibility. She carried out her duties all the time, kept track of the situation, and kept on following decisions, making decisions for the benefit of all children. It has enabled every child to have access to education and to all the assistance they would need. She did her job, and she did it well. However, some of the media and opposition colleagues who today say that the minister is hiding, not working, give her distasteful remarks that I simply, I apologize, is going to throw up. At such a level of communication, humiliation, uncultured labelling of a fellow human being, one simply loses all words. And such a level of communication is supposed to be used by educated people, especially here in view of Mrs Mirnik and Mr Koprivec. On the other hand, we have information that says that more than 18 million were paid for secondary schools, more than 13 million for primary schools, for special needs institutions for children, over 9 million for student homes and so on during co-vide. Not to mention the mayors' support to the Minister, who thanks them for the projects they have been waiting for for 10 years and more, but because of your incompetent minister and the entire ministry, I do not think they are the only ones to thank for their work. 126 investments have been approved for primary schools and kindergartens, and I'm interested in how many you've made in all these years. Not to mention the even higher prize for the Olympic medals. At a time when our children's health should be involved, joined together, unitedly supporting measures that ensure safety, health and education, you have followed your only goal — to overthrow the government. And that we don't talk about media manipulation to our citizens. Interpellations against the Minister, of course, will not be supported. I think she's done everything she can under difficult circumstances. The proof is that the kids are in school today. My kid's in school, too, and he's studying and hanging out with his classmates. Life goes on normally, adapted to the epidemic. Kids understand that. They have no problem understanding the importance of self-testing and protecting themselves and their schoolmates. It would be nice if such responsibilities and solidarity were taught by our colleagues from the left opposition. To conclude, I would like to thank all those teachers, the principals who have accepted the situation in our country, who have adapted to the current situation, who have been willing to cooperate and provide safe education for their children. Although we know that it has been difficult in the initial phase, we now know that the Ministry has made a great deal of effort to make education with the epidemic easier for all of us, including our parents. And if anyone wants to tear it down, they'll destroy it for no reason. If someone wants to see the problem, they'll see it, and they'll create it at the same time. But if we all want to get the best out of all of this and create a favourable environment for life, for all good, it will work, and it will succeed. And this government, the government of Janez Janša, is doing it. And as Minister Kustec said at the outset in her opening speech, politics has nothing to look for in schools and the use of schoolchildren for political struggle is low and shameful.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get Leon Merjasec ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. My friend Merjasec has some time left because I was told by my colleagues that I have about an hour. My friend Meira said she wouldn't listen to the lecture. I'll try to hold on to both of them. Let us be serious and “find good habits” as suggested not only by fellow Ferjan but also by colleague Baković usually says so. Also, “Let’s find good habits and get vaccinated”. Here I have the Klasje, a wonderful newspaper of the inhabitants of Ivančna Gorica Municipality, pleasantly homemade. I stay there sometimes. Special number Stop covid, November 2021. By the way, Mr. Mayor Strnad is from SDS, but I'm coming back to this newspaper. I would like to thank the Minister very much for, in fact, demonstrating how ministers and ministers should behave in this very difficult way and, I will say to the professor, I apologize, Meira, the perplexity system. Before the hearing, of course, it was clear that we would have to go to some hybrid teaching models, but we are very lucky. We have a good Pedagogical Institute, we have a good director there, otherwise it's a little small as Trček, but as far as I know, the only one in Slovenia is crippled for rhetoric, but it's not an empty rhetoric. Mr Igor Z. Žagar can also say things well, critical and not critical. And in preparation for hearing, of course first you run there, sportingly, and talk about what it means now, what is ahead of us, hybrid models of teaching. You will also talk, of course, in Slovenian universities, universities dealing with this, andragogics, didactics, pedagogics. Because you come from the academic community and you're also a regular professor, you know that he's pretty gerontically found the environment still and you're also talking to younger people in these colleges. You also understand, especially since you have NSI in the coalition that “we are digital or not”, as Jože from Žižkov would say, and then you go to Arnes, where there are quite a few wonderful people who have been engaged in this activity for decades to see what the backbone of e-learning will be, then they probably whisper to you there too, so it would be good to get involved with internet service providers and issues. And of course, because you also have a code for scientists and researchers, it's clear to you that the epidemic is being handled by experts in this area. What kind of a gentleman that those who studied medicine with him call him Zoki of Maribor, and a great epidemiologist, like Fafangel. As a political scientist, you are aware that it is also important for them to speak in a diverse Slovenian language, there is no harm in that if someone pulls a little bit of Stairly or coastally, this is not Good Morning, Croatia, where they have recently had a problem with a leader, because he has a little bit of a dub pull, which is nothing wrong again, but this is not the topic of today's interpretation. Next. You look a little over the planks of what others are doing around you, and it's sad to see that your Ninja idea won't go through. Let's knock together. Austria's very quality-made program of instruction for PCR tests in schools, because you know that Slovenia is also an immigrant community, even if Grims or Pojbic doesn't like it, you make such clear instructions as the Austrians, in Slovenian, Turkish and so on, in Velenje absolutely also in Albanian and elsewhere, because you are of course open heads. At the same time, in the government, you convince the Vice President and Prime Minister of the Government that it may not be time to experience some early childhood fantasies, when we are especially the public, but not just the public, like to play soldiers, but that it is more time to give money for even more ICTs, protective equipment, e-didactic solutions, but not for some aircraft today called “flying Nuk”. Of course, you can see as a high school lecturer that you don't have to talk when you have 800 administrators on Zoom that it's some kind of communication. And you also behave appropriately, and you know that there is also a number economy here, and the extent to which there is an upper limit connected to a communication at the same time, so that we can call this communication interactive or dialogueal. You also realize that the young world will be left with them to pay for these loans. I think our last meal of government debt is going to be 2081, unless something's reprogrammed. And you connect with them through different student associations, the Youth Council of Slovenia and so on, so that they can tell you their views on this. Since we live in a globalised world, of course, it is very quickly clear to you that there will also be certain objections, not opposition due to opposition as a form of anti-culture, and, of course, with appropriate experts, you also develop some programs and invite these parents and somehow talk to them, which are very successful in Austria, for example, elsewhere. Now you're aware that maybe it wouldn't be wrong to separate some territorial logistics, maybe on a level, I don't know, probably Mrs. Skrinjar knows better, or Marko, how we have this organized or in a family, we also had a school inspector who, by the way, always came to my father, that someone wouldn't say anything because he was a teacher, and at the Ministry, you just leave that communication when he really cuts something. You also know that the number of circuits you send from the Ministry in the early hours of the evening would then be tried by the principals and principals then read and read, not all lovers of barrels, ribs and similar matters. Maybe it's not the right way to communicate. Maybe it's the right way to communicate. You realize that Slovenia is not only powerful in athletes, but that it is also strong in the very good visuals of the younger and middle generation and you let them draw these consciousnesss that are clear to anyone in the middle or higher groups of educational institutions, some quality picograms. You are very pleased to have top-quality Slovenian scientists and scientists on your team, two have already been particularly exposed, mentioned, Mrs. Jano Javornik with many international experiences, Mr. Juret Gasperic, who by the way wrote a very beautiful book on Slovenian Parliamentarianism and quoted some noble and other people in there. Of course, you want more people like that in your ministry. When somehow the Prime Minister is trapped on a lie, you stand behind your people and somehow advise the Prime Minister not to act like a false ploy that times are too demanding for some fictional news politics. Of course, as a professor of political science, who you point out as the first policy of human rights and democracy as the second policy analysis and public policy, and as the third evaluation of public policies, and as a good student of the Constitution, you will not allow yourself to install one, as we used to call it, General Dolinsk, to sign all these investments that someone has previously listed, because you will already be responsible for it coming out of the constitution. Even as a thinking creature, you know that the state in which we are, or you know, is more important than some walls that will be built in years. Money should probably be directed at something else right now. You also realize that you don't have to compare the incomparable. You even connect with some spatial sociologists, and I don't mean Franca Trcko, Marjan Hočevar, for example, my former associate at the Centre for Spatial Sociology, or people at the Urbanist Institute who do school analysis and see what can be done with relatively small money. You are also aware that, of course, the density of settlement in Slovenia is different from in some countries, with which most members and opposition and coalition want to make comparisons. More than half of our municipalities have not even 5,000 inhabitants, especially when you learn that the virus spreads more in closed areas, you do this, say, what they have been doing in Norway regularly for years, that they have at least one day a week outside. Maybe that's how you go to some hybrid school models, pull some students out of these areas, split the rifts, take them into nature, have a project job. You're doing all this as Minister for this very difficult resort during the pandemic crisis. Of course, you are already relatively early to introduce group testing in schools, not just because of these screening tests, but because of the fact that these tests are being imported by companies that have been doing this for decades, not by some pubes who have been sticking stickers on planes. After all, every slightly more viewed child, if ever taken by plane, sees that there is no sticker up there, because at the height of flying, these stickers would fall down quickly. Is that why you're doing this? You're doing this because of the socialization process. This is what you do to make your child see that shared responsibility and solidarity are prerequisites — what? Community. A prerequisite for society and society. You are pleased that, at the outset, this gentleman has been re-elected as director of the Institute of Education, and you welcome this decision taken by both the staff and the board of the Institute. You are also, of course, happy and trying to make sure that in Slovenian public education, high education develops and prepares quality programs, and you try to invest money in this, not that any Member can vote in such a way, from Dusus and elsewhere, money that would be needed, for example, to develop certain studies at the University of Medicine in Maribor and not just there. Based, of course, on the serious evaluations of the so-called Yankee Universities, you can quickly see that this is often a void for various facsimiles in England to score points and so on. You will also seriously consider this masochism of scoring stamp, which some serious universities no longer go through because the quantity has never in itself produced quality, after all, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is a very beautiful indicator of this. I'm part of this pattern, and I've been a researcher with a complicity for eight years. You're doing all this. You also realize and look at that poster "School without masks", not at the first ball, because it's a funny poster, there's a little girl with a mask. And children are usually smarter and more detailed to see, obviously, than most Members, even your coalitions. You are aware, but not in November 2021, as early as November 2020, that the month of the fight against addiction is that the President of the Government is overly dependent on Twitter, that the President of the country is overly dependent on Instagram, and you invite them to set a pattern together and go to this treatment because it is also a problem for many young and younger people. I recently listened to a radio show about the sexual and other harassment of an eight-year-old girl from the Gorski end, because they have organized this fight against addiction at the municipal level, of course it has little to do with the story of Hit, but not only that. Instead of hanging on these tarts, after all, you have employed pianists to build all the things I do well and I have spoken so far, you go to look a little bit, because in Slovenia there are quite a few teachers and teachers who have started to develop some digitalized and different forms of interpretation, more appropriate understandings of less complex and more complex matters, than the Pythagorean saying ahead, and somehow you try to spread these good practices especially in those times when you have almost a year of education in the distance, among many children. You also realize that children themselves are not all the same informational writers as their parents, and you are somehow trying to deal with this problem. You also realize that this government owes a lot of money, not necessarily smart. You do realize that's gonna have to be paid. You can see that interest will go up at some point to make our loans more expensive. And if we don't want future generations to be cut down like sausages, like our current generations or the families of our parents, you realize that intelligence is the only thing we actually have, and investing in intelligence, investing in science. And then you might whisper to your party boss, self-inflicted, I apologize, so his pirates set out to be a Cossack bull, but maybe it was time to seriously vent the smart specialization strategy, which he writes quite flatly about, we'll be smart about this, uno, third, fifth, seven, and maybe it's time to give up too, because someone who claims that someone who will, I don't know, have made a painting on his neighbor's lawn a little worried, "ekoterist," and "who doesn't do it," I don't know if it's exactly the executives. You're going in the field, properly protected, taking into account the measures and also taking into account what the Ministry of Health and the NIJZ still commands you. In particular, I would like to ask a colleague who is currently chairing the Health Committee, dear Anja, to look at this. You don't have time, do you? You're on the phone. Can you raise your eyes? It won't work. Second time, third time, no, it won't work. Sneezing in your hand. Don't bullshit him! November 2021 and you say as Minister, yes, this is still a measure proposed by a Mrs Nina, who was sometimes with me when I was the head of the SMC Group, quite well cooperated, is a fine epidemiologist. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, it's a left-wing conspiracy, sneezing in your sleeve, right-handed people don't sneeze in your sleeve. And I could still count and waste an hour and piss Meira off. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, my lectures aren't boring. [[…]] [[…]] All of this should be done by the Minister. But what is now this liquid Franc Trček, which goes to every customer's nerves, which he does; by the way, I have replaced fewer customers than Janez Janša and my colleague Breznik. Maria Theresa died in 1780, by the way. It is a mistake for a man, because in the heat of passion all this did not work, and from those fields of expertise I wanted to warn her at that hearing, and at that time even Bane used an option that the Rules of Procedure allowed, but never used. [[…]] And the minister could have stopped Banette and said, "Well, I would have asked him to tell me, but maybe he has something smart to say beyond the fourth industrial revolution in general and in general." All I've been saying is that there's a minimum that all serious ministers and ministers have done by countries that are more successful in dealing with the epidemic than we are. And they didn't apologize for the epidemic. And don't hold on to what one of you bees used to say that we don't actually know what the virus is. This is an insult to Slovenian science. This is an insult to the Slovenian member of the Academy and Mrs Ašič Županc at that institute which deals with these matters where they have scattered parts of the genome of this virus, if I may say so. At the same time, you will boast about how we adopted – all together – some marriage that has been broken for a decade and insulted Slovenian science. In short, the National Assembly will also have to make a generous switch to opinion. More successful than us have also been in countries where the klepto-patternal-corruption situation is similar at present. That's enough if we look at neighbouring Austria. Of those Ibica-pubets against Emoji Kurz, many of you boasted that he was a good friend of yours. I know Secretary of State Mahnic even told me he had his phone number. I hope he's comforting him now. But they did this, as Director Katz said from bilingual school in Slovenian Koroška, First RTV Slovenia, the radio you would like to destroy was very professionally performed all [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Forza Koroška, said our colleague Jana, who will receive the circulars; but I would like to thank you because Jani made that amendment to get us another school in Montenegro, where they really need it. [[…]] Thanks, Jani, I promised. [[Laughing in the hall]] Serious back. And even if all governments were a hundred times more left than they were, most governments have been left-handed, because since I am here in Parliament neither Cerar nor Sarec, there is no such thing as an orgasm, a truth to love. That's not an excuse. That's not an excuse. With that same logic of yours, I would say now, I don't know if there would be any other government, but according to your logic, the mayor of Sternad, uh, dammit, these are now some left-wing governments, nothing, I'm not gonna do anything. To overthrow the government – I commended Secretary of State Gorenak when the folk spat on me, in that first PKP there were quite a few communications, cooperation, then the big cap said, it won't happen, and since then you're just throwing up. So, Meira, I won't be too long. What was it like? "Smart reads" and not only what too many populist experts write to them, we don't have those on the left. “Let us find good habits”, I agree here with Mr Sternado, completely, and commend this, I am also pleased, even commending at the time in those first waves when you were smuggling and wanted those 250 million plus, Gale said, 500 million turn around and at least 100 million order, he threw us some masks that they sewed quickly. I accidentally got a mask that was kind of awkwardly stitched up, and I couldn't put it around my head. Perhaps if the left mayor had done so, they would have tweeted: “Mother, we would have been fighting” Yes, “Let’s find good habits”. [[…]] Maybe, say, in 14 days we'll turn off the screws on Levstik and on Trstnik. Come on, we're saving, it's energy poverty. But we have a position when we're world champions. And I'm not proud of that. Some colleagues in the opposition take it as ha ha ha ha. We're all screwed, I'll say what I have at the end of my language: We've all screwed this up, grown-ups. And that's why we're so busy with these kids right now if it cuts me a little white. Quite a few immunologists, epidemiologists have made that clear. But someone's responsible. And the secretary would say so, but wait, we're in school in the 21st century -- you know? When my father trained me 45 years ago, the reeducation did not work the way Jelk Kacin or as Professor Ihan wrote: “When I needed a priest, we got it, ” I don’t know what. [[…]] All of this should connect and protect Slovenian intelligence and enable the development of Slovenian intelligence. She's actually the secretary of opinion. It is also responsible for the entire line of scientific research in essence and co-operation, not only in medicine but also in epidemiology. After all, it comes from the FDV, and it eventually teaches this content. Do you know that it teaches policy analysis, implementation and evaluation of public policies, comparative human rights policies, first of all that it is an expert in human rights and democracy policies. Such a minister should not allow some government of anti-intellectualism and iliberalism, as we have learned. Marko would say Janshism, but I would say only arrogant primitiveism and aspiration with the sugar of power – we have earned, we have earned. The minister should say: "My dears, this is not politics, this is a cow's ball. It is a policy to redistribute the rareness of goods according to needs.” But if we go, we're done - somewhere you're going to build a circle of threes, and the nineties you're not going to, maybe there's a more important circle. You're denying politics in your heart. You're some sort of self-inflicted mix-up. Regrettably, the most pronounced limb of this is the absent colleague Reberšak, who I hope will quickly resolve his problems with the covidus. All of this should be brought to the attention of the Minister. And Madam Secretary, it's quiet. She's not here. He'd rather back off and think. Okay, because we're one of them for communication, and others need some time. There's not much of her thinking here either. In short, my former FDV colleague Simoni Kustec would like to thank us for showing us what a minister or minister should be like in this difficult department and what a minister or minister would have to be like in this difficult area. He'll have to stand behind his people, he won't have to allow himself to be directed by someone who's just coordinating the government's work with his defensive mind in the first half of the '80s. Flight. In short, the next minister or minister in the government, who will have many challenges, will have to do a number of problems, as the former FDV colleague, Dr Simona Kustec, unfortunately does in this government. In short, I have colleagues here, and who else is here, in the coalition contract, we can only write this: education -- the opposite of Simon. Pika. And there's no need for a coalition contract to be a novel. So much for a little while. That's enough, Meira? [[advertising from the hall]] Have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Procedural? Yes, Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u190	Madam President, thank you for your word. You just changed and probably didn't hear from me, so I would just like you to warn my friend Duck that where I sit, I always sit in my seat in the hall, where I look, and it's probably just a Member's decision. And it's going to be very hard to work in the future if we go so far as to even have to put accounts on someone, where we look, who we look at and what we look at. But for the sake of the public, I would say, yes, I was looking at the phone, and I was wondering when my colleague Duck went from Left to SD, because I'm afraid he'll be knocking on our door by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u191	This was not a replica, Dr. Trček, it was a procedural proposal which was not really about the use of the Rules of Procedure, but I believe that [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Duck, I'm talking and you can't just take your word for it. If you don't mind, I'll finish first. Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]] No, I didn't. When I was talking, you turned on your microphone. I just wanted to say that Mrs Anja Bah Žibert abused the procedural proposal, but a colleague, because Dr Trček heard you, did not talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, but answered him what he was saying in his debate. So Dr. Duck, you don't have a replica, because it was a process proposal, and I can't give you a word for the replica. Thanks for understanding. The next word is Mr Leon Merjasec, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! We'd better get back to interpolation. In the field of education and education, it was and is still necessary to ensure the success of covid-19 in ensuring that the educational process is carried out smoothly, and this is the success of Minister Simoni Kustec with her team. The spread of the virus also requires new measures in the education system, which is now self-testing in primary schools and secondary schools and so on. Of course, there have been problems and there are and, as I can see, calls from some individuals will still be, as this is a major challenge for all stakeholders, for students, students, students, teachers, teachers and even for parents themselves. Last such a call, the request came from the mayor of Semič, who asked the administrators in the municipality not to follow the instructions of the PCT conditions. But I didn't find any evidence of opposition anywhere. Let me also remind you that it is important to remember that the anti-measure requirements started a year ago, first of all against the installation of the application Stay healthy. Four party leaders supported this. You advertised that I would not read why you disagreed or disagreed. The events were followed in the National Assembly itself by one of today’s interpelling promoters, Mark Koprivac, who ripped the mask off his face. Then individuals in protests, professor of history, and, of course, the call to the directors of the School without Masks and that the SD supports it not to continue listing, the former Secretary of State, the president of the SD party with the former Secretary of State and today's Member of State. Today, however, the hospitals are full and the stitches are mutilated, measures are taken, and you are perceived by the government as well as the ministers. Ministry under the leadership of the Minister. It has increased wages, written curricula for digital content, prepared legal provisions to mitigate the effects of covida-19 epidemics, increased funding for education and sport, also for scientific research activities, strengthened assistance to sports and athletes, enabled students to pay a single solidarity allowance, prepared guidelines for the implementation of long-distance schools and many other solutions and assistance in the field of education, science and sport. The largest amount was allocated to kindergartens at the time of the codua epidemic, €49.7 million. For primary schools, €13.9 million was paid. 18.3 million euros were paid for secondary education. In the area of higher education, including the single solidarity allowances for students, 24.5 million euros were paid. Nor has it been forgotten that institutions with special needs received €9.3 million and students' homes with €2.9 million, student homes with the same, almost €6 million. By the end of October 2021, €133.4 million had been paid to codify the measures. The maximum payment was for the loss of parental payments for kindergartens, free kindergarten for another child. The Minister was informed that she had done nothing in the field of protective equipment intended also for air-cleaning devices. I must say that the Ministry provides funds for the purchase of protective equipment to operators in this area, education, education and science. Intruders may also use these funds to purchase air-cleaning devices. So far, 11.1 million euros have been paid for this purpose. The Ministry also increases funds for investments in school premises. The renovation and new construction of school buildings, co-financing from the state budget, is a design after all modern standard buildings, meaning that the care to ensure an adequate ventilation system is also an integral part of the investment in school buildings. 13.3 million euros in investment in kindergarten, 27.7 million euros in primary school, 2 million investments in education of nationalities. The additional amount of funding, following a decision by the Government, for the so-called so-called so-called droughts from previous years amounts to an additional €72 million. Of these, 32 million go to kindergartens and 40 million go to primary school. These funds will be spent in 86 municipalities throughout Slovenia, which is why this government and the Ministry of Labour for the People. For all the above reasons, Minister Simon Kustec, I hope you will not receive another interpolation and have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you. That's interesting. I don't know. I thought every government worked for people. But did these governments — if I'm a little cynical — before that — work for farmers rather than for people? I don't know. Second. Children need some normalization, not concrete. Once you get this concrete, you're going to push them halfway through the school to get infected first. They also need some reflection on how to organize a school in nature. They also need to consider how it will now be compressed in three, four weeks when all the assessments will have to be obtained. That's what I promised at home that I had to say or they'd fight me. In fact, my arrival in the SDS, and I can basically take over the SDS myself, but first we're going to take a course in decoupling dependency on Twitter and then take a course in non-violent communication. Get ready. Thank you. [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by the proposer, Dr. Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Vice President. What we heard at the outset by the Minister and then by all coalitions, now in the SDS, is particularly good at reading such a faithful supporter of the SDS, is unusual. You keep grinding and grinding with these numbers and these tables how many of these meetings and this, but we're still walking away from what is the key to the question. Let's do it nice again, very specific. I would like to hear the answers to these questions: No matter how many pages there are in some Excel's list of meetings, my question is very direct. How is it possible, if it has been so inclusive, so constructive and so many meetings with all stakeholders, that you still have a whole school field for your opponents, when you are criticized by every teacher, every principal and every other employee in this system? That's the first question I've ever heard. Like Franjo said before, meeting with eight hundred and one participants can't be a meeting, and that's what I'm saying. You can turn on some AVK meetings and have them because of me in the morning, in the afternoon, in the evening every day, but it won't be enough if you're not ready to listen, understand, talk and so on. So the gap between the image or some idea you have about what was done and the real effects, you see, exactly what was going on. What you're saying is, yes, it's people's fault. Yeah, they're guilty. I agree. Children are much smarter at this time, unfortunately, much more responsible than they should be at these years, even for those of the youngest in primary schools than their parents in some cases. That's sad, and it's a problem, but part of that responsibility is also borne by the government. You're saying that, I don't know, it's obvious from your explanations, from your argument, as if Slovenia were some kind of a fugitive. It is only with us that we are so different people that people do not agree with these measures. And I wonder, yes, for God's sake, why is this happening? Yeah, 'cause we're kind of weird. I think we are one of the few countries in Europe that has such a government. The government, which has a government president and ministers who daily insult their citizens and citizens who make up new things every day, create scandals and, on the other hand, rob the country with such and other corruption affairs, from the acquisition of masks – you explain how computers are procured and what – the minister was unable to bring one mask truck to Slovenia, he sought it there after some border crossings. You're investing now, you're giving money, the minister gave it away – she didn't give anything to the minister. From the budget, from some of the items you've blown up, which we don't even know how they're going to come back and pay, with the debt you're going to pay, you've just set something up. Three days ago, you weren't able to make a few $10 million out of the budget to cover the salary raises for suppliers and nurses. You've made a populism deal with them, yes, we'll raise your wages. And what did you do in the next step? The pensioners and their families will pay for the salary raise. [[clapping]] At the same time, on the same day, the Minister of Defence goes to Italy, to Rome for a plane, and then his secretary there explains that this aircraft is capable of transporting six bags of thousands of cubic metres of water – I do not know what kind of aircraft this is bigger than Slovenia – and that it will be able to put out fires. At the same time, you've accepted 780 million investments in the military. And you are boasting about these few schools and kindergartens that will be built, for which you only anticipated money and initial investments. Nothing's been built yet. And in a climate like this, it's clear that people can't do it anymore. And this is a unique Slovenia, not that people don't trust science by default because they are Slovenians or because they live in Slovenia and I don't know what, but because we have this government. And the fact that people or some part of the people don't want their children to test themselves in schools -- I signed my consent the same day that it came to the e-mail -- is partly the government's fault and it's the Ministry's fault. Because you can't communicate at 5:00 p.m. at 11:00 a.m. with a mask decree that goes into effect in three days. Don't wave at me. I'll say it again. I was monitoring that Friday's entire press conference with all the anticipated waiting and then three days later it was mandatory to wear only surgical and FFP-2 masks. Once again, I agree, but in three days, masks that are no longer available on the market were not able to be bought by people. And then what happened? Mrs Beović comes or I don't know who he was, Mrs Logar says, "Well, no, no, no, because this week they should wear the goods and then the suppliers will make sure there is enough supplies." And that's the problem, that's the confusion you're creating. First of all, the first government is responsible, and for each department is each minister individually, and here is the problem of the Ministry of Education and Minister Kustec. Since there were no clear instructions, precise instructions, timely instructions - and they were not there when the first school was closed, they were not there before the school year, there was no self-testing and so on - so everyone says, yes, there is no communication, we want to be listened to, heeded, set up a group that will deal with how the schooling and these things will take place all the time. Then this absence of this understanding and willingness to listen is reflected in this whole stunt of fiascos that happen. This ministry's response is full of pacalisms, like the one who says, yes, we've been through the epidemic well, and there's something else to learn from it, and everything's great. It's not supported. With what? Where do we have the indicators? Where did the data show that we had been through this epidemic so successfully in the school area? When you're responding to claims about school closing. We've gone now, this time this interpellation is running, to our world database and data to look for data for Slovenia. Under the parameters of School Closures you have three possible digits, 3, 2, 1. 3 is full closure and 2 is partial closure 1 are only recommendations. If you include data under this table, the full closure was 159 days and the partial closure was 114 days, total 273 days. What does the Ministry say? 154 days. You deceive and cover up your mistakes at every turn to somehow get out of this situation. But the saddest part is that as long as you didn't want to spend your basic area, not only at the Mišš, but in the whole government, you're exponentially devoting it to some strange robots. Again, yesterday the government accepted a tender for concessions to some private higher education institutions, which are very specific. Their specifics are that they'll be close to the SDS party. So now that I don't know, let's say we don't have money to raise wages for caregivers and caregivers in homes for older citizens, because says Mr. Brickler King: "We have exhausted all funds." But you will find money to finance Mr. Toplak and Rončevič's private college. That's what the money's gonna be for. I mean, if it's not nepotism and clienteleism and corruption, I don't know what it is. All the capable personnel are cut, not only in education and in the ministry, but throughout the country, you're now cleaning up the police, among other things. But there's no money for some basic stuff. And like every debate we have about every minister - every minister - the minister is a symptom of this disease, which we call the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, each individual is responsible for the situation currently prevailing in society and should also leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by the Magi's proponent. Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Vice President. Look, actually, I've been following the Minister's silence for a while. I wanted to ask you more procedurally why the Minister is not answering anything. After all, today's interpretation is intended primarily for the Minister to present her vision or reject the findings that we are putting forward for interpretation. But you've been quiet all the time, and in fact it's been going on all the time. I've already come forward twice and I've pointed out some specific things, and there are no answers to questions, specifically with regard to concessions and other things. I would also like to answer my colleagues from the SDS, particularly my colleague Merjasc, who has somehow indirectly linked this mayor, who is calling for non-compliance with the measures, with us. I mean, she's of the kind of SLS, so she has nothing to do with neither the SD party nor the KUL opposition, so there won't be any confusion in the public. On the one hand, because you say that we do not respect the measures, on the other hand, Mayor Semič is essentially a representative of the SLS party, which is with you in the coalition and you have their state secretaries and other officials. Minister, I'm asking you to come by, because otherwise I really don't see the point of this conversation in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next one has the word mag. Bojana Muršič, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert is preparing for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished minister! I must say that I am disappointed with you, as a former colleague who in fact met you in the previous term, I must say that you were the strong leader of the Group of Members, the largest group of Members at the time, and I must say that you surprised me with your determination at that time. I was also happy when you were appointed Minister, because at last, I will say, there were at least two women, or there were three women in this government, now there are only two women who have the opportunity to perform this function, but I must say that you have disappointed me, at least by this way of leading this ministry in these difficult times. I'll start like this. Today's speech was that it would be better for the minister to enjoy the children at the Slovenian traditional breakfast, but since our meeting started at ten o'clock, I believe the minister was happy with the children, she ate this traditional Slovenian breakfast, because breakfast is usually the first school hour, which is somewhere between eight and nine o'clock, so that, in my opinion, the children of her presence were happy at least where she attended. We could now continue to remember this time of epidemic together with one great pain, both by the number of deaths of more than five thousand, and by the large, deep, painful wound in the Slovenian educational system. A wound that could otherwise be smaller if somehow the ministry did its job and it was very up-to-date, but that was not the case. We have been living with the new coronavirus epidemic in Slovenia for over a year and a half. If we remember, a year ago, the minister said that we would have to continue living with the epidemic and the virus and that we would have to get used to it. And if this was still normal to me a year ago, then I also expected the Minister to step forward, listen to experts, and somehow drive this school system as necessary. On the part of my colleague Trček, there were quite a lot of things strung up today and perhaps you, Minister, listened to some background in some room of ideas about how this educational process could be carried out. But we're actually where we are, or half the school year will be slowly behind us or not yet, well, yeah, but the situation is serious. In the school year 2020/2021 Slovenia was indeed one of those countries that were the longest closed. A colleague earlier said that it was a total imprisonment of 159 days. And if it was still in the first wave of the epidemic, it was kind of normal for me and they stayed closed for some of the students and then opened up for May, but for some of the students, the remaining schools were closed until June. And who are the ones who didn't actually come to school? They were students. High school, from the first to the third year, which did not return to the school process at all before school summer vacations. And it's these kids, third-year-olds, who are joining the prom this year, who lost two school trials. And I was already talking about distance education at the first interview, how much knowledge was gained at the time, and I'm a little bit afraid of what's going to happen to these kids when they approach prom. What's going to be the success at the prom? After all, these children who had completed their graduation this year had major traumas, but the result was still quite successful. But these kids have already been repeating these things that they've learned. Usually the school process, at least when I was in school, we had a repetition in our first year of primary school, and the second, the third year we were taking a lot of substance, and in our fourth year we were solidifying the substance. But now there's a big problem, because at the end of the second and third years, somehow they got away. And I really want to know what the success of these kids is going to be at the prom. Well, it's not just prom. With these children of the generation, which concluded the school process in the school year 2020/2021, I had a lot to talk about, the students were in great mental distress, and there were mental problems. However, the state of mental health of children and youth and the availability of this professional care have increased further in this area during the coronavirus. If children and adolescents were able to go to the counsellor’s office at the time of the school process, when they had a bit of a breakdown and felt anxious, they talked to her, were left to themselves at the time of the epidemic. Many have found themselves in such severe straits that self - injury, depression, has taken place. Unfortunately, the last time a colleague mentioned that a number of suicides had also occurred, and that must concern us honestly. But the biggest problem is that the accessibility to psychological treatment and to psychiatrists, pedopsychiacs, is very limited, everyone has their capacity full. It's just that these kids can't be strengthened somehow and put on, I'll say, a healthy foundation. So, believe me, when the month of March comes, if not sooner, there will be problems again with these fourth graders who will face the graduation. How can these children be helped? Now, at this point, I'm really wondering, because in health, I don't think there's gonna be a chance for a while. Psychologists and pedopsychiatrists are filled in, so it would be necessary to help psychologically even staff in secondary schools, social workers as well as professors. It therefore saddens me that when we adopt the budget, we have not provided additional resources to help these schools, so that they can become even more professional and help these children, because they are the only ones who can help them, and it would be possible to do less in the future of these traumas, and God forbid any more of these suicides. And these are the children that are most at impact. These are children who are 18, 19 years of age, who are simply still in this puberty, do not find a way out, but one gets confused elsewhere, and this is something that really needs to be helped. So in this place, it really saddens me that we haven't found those few million dollars so we can put things on a healthy footing. The competent ministry you run has also not contributed significantly to the improvement of this epidemiological picture by means of measures. Unfortunately, with your inactivity, inappropriate, I will say, late response, including these exclusional relations and unclear and often conflicting information have caused great harm and lasting harm to such learning children, then also to parents and families, but the worst is that even to society as a whole. Unfortunately, you did not give clear instructions, professional opinions, they were often quite political, but I know that we are talking about politics and that you are a politician, but we should really follow the professions and talk to those of your closest colleagues, directors who are facing the issue of the educational process. Although, Minister, as I have already said, a year ago you knew that the educational system will continue to be carried out with this virus in 2021/2022, but communication on this implementation and coordination with all stakeholders began, unfortunately only 14 days before the start of the new school year. I also wondered as a mother whether my student would go to school or not to go to school on September 1st. And as we spoke today, yes, you just went to Tokyo. Yeah, I have to say, although I'm glad you supported our athletes with these excellent results, I'm going on a trip when I got everything done at home. When I take care of the baby, if I go alone when I've got my pussy taken care of. I don't think you did your homework at the time. First you have to do your homework at home, then you have no problem going where you had your way. That's why I really don't know why you've gone so far here, because a month before the start of the school year should have a full curriculum of clear instructions on how to start at the beginning of the school year. And for 14 days, it was a pretty big deal for the principals to just adjust the school process. Which, of course, we were warned about. In the Syndicate of Education and Education, 14 days before this, they had been strongly reminded that they did not know the essential answers to how learning would begin and that playing on the patience of parents, administrators, teachers, employees, and students was really unacceptable at that time. Such a story, the situation was also described by Gregor Pečan, president of the Association of Principals of Primary Schools, and once again warned that we would live with the virus, that it was unacceptable that they had to wait for information until 17 August. And if I touch just these masking decisions. I have to say that I have no problem wearing surgical or FFP-2 masks. But there's been a problem. If you have taken such a measure or decree on the government, you should also think in the direction that it is necessary for these children to provide a sufficient amount of these children’s surgical masks, without then arriving the first time, on Monday you should start wearing masks and the mask should not be given anywhere, for the first time. But I have to tell you that a lot of parents said, yeah, I'd give the kid happy, but then we're back to that but. [[…]] Why doesn't the Ministry or the school provide us with this, why don't we get it in schools? For this was an extra cost for many. Even children can't wear one mask all day, masks need to be changed. And really, all parents don't have that kind of money to make sure the kids change masks. Therefore, it would be really reasonable or urgent for us to think about the consequences of what will happen when you make a decision. And here really think about the consequences, what will happen, what will happen next. I believe you can do that, given that you said that the team of 700 experts at your ministry, one teambuilding, more heads knows more, it was still, and that you're thinking about steps forward. Today, my colleague Trček gave you a very good idea about the educational process. Maybe that four days in the school trial in a closed room, maybe one day on the ground. The idea is actually a lot, but you really need to listen and maybe take the right ideas, weigh them a little bit and see where we are. And there was a lot of confusion about this testing of children. Your parents asked you nicely to test those young children at home. And I believe my parents would do that. I see that testing is a contribution to essentially removing those infected from society as a whole, but you need to listen a little bit to your parents, the whole professional public. You may also begin to think that this testing would somehow be done with a possible saliva. I feel like I've been chasing my nose all over again and again every two days, and I don't know if that's the best thing. [[…]] I can say for myself, anytime, because I'm testing myself, and whenever I go to the institution for testing, I have blood in fact. It really bothers me a little bit, frankly, because blood is present, because it comes to this one, I don't know if I have such a nostril, but it seems to me that children are also facing it, and it really would be necessary to think in this direction. We just want to be constructive because I believe that you are parents or we all want to keep schools open, that we can drive, and that we will have a healthy society at the end. I'm sorry, Minister, as I said, I'm disappointed in you, so I'm going to support this interpellation as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Get ready, Mr. Željko Ciegler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Somehow the last session, which was held in the National Assembly on the subject of government and the resignation of government, the early elections, has shown one thing, and that is the point of all. It's not about content, it's not about power of argument, it's about exhaustion. Of course, the exhaustion of those who are facing the biggest health crisis in recent years in the government today is also essentially engaged in EU governance. In short, two major cases on the government's shoulders and all its members, but apparently the manoeuvres of the opposition are the same as they are. But you know, after all, Minister, I see what you're looking at, the problem is the opposition, because like then, even today there are empty chairs, the proposaler is once again only one in the Chamber. And in the end, I find that they are exhausted and not you. I congratulate you on that. And I learned something else today about you, which is very interesting to me, and I've noticed a little bit. That you're too quiet. I don't know. I'm sure your kids are happy. They'd be mine. I also heard that you were guilty of not having to close schools as late as possible. I would very much like to hear from my colleague Vatovec if he has a calendar of covida, because he can probably show on the calendar when that is the right moment. Second of all, I found it interesting that you didn't have the authority. This is the one who could go to Laugh is half healthy because apparently some people don’t even know what they’re using or using strangers, but they don’t know what they mean. That you're incompetent. This has been the worst for me, because I really appreciate not only the ability, but also very much the education, even those who have achieved some academic success. What's worse is that it's obvious that someone who supports or supports a mandate-holder who's had a problem with high school, but let's just leave it. You know, that's not the problem. Your problem is somewhere else. Your problem is you're not Jurcek. Now, if you were Jurcek today, then everything would be fine and fine, but the various juries have their own way again today, the poor, the troubles. I feel sorry for them because I know how much the party system knows. I hope Jurcek's still all right. In short, let's just leave this a little bit of a joke for real, but I think that's your biggest problem. Because I know you're following a policy that you think is happening and no one else has had this experience, none of the ministers, so all the comparisons are superfluous. [[…]] In fact, you also have to plow some ice in this area and it's not easy. Today it was also important to me, as far as Coronavirus itself is concerned, the number of the dead by the opposition, I'm sorry, but this seems the most distasteful and, in fact, rejected. Because on one side you count the dead all the time, and on the other side please tell me if you know how to count one hand, and I'll be happy to see how many times you've asked people not to rally, not to jump on the streets, not to hang out. For since we are already at this, let us see what the basis for the coronary virus is. It is said that people have some distance, at least two meters, and that they also respect other measures, such as wearing a mask and so on. Because Coronavirus is a drip infection and, of course, is also transmitted by speaking, by fast breathing and so on. But I've never heard you call people to stay home for themselves and for the protection of others, including children. The more infected, the worse the condition, the sooner the schools close. You know, these are the double criteria. On the one hand, support for those who violate measures and spread the virus is known today, and on the other hand, demand someone to know the exact date when to close the school and what is best. The best thing for our children is that they are healthy and, of course, they have all the opportunities for education. And I strongly oppose those who keep talking, the schools have been closed. Schools weren't closed. The lesson was going on from a distance. It's a lesson. And the Ministry responded very quickly. President, I would only ask if you would warn me because I'm disturbed. Really, I hear a echo. In short, this is simply about the fact that the form of schooling had to be different. Of course, the schools weren't closed. I was interested in listening to my colleague Muršič, and I like to listen to her talk about children’s problems. True, our children also have mental distress, not only since the coronavirus, but they have had it before. I wanted to do a lot in this National Assembly to bring about the first practically real children's clinic in the Department of Psychiatric Clinic in Ljubljana, but this took a long time. Now we have this department. Nor is it true that children did not have access to counselling, nonstop, nonstop access via Zoom. Look, I can tell you about our school, and my kid's been looking for this kind of help, and he said, "I can't believe Mom, what kind of response they have." So it obviously depends on how the school organized itself. Yeah, well, you know this isn't about school. We have a problem somewhere else. We don't have pedopsychiatrics, we don't have clinical psychologists. And this government has also regulated this with the Emergency Health Act. Time is running out, and I still have a lot to say, but I'm only going to say one more thing, too bad that Vatovec's colleague isn't here. When he tells me about the SVIZ, I always have a little problem because I don't know when he's talking about Mr Strukkl and so on, whether he's talking about the need to protect some of the interests of the workers, or whether it's because someone doesn't support the Left policy, where Mr Strukkelj is also located and where he has also run. And as a minister, I would certainly distance myself from a variety of individual conversations, because it's actually hard for him to know what it's all about. That's another problem. That's another problem, and I think it's a very big one. And once again, don't tell the minister how he's setting up some private schools and so on. They've been before. Look at the fragment. Your MP went to private school, too. Where would he end up if there wasn't a private school? So it's not all that black and white. Minister, I don't think he's afraid for your support today. Of course, once again, the opposition failed to maneuver to exhaust someone. I believe everything is exhausting for you, but I believe you will go even stronger from this story tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Željko Cigler, prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Madam Secretary! I agree with my colleague Bah Žibertova that children must be healthy or young, those who attend the educational system. This should be open, functional and therefore healthy. In particular for functionality and for the fact that the educational system is open to upgrading, in particular the public education system, and therefore you are the first and first responsible, Madam Minister. And if the system doesn't run, I agree with my colleague Muršičeva, you don't have to go out of the country or deal with other things until you ensure that the education system in Slovenia doesn't work from kindergarten to study. Above all, those who implement the educational system have clear and understandable conditions ahead of them to ensure that kindergartens, primary schools, special needs, secondary schools and study programmes are in progress. Today, it has been mentioned and in the interpretations of both, not only by Members, but in particular I think that the fair is accompanied by today's meeting by both education and education workers and that they expect some answers. And not that we are going to confuse the opposition, the coalition among ourselves some quantification, insults and so on, but that we will get clear answers about how you, as the minister responsible for this in the government - not the government, you are the first to do so - you represent that our education system will work in the future. Unfortunately, I have to say that I am also eager to expect some answers, so far they have not been answered. Let's let it surprise us. But I will say what we are doing together, as a Member of Parliament and you as Minister of Education, that I, as well as my colleagues and fellow Members, are reminding you that many of the open points that are being carried out in education are getting worse. But there's no response here. Despite the arguments, despite warnings, clear indications of facts, there is no change. I'm practically afraid that, under your guidance, the educational system will collapse into itself. Why, Madam Secretary, is that what I'm saying? About ten days ago, I don't know exactly which day it was, you had a zoom conference with all the principals of Slovenian primary schools. I have to say that I had the opportunity to jump to one of the principals nearby and attend this your Zoom conference. I must say that I was shocked, shocked at the fact that there were practically zero answers to the clear questions and problems, without the answers, the questions of the principals and principals remained. No answers. But most of all, I remember that when you came to the end of the debate, which you had excellently concluded with your speech at the end, I did not literally understand what you wanted to say and whether you were following the previous debate when the principals were involved, but I will tell you the concrete case that it was. When the director said that a particular child did not come with a mask and that the parents did not respond despite warnings and that he made a declaration in accordance with the Ministry's instructions, that you then told him from the Ministry to collect documentation and then after all that dialogue went on, the representative of the Education Inspectorate said, yes, that was true, but that problem was that there was no legal basis for sanctioning or settling the matter. And there have been some other cases like this. I was shocked by the inquality, inefficiency of the meeting that you stated in your defense, how successful you are against interpretation, not number, but a completely unproductive matter. And I fear that today's debate on interpolation, which is very important - we must not underestimate the education and education system in Slovenia - in order to end the debate by voting or voting. Then the matter can go unaltered until the conclusion and mandate of this government. Madam Minister, I ask you: Are you aware of the objective damage you are causing to the educational system through your actions, your irresponsibility, your failure to respond to problems? What harm do you cause to students and students, students who are severely deprived of their practical education? I think there might be some kind of answer. I was sure that you would equip us today or answer us with concrete indications of analyses and evaluations as to how the area of distance education, the implications of the system, left the participants with what you found necessary in primary schools, in kindergartens, in secondary schools to strengthen things to change. I expect you to say something. Now I just want to say these two things. I like that you're sitting here because you're not usually here. You are sitting here as secretaries, with respect to them, Mr Damir Orehovec and Mitja Slavinec, any point our National Assembly or the Education Committee, together with other committees, is considering. You come to answer to the Members, or you are allowed to speak, probably especially when it comes to interpolation. I'd like to say this. Look. Two things just because of the ventilators. Madam Minister, you said earlier that between the ages of 5 and 14 the population of Slovenia is actively infected with 21.5%, so I wrote it down somewhere. There's a lot of covid in school. But the fact is that this can be prevented by an appropriate technical approach, and we have talked about this here many times before, this is with the airmen. In many parts of the world, they do this and observe that the transmission of the infection has been reduced several times. In short, children or young people in education and education are not alone if they are infected or are not carrying the virus out. I ask, Madam Minister: Why don't you use your ministerial status and your power to enforce in this government, to immediately start in classrooms, to place airmen in classrooms? Because when you don’t – do you know what you’re doing objectively? Additional burden on Slovenian hospitals and personnel, which we say is no longer a place to help such a number of infected people, adolescents and employees in education in Slovenia. Look, you're objectively helping to spread covid because you don't take measures that are purely technical, professional, which we've had to deal with twice on our education committee so that the virus doesn't spread in schools. And quite a few schools, the principals informed me after Slovenia, the primary and secondary schools, began looking for funds that the Ministry of Education should provide objectively and legally in order to install air conditioners or air cleaners. And another thing when it comes to children with special needs. Madam Minister, I have made it clear to you, for the last time, through the question of the delegation, that you know that in 660 children with guidance decisions given to them through this decision, that the right or the need to provide for an escort does not guarantee this companion, or that at the Ministry that you are running it, they break the law and you tolerate it, even though you have vowed to respect the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, that one group in the Ministry of Education throws the decision into a re-direction, which is a legal act, and appoints students with the same decisions 0.25 percent of the job of the accompanying person, 0.3 percent of the job of the accompanying person or of the entire escort. Who first allows this discrimination to be said to children with the same decisions, you will have it, and you will not have it, or you will have it so much, and you will have it so much? On what legal basis are you doing this? How can you thus allow yourself to violate the rights of children with special needs and their parents? And this arbitration of the Ministry, as far as the matter is concerned, seriously, without chance. And that no member of the coalition will now answer me, yes, because this has already been done. See, you have been appointed Minister in order to carry out the specific tasks necessary to maintain quality and raise the quality of the education system in our country. And since we're talking about this to appeal to you about these obligations that you have to carry out, I literally don't understand how you still have a face to come here and talk about, everything's fine, everything's fine, we've assured you how much, a few 10 million for investment in primary schools and kindergartens. It is great that you are, for schools and kindergartens in Slovenia, but there are many other things that need to be solved. And this irresponsible behavior that you passively stand by the multitude of other cases that have occurred even today, at the time of previous interpretation, or here, when questions are asked you, and that you are doing nothing, I simply have no answer to such behavior and conduct. Are you aware, Madam Minister, of your responsibilities? Or if you can tell me in concrete terms why you can't step down on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Meira Hot, get ready, Mr. Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u206	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, good evening! First of all, I would say that I am very sorry that the distinguished Madam Minister has missed the debate, a lecture by Dr. Trčko's colleague, because he has indeed outlined in a very comprehensive, realistic, professional way your work or better said non-action. I very much agree with his description of the actual situation in which we live, as some extreme arrogance of power. For me, you are also a symbol of this extreme arrogance, of this life in some parallel world. It bothers me, too, when they talk on the other side. Please, Madam President, I too would like to ask for peace, like colleague Anja Bah Žibert, to be the same vats for everyone – this extreme distance from reality has been accompanying you since the beginning of this term, Madam Minister. In your first interpolation, you were as blinded as you are now blinded by this word by power, by not having any contact with actual life at all. In your opening remarks, you can see that. You're saying, oh, next week I'm going to be in Brussels not to worry about us, if, in fact, it's just a matter of squeezing the opposition, and you're a poor victim of a system that really fights for children, for schoolchildren, for everyone. Do you know when you Google Simon Kustec, what shows you as the most wanted category? »Where is Simona Kustec?«, category “Where is Simona Kustec?« Do you imagine that Google is looking for your name and your last name, category “Where is Simona Kustec?”? So what we're saying, Madam Minister, is that yours has been gone for a year and a half. You show up once every six months, you pounce on the opposition, the ugly opposition, and now you've flung a little on your parents, who are disobedient to the little hysterical, because you're taking the measures that are urgently needed in this fight against the virus, in this sincere fight that you're fighting. You're fighting an honest fight. And I'd be ashamed to look people in the eye, not say that -- some high-flying words. [[…]] My parents aren't hysterical. Parents aren't stupid. The parents were just left without any interlocutor when your ministry decided overnight, and now the children will test themselves. You didn't submit any empirical research. Some today also ridiculed the directors who asked for at least a 14-day period in which they would adapt to these new measures. We've come so far that you think 14 days, which is a very short time, is a joke worth it. Because I don't know when the government decides, anyone can adjust overnight. I mean, we get used to this life from week to week, from decision-making to decision-making. You're going to school today, you're not going to school tomorrow, you're going to test yourself today, you're not going to test yourself tomorrow. Yeah, then ask questions, of course. How can children test themselves if the manufacturer’s instructions say that under the age of 14 you should not actually test yourself? Yes, you must follow the manufacturer's instructions. Yeah, but how? Yeah, so follow them. The biggest problem with all this management of your ministry is the chaos you created, the conflict you constantly create with stakeholders. Chaos and conflict in all sectors. That's why I'm saying you're completely out of line with reality. Because if you don't see it, if you haven't responded to it in your response to interpolation in any part of the day, unless you've ridden an ugly opposition that doesn't understand your sincere fight against the covidal epidemic, that's all you've seen, you don't hear, you don't want to hear any criticism, let alone constructive. Nothing at all. When parents yell at you to help them, you go all the way to the principals and schoolchildren, give them the circuits just before midnight, and then you're still good at it, because they got the instructions, and I've already told them everything. This, of course, when you come from Paris or Tokyo or wherever you are, wherever you are, even from Brussels. You're talking about some method that works, about tomorrow's education, about tomorrow's fight, about how you're going to beat the virus -- and basically everything in some duality. Because it's pure duplicity. Because if we were to fight the virus honestly, we would primarily be having a dialogue with those with whom you need it. Primary dialogue, of course, is with schoolchildren. Schoolchildren who are directly, in fact, in real life each day must fight this virus and implement your counter-measures, which you do not even take time to explain to them to adopt appropriate protocols. Now you're here even today explaining how this is your chance to adjust the learning process. Yeah, I really hope this year, year and a half won't be a model for adjusting the learning process. Because what you've been doing this year and a half, it really doesn't look like anything, but at least to some new model of schooling. It's like chaos. You guys, I don't know, look in the mirror. [[…]] See Simono Kustec in 2014 and see it in 2021. And look what a slaughterhouse down that moral-ethic path she's made. Legally you, Madam Minister, are absolutely responsible. I already told you today, in my opening remarks, I quoted your former President Cerar as saying what interpretation is – the exercise of legal, moral, political or other forms of responsibility. You are responsible for me in all three forms. Morally absolute, because you've left behind all the stakeholders we should be defending. Children in the first place, children with special needs. That is not what I am saying to you, Madam Minister, you have legally left them at risk, as the Constitutional Court has told you in a number of decisions. In one year you have at least four decisions of the Constitutional Court. Four decisions of the Constitutional Court, and here you are bragging about how you implemented the Constitutional Court's decisions on funding in education. So let's not talk about how badly this is implemented, but we won't talk about it now, because that's not the subject. You have implemented one option at will, in the meantime you have four new ones. And what do you do? Once again, you are discriminated against, and you go deeper into discrimination by determining that children who will not test themselves will learn from a distance. While the Constitutional Court has already decided that your decision setting out your distance education has not been established. Now you're going to essentially put children directly in an unequal position, you're going to eliminate certain children. It's not all right, Madam Secretary. You say everything on the ground is great now that this self-testing is applied. It's not true at all. You can only thank, deeply thank the principals, the schoolchildren who have shown an extraordinary amount of tolerance, dialogue, understanding and direct interpretation, talked and tried to make this process as traumatic for the children as possible. Because this is about kids, it's about kids. You underestimate how concerned we are about mental distress. That, Madam Secretary, you have nothing to be cynical about. As much cynicism as you did today in your opening address, I haven't heard it in a long time. Not for a long time. We're actually worried about mental distress. We're worried when the number of suicides rises by 30%. Of course we're worried. You should be, too. And no, you haven't applied the de facto in practice, you haven't left, you've only provided funds. Money does not yet buy mental health; it must also be implemented in practice. And don't be cynical when we express our concern. Do not be cynical when colleagues express their concern because you have failed to perform ventilation devices to which you have been for long and long months at least colleague Židan, I know he warns. And you here cynically, czech, the opposition is worried, and you are sincerely fighting the virus. You're being honest - we're what? And we have a fight for power, and that's it. This mantra is also ad acta, and this mantra is already really lame. We are talking about how we too receive a huge number of calls from parents, children. It didn't all go as well as you do. Here I read directly to you, quote: “Because of the pressures, manipulations, the threat of the deprivation of the right to normal education of our children, we have signed with a heavy heart a statement about the self-testing of children ” and so on, I will not read any further because it is better not to read any further. [[…]] And to understand each other, as my colleague Koprivc has already said today, we are not against self-testing, we are not against vaccination, but all these measures can be carried out in some normal, human, if you want, empathetic way. If the World Health Organization tells you that age group measures should be taken into account, then take into account age groups. One day you say that children with special needs will continue to test themselves at home, then the next day just before the apprentices, no, they will be in school, unless this is possible they will be home. You have an appeal from several sides, and I have also sent you a question of my own, in writing and orally, let at least the youngest allowing schooling from home. And you know what's very cynical? You go on TV and you say let's trust each other, let's be patient, let's get through this together. At the same time, you show absolute mistrust to your parents. And why do you think children won't be tested at home by the third grade? That means some lack of trust. [[adverts from benches]] Can you please, buddy? [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u207	Can I just have a moment? Comrade Franz Breznik, each has his own way of discussing and intrusive voice, so let's have reason and tolerance for every way and tone of voice and not report to a colleague that in any way, I don't know, a way that obviously doesn't suit you is debated. You will sometimes raise your voice in your debate, and no one will tell you anything. Let's let our colleague finish the discussion and not disturb her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u208	I find it difficult to be calm when we talk about particularly vulnerable groups in our society, about children and about everything that has been done in the past year. And when the Minister spoke today about misogynism, well, here you have now had a classic case of sexism. I'm totally calm. It's just that my debate is emotional. If your debate was a little emotional earlier, I didn't squabble, calm down, colleague Breznik. I really don't think that's right. But when we talk about such topics, you may allow me to be more emotional and definitely not loud. But the really classic way to treat a woman is, come on, calm down. Some of us have already received this, if you will, tone down. It's misogynism. Madam Minister, I expect you to take your stand for me as you did for yourself today when you say that this opposition has attacked a woman in politics today. We're all women in politics. What I am saying today is not an attack against you as a woman in politics, but an exercise of the Minister of Education's political responsibility. The fact is, of course, that this self-testing did not go due to your merit was implemented because those stakeholders with whom you did not want to talk, showed solidarity to society, made an effort and it began to be relatively peaceful. It's not exactly peaceful, it's not okay, it would have to be changed here. And I appeal to you once again that at least for the youngest, you simply introduce testing from home, or you can get more friendly tests, say on saliva, which will be nicer to children. It is very difficult to speak, of course, because again I listen to comments on the other side. Thank you. The fact is that this arrogant woman we are witnessing only shows that you are simply incapable of running this department, that you are legally responsible for your work, and this legal responsibility has been determined by the Constitutional Court. If the situation were reversed, if we were in a coalition, we would undoubtedly have to step down at the first decision of the Constitutional Court. I appeal to you as someone whose colleague said that you were specialized in human rights and democracy, if I'm not mistaken, in the FDV, so someone who specializes in human rights understands the most that, in the event of human rights violations identified by the highest court in this country, the first day that this is determined to be the first day that the person to whom this is determined is waived, of course, because he is legally, morally, ethically responsible for his actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u209	The replica has Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the opportunity of replica. I'm replicating my colleague Meiri Hot. I don't think we got along when you were talking about clinical psychologists. This wasn't about the extra money in that sense, but, uh, now we have the money, this was about the extra calls. For we do not have these specialties, and we have now corrected this by strengthening the frame in this place. Only possible in an additional explanation – one year before the covider I am telling you this or during the covider’s time, but one year was the waiting time for the clinical psychologist to pay the self-payer, not only for those going through the Department of Health Insurance. Here we have a problem. It's not about being able to create them miraculously. But as for earlier, when you warned me, I wasn't talking, I was following your debate. And not my name you highlighted, it seemed like I was, I wasn't, and I was very quiet and I listened to you, so I could replicate. [[…]] So I was quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Franz Breznik, followed by Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Dear Professor Dr. Simona Kustec, Minister of Education of the Republic of Slovenia, distinguished colleague and colleague! In front of us, we have a historic grotesque misinterpretation against one of the most successful education and education ministers or school system in the Republic of Slovenia, which today proves exceptional figures. During the period when Slovenia is also chairing the European Union, crucified between Brussels, crucified during the resolution of the covid crisis, crucified in the operation and correction of many laws or legal novels in the field of education and education, the person who has proved and shown that what you are telling me is a little earlier, colleague Meira Hot, that women can suffer a lot, also, I could say, we call it in Styria, a very loud speech or drjet, I would say in Styria, here in Parliament. And you're the worst women against women, men can't do that much, just like that. I believe that you and Prof. Slavinec, a physicist, have a remarkable cabinet, an extraordinary expert, also that you came to the SD's nest, into a nest where there were no major projects, but only studies, as it was in culture, as it was in the other ministries. Big studies, lost large millions and nothing in the field. All the time I've been listening to this interpretation, I could say, one intellectual thrust of Slovenian reality, which always persists. On the one hand, each word “we are for the public”, “we support public education”. You really support him, but you physically support him, just as a person supports someone. But she can support the minister, along with the government, along with her colleagues, she has prepared projects, I could say, scattered from Prekmur, Goričko, to Kočev, to Gorenjska and so on, throughout Slovenia, and has proved that all children are really for her, for this government is equal in Slovenia. We all would, and we want them to have equal opportunities for their educational process. We prove that, and these are real numbers that you won't escape from. The worst part is when I listen to this intellectual sadness when you compare some partial private education with some statements, some labels, like it's something bad. Most young people then flee abroad to private schools that represent some higher quality. It's actually proven. Once again, we don't have to go any further. Here you mentioned a respected academic, a regular professor, Dr. Toplak, who is a grey eminent in this field, one of the most successful, including dean, rectors of the University of Maribor, a man who has set up an important institution, Alma Mater, a man who has broken the ice in many processes of education and education with new approaches and with the best scientific research conferences of artificial intelligence in the 21st century. Look at this, come to Maribor and take a look at this. Then you throw the distinguished professor Dr. Rončevič back in with special labels, and again it's an exceptional individual with an outstanding academic career. Then of course Dr. Jambrek as always, professor, co-author of the Constitution, one of the great Slovenian, top lawyers, of course for many years also educated abroad. The interesting thing is when you talk about his university or college, ten of the most important or most penetrating lawyers who were elected this week, three lecturers, three professors coming directly from the most influential lawyers and right from the European Faculty of Law. Usually, even at the time of Mary Teresa, when my colleague Trček first elected me, Maria Teresa, after the school reform of 1774, noted that even Catholic education was then somewhat behind the Protestant education, and she brought the entire system of the then Habsburg monarchy, counselors who advised how to deal with all the textbooks, instructions to the then principal, even after that school reform, to carry out all the things I had talked about many times. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, there is one narrowness in your debates, the closure of some Slovenia, a typical monopoly that has begun to disintegrate. But he started to fall apart because we and the minister with an impressive resume, see where this person was, I didn't know until now, I looked at it earlier, from Brazil, Constance, I don't know Duisburg, Germany, you taught, you experienced various collisions, spiritual collisions, different approaches in the educational system, along with some colleagues who came to Castle or to Trieste, explaining how Slovenian school system should look. I can say you've maintained very good nerves today. The interesting thing is that we should be present, which means that we should physically go to each school and to each principal literally show what he should do. Then I wonder why we have directors. Isn't the principal the one who organizes some systems? Then you're told that you should know in advance what an epidemic is going to happen. The whole world doesn't know, no scientist knows, but you should know what's going on on September 1st for two months or a month before the holidays. It's not like that. That's why you've been waiting for the last week to figure out which way we're going. Just one case, my niece is studying, was adopted after 18 years, the third Slovenian to go to Harvard University. 99% of the graft is at this point, right now my brother's been writing to me from Boston, 99% interception, three times a week students are being tested. You know why they're holding the team? Because they prove they believe in science and vice versa. Because they'll be science. Because they'll be science. They don't make them functionally illiterate, what you'd do. This is a typical SD approach to the school system, because their friends and friends always had to listen to the policy dictatorship, what they would do and what they would not do. And that's the so-called profession. This is this profession, the profession, which, after leaving Slovenia, will immediately go to private universities abroad because they will not succeed in this serious competition. And that's the problem, dear fellows. If we just look at these investments, I thank you. He just called me a mag. Janez Kramberger, for funding, at last, primary school or the renovation of our elementary school in Lenart amounting to a million 800. We thank you for the projects in Benedict, Sveti Trojica, Sveti Ana and Sveta Juri in Slovenian Gorica totalling 4.5 million. Believe me, I have in my email, and I believe that my colleagues, including in SMS, many greetings from Slovenian mayors, mayors who are extremely grateful to you for all the projects you have carried out, that you are a person of solid trust and believe in both Slovenian public education and some conflict of spirits along with private education, which is essential for us to get jobs for the 21st century, as I say many times that we will be able to fight in the 4th Industrial Revolution with global competition, respected colleagues and colleagues. And that's the point of all of this. And that's the essence of the work of Professor Simone Kustec Lipicer. A typical liberal who, after leaving politics, can continue to explore and determine what the Slovenian Left means, that it has nothing to do with German or Austrian social Democrats, that it is some alien policy that is far from social democracy. More socio-democratic government than the current government in Slovenia, which has a hearing for many people I have never met. And I'm done. My colleague Meira Hot spoke emotionally. Now I'm gonna say it emotionally. I would need feelings, Meira Hot, like your colleagues took free lunches for your children when your colleagues, Meira Hot, took the free funding of another or third child in kindergartens under your governments, and when your colleagues took the supplements — just the minister from your party — to blind and visually impaired children, where they left only one allowance for their parents and then those parents went into special legal requirements, lost and stayed with some house and apartment. We've solved that, too, and we'll solve the problems. And the covid crisis flooded the incompetence of left policy, flooded that left policy must be in opposition for at least ten years, so that Slovenia can make a serious breakthrough in European and global space and become a competitive country to which we will all be proud. Simona Kustec Lipicer, you positively surprised me. Congratulations again! And as I told the Slovenian media today, for me and for the majority, you could say, Mary Teresa of the 21st century, about investment in Slovenian schools, in Slovenian kindergartens, in Slovenian sports. For this I personally, on my behalf and also on behalf of Slovenian Gorica and many mayors thank you for your contribution. You are a brave woman and bravely forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The next one has the floor, Mr Robert Pavšič. Get ready, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u214	Thank you, Madam President. For the introduction, it is very uncreditable to listen to references to the profession as soon as 18 months of this policy is strongly pushed into the corner and it does not hear them. Not only in the school area, but in all the areas of expertise that could help to manage the situation more effectively. And when we talk about all these millions, you know, education doesn't make walls. It's not just the walls that make up the school system. The school system and education are more or less people, and if people call, they appeal on more specific instructions, and they do not get these instructions, fear follows. Today we have heard many things from the beginning, a few hours ago, about how our colleagues feel about the suffering. In fact, such pathetics have become a constant in this national assembly, and even more so are some of the nebulos we have heard today, and we will certainly be even more intense. Today’s situation is simply a result of trust. And who is responsible for the erosion of this trust? Yeah, it's a very current policy. It's reflected everywhere. All systems reflect this erosion, a catastrophic erosion of trust. People don't believe in politics anymore, for the first time, we've all wasted ourselves, in the profession that you pushed to the edge, they don't trust each other anymore. And I hope that this will not happen, that in the end people will lose confidence in humanity. Why did this happen? We have been monitoring for the past 18 months – for criminal actions by this government, such as the purchase of protective and medical equipment. Don't think we've forgotten that. What happened was actually a crime. The educators that we overpaid and allowed someone to make a fantastic profit are now in the warehouses because they are useless. We have bought millions of euro protection masks with rubbers, which we must not use anymore with the new decrees because they are not surgical masks, but the objective justifies the means. Anything to make real friends earn more than the euro. We're not just talking about the police. Remember Darsa again, Fursa, Sursa, now energy. Let us remember – as some colleagues have already told you, and you do not want to hear – the illegal were the decisions, the unconstitutional were the decisions, and you still claim that everything was in the best order. And once again, the goal justifies the means, as if we were really living on one of the less developed continents, so I wouldn't offend anyone. And indeed, yes, this epidemic has exposed many things that are wrong in this country, but it has especially exposed the criminal intentions of this ruling policy, the reigning clicks that you so tirelessly and so sincerely support. We heard there's no child mask. And when we ask the Prime Minister what does he say? There's plenty on the market, and we won't give them to our warehouses. And then you really take care of people?Oh, my God! But who thinks these masks someone has to buy for the kids are free? They're not free. And that's why they're in the warehouses -- watch out -- because there's not an epidemic out there. So I can say very sovereignly and explicitly that you really don't understand why it's come to all this, why people gather at least twice a week in front of Parliament, why people gather before schools, why some people break a movie, and why bikes go around. Because you've wasted your trust. And of course, it will always be the opposition, the media, the protestors, the cyclists, now they are also principals, the schoolchildren, the parents. It's everyone's fault, not you, but at least it's the secretary's fault. Because if you came in today and said, "Yes, we really had last year's school year closed for too long because we didn't have all the data and all the knowledge we have now, and now it's going to be different; you'd say, okay. But no, now you need to look for who's more right, or the proponent who gives you the data from the World Health Organisation, or the minister who got the data from another website. But it doesn't matter to you whether it's two, three weeks apart; it's important that schools have been closed for almost a year. That's important, and you can't deny it. [[advertising from the hall]] If it's 10 weeks less than one year, it's almost one year, mate. Almost a year if 10 weeks is less than one year. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, but your fees are slightly higher than 20%. Not that we have not proposed alternative solutions in the opposition. We have suggested that at least a combined school system should be given so that some children can be at home and others at school are changing. No, no, no. We proposed ventilation — her, and everyone jumped into the luft, but here the lefties will now be serving everyone. So let's get the windows open. We suggested that you give more detailed instructions to users, directors, because they wanted them, they called for this. No, we'll do it our way. And then there's the second interpolation. Yes, but now we have to answer the questions and there are no questions – the answers. The questions are, questions are getting more and more than answers, no matter what those who sit in government chairs say. But we have a lot of lawyers sitting in government chairs. Lawyers, who also call historical persons, Mary Teresa, on the agenda — we have heard today. It would be funny if it wasn't so sad at the same time. If you want to smile a little, we have also seen on Facebook what people think about such statements: “Maria Teresa introduced compulsory education and potatoes into Slovenia. And the potatoes got really good." That would be funny if it wasn't very sad at the same time. And by yours, you can buy everything with money. And then there comes the Minister, who also teaches at the FDV, says journalism, I don't know, so I heard in the debate today, and in one of the graphs shows two numbers. In 2019, 274 million were spent on mental health and 300 million in 2021. So the difference in this is in a few ten million, there's more money, but the graph is shown so very manipulative that it's embarrassed by every journalist. The first figure showed the share, and the second was that more than 100 % of the money was invested in it. Well, that's a very manipulative graph. I hope the cameraman shows. Look. And look at the numbers - nominal. For more than 100 %, the difference in this graph is at first sight, yes. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah, it's too long, yeah. It's too long. And it's more of a long one. Not only are we able to pay for this money, although we believed it or not in 2019, we paid one loan, which Mary Theresa had. In 2019 we paid the loan paid by Austro-Hungarian and we inherited it. When are we gonna pay off these financial loans?Oh, my God! They won't be us, they'll be someone else. Who will pay the price of complete incompetence, manipulativeness? Nobody knows that. It could end today by pressing the “plus” button, but we know it will not go so easy. We will fight to the end because the glue in these seats is very strong.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbich, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Please give Mr Pavšić a reminder because he lied, he deceived the Slovenian public. He's talking about a criminal association, he's pointing out to my colleague that they're taking commissions over 20% and so on. This is unacceptable for a Member to try to manipulate the public in this way. He's not the one to decide. That's for the court to decide. And if the court finds someone guilty, it's his fault. Mr Pavšič allowed himself to burden his colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly in such a flat-rate manner. This is irresponsible and unacceptable. Please give him a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u217	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Let me commend you for actually making a procedural proposal, one of the few, because you have suggested that I give a reminder. However, let me disappoint you. I will not give you a warning because I will not get involved in a particular debate, nor do I understand the debate of my colleague Pavšić in the way you do, but it is your legitimate right to have such an opinion on his debate. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Obviously, our discussions, too, were not understood by our colleague Pavšič, because he obviously came to the conclusion that we were stuck on chairs. I have to say to myself that I am really in this National Assembly a second term, that I have, I think, received as many votes as about three of your kind together, but I am not glued to this chair. This trust was given to me by the electorate and the electorate, if they're still going to be in my future, I'll be happy if I don't, I won't be in this chair. But let's wait until the election and see who's in which chair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u220	Actually, I have two procedural proposals. For the first time, please call my colleague Bah Žibert to tell me where I misunderstood her in her debate, because I haven't even touched her debate or mentioned it. And secondly, allow me a replica of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u221	Yes, with regard to the first procedural proposal, I think it makes no sense for us to ask our colleague, because she obviously understood that she was not understood in her discussion. And since we've been trying all day to explain what a replica is and what it isn't, I'm not going to say it again. But with regard to your second procedural proposal, I'll allow you a replica of the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u222	Thank you. But here I'm actually going to use the replica business now, because my colleague certainly didn't understand me when I was talking about losing confidence. I was talking about losing confidence in this policy, collectively, of course on the coalition side, when within 18 months professionally constantly pushes aside. This isn't about voter confidence, even though you speak so badly about our voters. They're probably better than you. And they're equivalent, I tell you. All voters are equal – whether they voted for you, for me or for anyone else. They're equivalent to me, and I do the same for everyone. But you screwed up your confidence by pressing your hands into a corner and not wanting to listen to them on purpose just so that you could implement your agenda. Thank you, President, for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Another procedural proposal. Mrs. Monica Gregorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u224	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to remind you of the business provision regarding the possibility of allowing a relic to the replica. There is indeed this possibility in Article 70, but it is not intended for ordinary replication, but only in the case where the person who has felt addressed wishes to clarify matters, not because he has not been properly understood, but because irregularities, inaccuracies; only to clarify matters and clarify the truth were stated in the implementation of the predecessor. I ask you to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure consistently.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u225	Yes, colleague Monica Gregorčič, let me fix you. You've misinterpreted a provision that speaks of the possibility of replicating a replica, and I'm just going to read you an article so that you can understand it in the future. This is how he says: “The replica is not allowed unless the President considers that the references in the replica were incorrect.” And I made that assessment, and I estimated that the lines in the replica were not accurate, and I gave a replica to the replica. It's perfectly legitimate, as my colleague Tanka decided a few hours ago when he led and allowed the replica into the replica because he just assessed it that way. Let us, however, carefully read the business regulations so that there will be no misunderstandings or misunderstandings as you have just stated. Procedurally, once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yes, you've read it correctly, and you've confirmed exactly what I'm saying. What was wrong with the implementation of my colleague, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert? For she bonded, and told the common knowledge, and the clear things, concerning emancipation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u227	Look, colleague Gregorčič, I made an assessment that her allegations in connection with the debate of colleague Pavšič were not correct, so I allowed him a replica. It is not a matter of substantive assessment, I believe we agree on this, but it is a matter of procedural assessment, because the procedural proposal is however procedural in nature. The replica is allowed when I make a procedural assessment that the replica has been abused Let's not pass these balls and let's continue the discussion. Not yet. Procedural proposal, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u228	Chairman, thank you very much. I don't know now, but I have to make a procedural proposal and I'll make it. I think Mr. Pavšič deserves a reminder. Why? First, it was found that I was not talking about the replica or that my replica was unjustifiable. But apparently it was a replica, because he was allowed a replica of the replica. So my replica was justified. And secondly, the president, he used it so much that he was still lying about my statement. I told you about the number of voters and voters. And yes, they're all equal. But the numbers are different.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u229	Colleague Anja Bah Žibert, reminding my colleague Pavšić, I will not say, because if every time someone in the replica replicates his position and explains, they get into this, everyone in this room would probably receive warnings, once on the coalition side, once from the opposition. Your procedural proposal, in my opinion, is not in place and is completely unrelated, if I may put it this way. But your replica wasn't exactly the letter of the rules of procedure. And that's why I gave him the replica because that's what the rules of procedure allow. Gradually, Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I would like to remind you to remind my colleague Bah Žibert that we have been here all day since 10 a.m. on very serious matters and that she should stop squeezing afne or afnati gunns, because it doesn't matter who; because what she's doing here lately reminds us of a different institution than the National Assembly. I would still like to read her the e-mail that I just got because we're talking about serious things here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u231	Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik, I'll be right here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u232	All right, I'll do it. Okay, thanks. In short, I respectfully ask you to warn your colleague to start behaving properly in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u233	Unfortunately, I must say that your procedural proposal has not been about the use of the Rules of Procedure, and you have in fact misused the procedural proposal, and I have also stopped you in my implementation. I propose that there is no longer much time for discussion to stop such work and to conclude the debate as soon as possible or in the right spirit. That's why I'm giving you my word, mag. Diane Jedhan. He's being prepared by Mrs. Carmen Cosmus Ferrian. Here you go, Mr. Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u234	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! And I promise not to start the speech – I have a procedural proposal; I want to make this debate a little more difficult here. I’m just afraid of ever — of course not from our side — any procedural suggestion that we no longer have the right to speak on this side. It's a joke. You don't have to replicate that for me. Look, 80% of Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens and citizens, and I think that probably more than most, at least I hope, of this national assembly is just counting down the days. Today is number 155, tomorrow it will be 154. The beauty of these numbers is that they'll roll faster than they think on the right. Indeed, very soon it will happen that we will find out that we are in January, and even before we turn around three times around our axis, we will find that it is March and the time for this Parliament to dissolve. This will be something very beautiful for the state of Slovenia, something very useful for the state of Slovenia. Is the minister we're talking about today the most harmful in this government? Of course not. What she sees today is not happening. If everyone in this government were so unworkable, Slovenia would be in much better shape than it is now. I guess we all know that. Because we are afraid of each next move, we see how many proper measures we will have to take to correct the mistakes. So because we don't really see her, the former secretary of state, who she so bravely left behind, didn't defend him. That's what my colleague Franjo said today. We see more of the Secretary of State from Prekmur, who at least fights for the Prekmur Academy of Science and Arts than all the MPs of Pomur. And there's someone more visible than the current minister. And, of course, all the statements signed by us, the opposition Members and Members, are kept in interpellation. But I would like you today, at least those, probably some of you remember, many of you on the right also told me – Dejan, what happened to you yesterday, that you were so sad about this aerosol and, on the other hand, you were so impatient when we laughed at you. [[…]] And I'll tell you quite simply, because you were laughing at me the same year ago when I was talking about vaccination. The same people were laughing at me. That's why I'm going to be here today because I have this opportunity because the Minister has spoken more than the Minister of Health, not the Minister of Education, and I'm going to take advantage of it, and I'm going to say some things. However, I am pleased that today the government, at least as the competent minister has said, has found it necessary to establish in Slovenia to increase confidence in vaccination, a payment scheme for the worst side effects of vaccination carried by the state. I've suggested this at least twice, okay, with the delay, but it's a useful measure. I am also pleased that this extraordinary right policy has finally come to realize that people's violence – make an urgent use of the vouchers by the end of this year – is greatly promoting the spread of the SARS-COV-2 virus in Slovenia. Although it would have been much better if you had known this three, four months ago, I tell you that the situation in Slovenia would have been significantly better. But now she's met. Today, when we spoke in the parliamentary group, I have expressed to my boss Matjaž Han, whom I highly appreciate, the hope that on the right hand side you will look at at at least the 34 measures I have taken for you, even though there have been a significant number of them. These 34 suggestions that you will summarize any more, because then the situation will actually be better. That's what I really want, and that's why I'm going to start reading some things, and before that, I would like to say, those of you who said today that children are the biggest victims of government errors in the cove crisis, in fact, you're wrong. You're wrong. The biggest casualties of government errors in the covid crisis were the elderly you imprisoned in homes for older citizens. Professor Dusan Keber wrote an article on October 30, 2021 to remember those we forgot about. Professionally, analytically, as distinguished professors know, he wrote how big a mistake it was that you imprisoned the elderly, but for this she was not a competent minister; it was the former Minister of Health of Desus who would never escape that responsibility. We weren't the only country that did this, but we were the worst of the worst. The professor estimates that there were at least a thousand human lives here. I tell you, not just before history, but how else someone else will have to answer here. So the kids weren't the biggest victims. The elderly, imprisoned in homes for the elderly who were stuck there, were the people who were left behind the most. And now we're gonna start like this. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 6. 2020. I don't go back to half my history. I don't go back to Quarantine. I'm only dating in the sixth month of last year. Emissary initiative, I want to read it to you, and please listen to me. I am giving the parliamentary initiative, the Social Democrat, the Group of Social Democrats, when you laughed on the right, listen, please listen nicely before you talk about vaccination, "I am taking the initiative to update and systematically publish relevant professional research and findings in the field of vaccination in order to inform the public more about the safety and effectiveness of vaccination. I further propose," Social Democrat, the Social Democrats' Group, "to take an active approach to improving dialogue between civil society, professional institutions and its representatives, with a view to raising confidence and also a positive attitude towards vaccination, which could contribute to increasing the share of vaccinated persons in Slovenia." Six months ago. Why did I do that? Because I received information in my hands about how weak the confidence in vaccination in Slovenia is. At that time, respected and respected, it was the right time. But what did I experience? A laugh like yesterday when I was talking about aerosols in closed spaces. Laughing was the answer. It's about time. But it wasn't the only initiative in this direction. The Minister talked about health, perhaps I can talk about it too, or I cannot, Madam Member, I am opposition, because I am waiting for you to preach to me at any time. I want to say that we are the question of how important vaccination is, because everyone who knows at least a little about medicine and science, we knew that the vaccine would be soon; and we are democratic enough to believe that there will never be mandatory vaccination, but we must have a dialogue with people. On the sixth month of last year, we were talking about this as the opposition. Colleagues and colleagues, do you remember the debates on the committees we had? And what did we experience? The opposition, we have opened up this subject because we were aware of what will happen. But it did not leave me alone, and I immediately asked a written question: What will you do, even 18. 6. to increase public awareness of the safety and efficacy of vaccination and to make vaccine safety studies available? Why? Because it's one of the important arguments of anti-vaxers – you're hiding studies. In fact, the legal order is made this way. And I have given the initiative to publish the studies so that they can be clearly seen – it is a risk, and what brings the vaccine is much greater. And by hiding the data, there's nowhere to go. But it didn't leave me alone because I was getting negative answers, and then I re-appointed the Prime Minister's initiative. 27. 10. if you're making notes. That's why this material is also in the Udis of the National Assembly, by the way. I took a summary because they're constantly manifesting themselves – you didn't propose anything. And only the most urgent measures, 34 of them in this summary are written to understand – yes, the opposition, the Social Democrats, we really wanted to take action properly. 27. 10. Parliamentary initiative: "That is why, Mr Minister, I am giving you the initiative of sending an ambitious overhaul and updating of the plan of measures and activities to increase the share of vaccinated people in the country." In October last year, when none of you spoke about it, because as a naturalist, I knew because as an opposition, we knew how important vaccination was. A little later, I gave an initiative to increase laboratory diagnostics, once again a negative response. Then, last year, listen to the following: I am giving you a parliamentary initiative to reshape the advisory group. Invite the most famous and recognized Slovenian epidemiologists and give them the authority and role they must have at the time of the epidemic. Last year, a lot of months ago. And after seeing what the answer was, simply a question sent, but this is a year ago: “What will you do to make it no longer feel among the citizens, that as a government you constantly change decisions on measures and restrictions without clearly presented epidemiological reasons and also the effects of individual measures? How will you ensure that those representatives of the authorities who propose or adopt certain measures or restrictions will be truly exemplary in their conduct?" Why is this important, honourable Members and Members? The most important example is those who take action. Not you, not us, we don't take action in Parliament, at least mostly not; the operational authority, this is the government, is taking action. It really was a call from the heart. Government, be a positive example. What's been going on, and you know it. And then I asked about tests that didn't match, and the government didn't want to ask. And then, interestingly enough, I got an interesting answer. You might even be interested. I want to tell that to a minister who isn't, so to everyone else. The government has answered me in an unusual way – but if you already know what needs to be done, suggest specific names. I don't know if they thought I'd be scared or something. I took the opportunity to give the Government an initiative on 4 February because the Government wanted to. Look what she said to me later. I am giving you the initiative to invite further experts into your group: prim. Dr. Alenko Kraigher. I also wrote below that I did not ask any of these questions if I could mention it, so I hope that none of these people ever insulted me later. Once again, Professor Dr. Majo Sočan and Prof. Dr. Ivan Eržen, say Dr. Tjašo Johar Čretnik and so on. Names that are internationally known have a reputation, but they have one error – they have a spine and not a grass plant in the background, they do not bend when the wind from the political hall blows. And because they were so composed, they were pushed away. At the same time, I wrote my proposal on what an effective advisory group should look like: In the advisory group, epidemiologists must represent the majority of the members, and experts in microbiology, infectology, paediatrics, family medicine and mental health are included. The revised Advisory Group should assess the effectiveness of the measures so far. And then underlined, strengthened by the letter: Opinions and suggestions of the Advisory Group must be made available to the public at all times. Of course, the government didn't want to do that, so I asked her again via the parliamentary question: Why doesn't the new consultative group lead an epidemiology expert? Why don't epidemiologists in the new consultative group have a majority? March 2nd this year. Now listen, because it is now connected with this minister, who is not at the moment, because she needed to know, because the government has also co-decisiond on this, the question sent on 15 March, I would like you to pay attention to the date: What do you think the data on the side and side effects of individual vaccines used in Slovenia against covid-19 are available to you? What are your arguments – now listen – that Slovenia has not followed the EU countries – Germany, Denmark and many others – in which governments or competent ministers temporarily stopped the vaccination with AstraZeneca? Do you know what the Slovenian government has done? In serious countries, young people, especially young women, have been protected with serious warnings. But what did the Slovenian government do? She directed young graduates to the vector vaccine AstraZeneca, when it had been known for a month and it had been clear warnings. That's what I blame the minister. There has been no hearing from the competent ministry – we will protect the people for whom we are responsible. So on April 21st, I asked the Government how was the adoption of such a decision on the vaccination of graduates? Who decided it was AstraZeneca? How, though, since you have seen that in some countries where expertise is difficult to deny — Germany, France, Denmark — they do not allow the vaccination of younger populations, especially women, because of the precautionary principle. But interesting – in Slovenia the Slovenian government directs seniors and graduates to AstraZeneco and its diplomats to Pfizer. Why would anyone tell you where the profession is? Then – I don't know if you remember – last November it became definitively clear, even though it had been known since the sixth month of last year, that was then the World Health Organization's revised instructions – you are afraid of closed spaces. Since June of last year. Why was last November so important? At that time, the German professional association, which is European, also our member from the Institute of Joseph Stefan, gave a warning: You are wrong, the most dangerous aerosols in closed spaces. According to available data to 7,000 infections, most of them are internal, only one external. They were quick to adapt to this. In Slovenia we called on the Health Committee, the opposition. We had a laugh, we had an obvious desire to invest, and no one except one symbolic conclusion was adopted. What did we suggest? The action plan for preventive measures and the proposal to put, please, in the advisory group of engineers who understands air movement, update the standards for ventilation of public residential buildings and of course school buildings, activate the competent services to check schools. Do everything you can to protect them. We talked about masks 2 on this committee in this room. You voted against everything. The government was sitting there. No, we won't, we won't; but at this time you can say so and so. You threw billions away, and you couldn't spend $10 million for the kids. Why am I doing this? Because a coalition MP tells me so. I don't know if that's okay, but that's how it works. If one percent of the money you spent on the criminal crown of the allowances of the public servants were allocated to the first measure that they had already carried out in Austria, Germany, America, England, Canada and so on, 1% of the money you spent on the criminal covid supplements would then be 4 times safer. Everyone knew in Europe that this was a temporary measure because the best quickly could not be done, but they did. You're nothing. One percent of the money for covid supplements. Why am I telling you this emotionally? Because the control of the epidemic is based on multiple foundations. I'm a proponent of vaccination myself. I always say that. Professional arguments, that's what I'm talking about. And proveablely, the Social Democrats' Group, the opposition since the sixth month of last year, when this has not yet been widely known, please, almost on your knees, strengthen credible communication on the importance of vaccination. And you push forward defender Kacin, completely unworthy. Then you're surprised people are getting away from vaccination. Look who they gave for communication in Austria, Germany, Portugal, Spain. Vaccination, indoor control measures, zero. The measures we gave to test, zero. When we ask – let us stretch the vouchers that at the time of the epidemic, people will not be squeezed into crowded hotels, zero. Why am I saying this emotionally? Because the minister talked most about it when she talked about the interpretation. But I'm gonna end up like this, but I can still talk about it, I can talk about it for hours and hours if you want, I just don't have enough time, 11 minutes is just available. Do you know what the problem is? Everyone's been fighting for their own. One minister fought to buy toys, cannons, rockets, some machines he showed up to buy planes and planes, and it was approved. The other had some other toys, and it was approved. This minister who says I'm gonna fight for the kids, and she's nowhere to be found. And that is the reason why we all today are squeezing symbolically, for in fact the government is leaving in such a way. The few days that the elections will be here will be quick, but to symbolically say that more than weapons and that we will never agree to the doctrine – yes, yes, we have brought the epidemic, yes, yes, we have the dead and we have the economic growth. Listen to how terrible it is when you say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The word is Carmen Cosmus Ferrian.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone! I'll be a little shorter, and unlike the three predecessors, I'll try to be less emotional. In listening to these discussions, I have come to the conclusion that the Minister is guilty. The blame is an incredible success at the spring final, 97% success, of which 15 were students with the highest number of points – 34, with only 8 students with 34 points in the second minister two years earlier. It's the minister's fault that the class was going on smoothly. I mean, it's adapted, but it's still intact. It's also the minister's fault that she cares. She cares about the kids, the parents, and the employees. When I went to school, I'm afraid, at the time it was almost almost, I could say, an eternal minister I didn't feel he cared about. Simoni Kustec cares. But her biggest sin is to take care of 118 million investments. For almost 10 years it has not been invested in kindergartens and schools, and then Dr Simon Kustec arrives and provides investments of EUR 118 million throughout the country. Madam Minister, more such ministers. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Get ready, Janez Moškrič, and then Sonibo the Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u238	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. If you've all listened carefully to the answer, that initial response of the Minister to the interpretation, the person immediately noticed that the Minister did not really understand that she was a minister, in fact she did not understand her role, and in fact all the things she was talking about or discussing, she was discussing at a personal level and not at a ministerial level, what she was doing, what her job was, what her job was, what her function was. And we already have our first problem here, or I'm going to say, what a great disciplinarian. So, Minister Regrettably, even in these times, he doesn't understand the essence of the content and the work that he should be doing. Here's the thing. I don't know how much you know about these stories that happened at the Ministry. Madam, when she began her post as Minister of Education, she brought a man into her office, an expert who knew things she trusted him; but only until Mr President of the Government realized that he was resisting him. And Madam Minister, at that time, she sacrificed this expert without question only to please the President of the Government and that she could in fact remain in her ministerial position. And in this case, a person can find out that a person is not really prepared to protect his experts and is not prepared to protect his profession. And when we talk about the victims, and even earlier, when Mr. Members of the Jews spoke, yes, in fact, there are two groups that are really the biggest victims of this coved crisis, and these are the elderly and, of course, children or students, students, primary schoolchildren and so on. And even before she answered her interpolation, she actually talked about herself all the time. In fact, she did not talk about the problems or questions that we asked or asked her for answers, but she kept talking about herself. She never mentioned, for example, that she would say directly that children or students, students, were one of the greatest victims of this coved crisis. And what's more problematic is that I'm going to read the matter, the quote, and I'm going to quote directly what Mrs. Minister Simona Kustec said earlier. I quote: "I reject all evidence of interpretation also on the basis of the fact that the criticisms of my part of the left opposition are based on mechanisms to silence a woman and not take her seriously and humiliate her with insults." And as soon as the lady has said that, I will read again a quote from one of the Twitter users who wrote: “The woman in the position she pretends to be a victim is only because she is a woman, very not okay, for all those who are victims.” That's what the lady said on Twitter. And when the lady speaks about the fact that the left opposition wants to silence her, let's just clear some things up. The one who wanted to silence her and also silenced her was the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. That's a fact. He also banned these public performances, or via Ukom, through Mr Urbania, in fact for a while, we did not really know whether we still had the Minister of Education. And those calls where the Minister is, where she's hiding and these stories were actually very scary, because what the Minister should do and apply is basically, in the first place, dialogue between her and the school children, among the students, among the students. On this basis, she should show her part, or also her uprightness, the function, to protect them, because she is the one who should protect them; and unfortunately they are not. Remember this story in Maribor with this initiative, which only wanted one thing – back to school for knowledge. And in fact, at that time, the minister was very, unfortunately arrogantly reluctant to act like adults and take responsibility. If I were to return the ball now, I would say - indeed, Mrs Minister should also act like an adult and resign. Today, now. If the Minister responsible for the education sector is not prepared to protect those for whom she is responsible, then she should step down because it is also her duty to be responsible and also to protect these students, students and employees. Then another story, which is constantly happening, is her not having a dialogue with her parents or a dialogue that is actually taking place on almost some unconscious cosmic lines. I'll tell you why. Whenever it comes to inviting her to a dialogue, unfortunately, again, she reacts very arrogantly or quite often in such a way that you feel that she does not really understand or understand things. Because again, who's behind her at that time is the Prime Minister of the Government. Because we know how the President of the Government works with us, he's basically everything, he covers all the ministries, he's the main alpha and omega, the mode of operation of everything; and so it is. And those of us who have information from the ministries, now I've only expressed myself mildly what he is. In fact, he actually decides purely on all matters that take place in all ministries, and in particular at the Ministry of Education. And once again, the people who were employed in the Ministry, in the Cabinet of Ministers, were not protected, were not received to protect them as experts as well, and in fact sacrificed them to please the one and only one she actually has for the victim, and this is the President of the Government. Unfortunately, it is obvious that Mrs Kustec either refuses to understand or understand again, and has in fact accepted it, or is simply insisting on the role of the victim. And if we go a little bit of psychoanalytical psychology, actually when the victim becomes a victim and he doesn't realize that he's a victim, he takes a lot of other unwitting and subconsciously himself or herself as a victim. And unfortunately again, the real victims in this case are children, they're teenagers. The issues were clear, now to excuse that the virus or this virus growth has gotten us unprepared, is actually, I'll be completely honest with you, unacceptable. We had time, there were opportunities, as far as I know, we also had good experts, at least we had experts at the ministries, but I'm afraid if the President of the Government continues to be this person, who is not only going to be without experts, we're actually almost out of state already. All those, and even Madam Minister, must be aware that she is one of the main ones, the ones that enables her, yes, in fact she is sacrificing professionally and effectively to children, the adolescents, that Mr President of the Government is happy, according to her own words, because everything must be according to him. And once again, she is in charge of the ministry as a minister to enable children, young people, school-bound people to know that they are insured, to also ensure that they have all the means of access to different knowledge. And in fact, as I understand it, it will really take time for each of the children and parents to fight to be able to train their child or also to enable him to receive decent and, above all, vocational education and, of course, public education, which is very important here. And here we are again at the final point of my debate. The fact is that Minister Simono Kustec is being held by a lobby that wants to privatise Slovenian education in power or position because who has not yet learned the story that with the President of the Government we have, he decides who will fly as minister and who will remain. And I'll tell you a story you may not know. In fact, Mr President, the Government has a serious problem with women. Mrs. Aleksandro Pivec has personally helped to put off. That's a fact. Now ye shall all say, yea, blah, blah, blah, blah; ask the messengers of Desus. Yeah, so, yeah, I know you're all going to be fighting heads now, that's a fact. And when the Minister plays here a terrible sacrifice or is trying to usurp this story, and I have read to you earlier this tweet, which is very well-behaved and also very confessional, which Mrs Minister should not allow herself or should not allow herself. Because I personally wish in the Slovenian space not only more women in politics, but in all the responsible positions in the country, let it be in the economy, public administration, anywhere. I myself will always represent this, and I am also a great advocate of the fact that Slovenia simply needs more women in leading positions in all spheres of the country. That's a fact. And then things like that, I can't listen to what the Minister said before. Once again, of course I will support the interpellation of Madam Minister, because I am also at one of the September meetings myself last year. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word. Get ready, Soniboy Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! We've been talking for hours. In the meantime, we have already found out when we listened to some of the things that we have actually come out of the subject, and the topic for my terms is the forced debate on the Ministry, the Minister of Education, Science and Sport in the Republic of Slovenia. For the second time in this term, it has been put before this assembly to defend its work, because, of course, the opposition has found out what the issues are during this government and during this virus those on which it can collect its political points. It is interesting how Members who do not have their own children, who consciously choose not to have them, defend the rights of children. While that is commendable, let me say for myself which children I have in the educational process, even in very different ages. And in the morning, when I heard another debater or one responsible for the interpretation, he was limping, limping, unlike the first one who was in favor of his residence title doctor – See the statements of his parents, see the statements of the principals. He forgot to say yet – See the statement of Comrade Struklja. What's this all about? The point is that one of the most topical days of the day, when we were more specific on Wednesday, 17, we started self-testing children in primary schools. You've built on this and you're building your own political base for the next election. It's sad. Why? Because we have heard a statement that I support, it was somehow said that – the voice minority should be silenced. I will not say that it is necessary to keep quiet, but only what is happening to us in Slovenia, that some loud individuals who deny the existence of a virus that does not allow the country to carry out its primary tasks, care for all citizens in this Republic that it cannot do so; this is what needs to be pointed out. I'm also a member of the parenting council. Our president in our primary school felt obliged, responsible, to send a survey two days earlier to all parents – How do you think this would work? When the decree has been in force for 15 days. You know, the answers were kind of different, and strictly according to that table for our elementary school, only 30% of the parents on the first ball were for testing in school. 30% would still be at home, I don't know, 30% even against. Because we have entered with public messages and with messages from our opposition to the unrest among the people. The decree that has been and when it has been clear to each director for more than half a year that this will happen, that if we have children in school, there will be self-testing at school in the example of other European countries. Therefore, it is unacceptable to say that the principals did not know. Three days after the conversation started, every principal for his school would have to make a plan. It was the principal's responsibility. And you want to take this responsibility to the secretary. What was the minister's job? During the first period of the most difficult decision – switch to distance education. How many projects, as well as e-technologies, were already made in the Republic of Slovenia before the date of the first school closure in the Republic of Slovenia, closed in terms of physical building, not in terms of educational process. If a minister wanted to try to introduce this in some peaceful period, what would be the pogrom. And now we had no choice. And what has come to light? That certain things were already going very well in the first wave. Of course, it was once again up to whether the teacher and the director were responsible. I myself monitored two schools and found that there is a great difference between individual teachers and individual principals. And that's what was the important decision of this minister. But how they did it isn't the minister's job. And much has been said, because I have too little time, much has been said of why this minister and this government have worked. The largest budget user in the Republic of Slovenia is education, science and sport. And we can be proud of that and this minister will be proud that the greatest share is not for the army when we always get under the belt, how for the army. No, the largest share is sports, education and science. And that's a fact, and these are numbers, and you can't go through them. Please, now we are in a really troubled period, when you see that there is no staff ready to greet all the people who are infected with covido-19, you are still grinding and grinding. The Slovenian river says, "If you can't help, at least be quiet." And that's what I've been putting on your heart for a few weeks now when this government is going to be. That's it. [[advertising from the hall]] No, there will be no early elections, this government will be a few more weeks, we can also give weeks in months, but the point is, if you can't help, if you don't want to help, be at least quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u242	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Moscrich, we will not be silent. You're not gonna get us into this. But I'd like to point out one thing to another. You keep pointing your finger at the opposition, and we just point out that the minister should work with her profession. I'm supposed to be working with schoolchildren. I'm supposed to be kind of a school-field lawyer, but it's not, it's the other way around. It's not a problem of action, it's a problem, the problem is that one night before the school field, the students didn't know what the Ministry's instructions were about testing. The problem is that the measures are not prepared by the profession, but the President of the Government is ordering the minister what she will have to order the next day. This is a key problem, rather than the system being reversed, in order for the profession to draw up some proposals for action and then adopt them. God does not allow these to be decrees or to go through the National Assembly, which would be the only constitutionally correct, and he would take this action by the National Assembly and be more lasting and more stable. This government changes measures from day to day, so that no one really knows who is drinking, who is paying, and what is valid today, and what was going on yesterday. And that's the key problem. Mr Moškrič, once again, we are not against the measures, but the government is acting on its own to achieve that no one believes in the government anymore and, consequently, the measures you are taking with you today tomorrow. When you realize this, that trust is a key issue, I think that the epidemic would also be significantly better managed. It will only be necessary to withdraw the various Kacins, the great leaders and so on and leave the profession to communicate about the measures and how we can contain the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Moskritch.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u244	Once again, once again, several months earlier, it was clear to every principal, every parent, that if there were schools, there would be self-testing sooner or later. That's a fact, and that's why it's an absolute lie. The decree was adopted more than 14 days before the test, then forced by those directors who hold with the opposition or who are not aware of science, for another 2, 3 days for further explanations and the basics are perfectly clear. Whoever lives responsible in this Republic of Slovenia has already performed self-testing, at least experimentally, to determine the situation in their family. You're deceiving with a constant word – bad communication. Millions of times you stress bad communication, and as a result, millions of times there is a general view that bad communication is. This is your primary lie, which you keep repeating.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u245	Thank you very much. My friend Koprivc has the floor as a candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u246	Mr Moškrič, not bad communication, catastrophic communication; and not only in the field of the school field, we are talking about this today, but in the whole government. And that's why the results of the epidemic are what they are. We are the winners of the number of deaths in Europe and almost not in the world. We are winners by number of patients in hospitals due to covid-19 and we are winners after one of the lowest vaccination rates. And that's just because the government communicates in a way that you do now. You, too, Mr Moškrič, have unwittingly insulted the school's profession again, and again you have insulted the principals that directors who do not believe in science and do not know what. Who are you to judge what the principal believes and what not? You're pathetic to the end. The minister, who is not in the hall again, does exactly the same thing. It is pitiful, underestimating to Members and works equally with trade unions that are left for you or I don't know what, with schoolchildren, with principals and so on. And that's why there's a rebellion. That's understandable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Soniboy Prince has the word. Get ready, Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u248	Thank you. President, I don't know if you would, because I think we've been repeating ourselves for a few hours now, so I'm not going to add anything essential to this debate. However, perhaps I would touch on an area that I think is one of the main reasons that we have all these accumulated problems that we have today in this country. And this is a lack of communication or inadequate communication. Until this current government arrived in this country, however, there was some social discourse on all important topics in the country. In some ways, the NGOs were also involved, not to say that more or less successful Economic and Social Council has worked, which is one of the achievements of a mature civilisation, a democratic society that has decided that all the problems will be solved by an agreement on important social and economic policy issues. With the performance by the government of Janez Janša and after bringing the first suit of those first category into his cabinet, for the first time, in the history of this country, we have made communication from the ministries, from the position of Prime Minister of the Government disastrously, disrespectfully. He calls his own departments, people in his departments lazy, prostitutes, I don't know what we've heard before, from the top. Never in 30 years of history has such a discourse occurred with these functions, the highest functions, of the most responsible. And you expect some understanding, some trust that's most important in the epidemic. With this epidemic, you have successfully used the last 20 months to rule, of course, what suits the President of the Government, past Parliament, to record your indebtedness to this country. And today you're bragging about what you've done. You have a record in this country. This, this is what you did, these are the results and the most catastrophic results, as far as the epidemic and the number of deaths are concerned. You've completely dismantled the entire democratic system that we've been building for 30 years. Something similar is happening in the area you are covering, the distinguished minister you are formally covering, of course, formally, but in fact, on your behalf and in your cabinet, there is a Secretary of State who is signing the millions of transactions that have been allocated to you from the Cabinet of the President of the Government. There's probably not enough control. However, any comparability with Belarus and similar countries is merely random. The measures you took last year, when I was doing this communication, somehow at that time, were full of nonsense. You changed them from day to day, in the last period even during the day, in the morning, one information, in a few hours, different information. The matter has escalated so far that even Ukom, one Ukoma official, has been given such powers to prohibit you from performing, not just you, and the other ministers, remember that you should not have made statements. He's determined to determine who you're going to give the statement to, when, on what subject. Catastrophe. This is self-managing one of the pillars? As a result – record long closed schools, nonlife measures, parents on the verge of despair, the number of children with mental disorders has increased significantly. These are the consequences, respected colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, the successful Minister of the Honourable Minister. I will remember this period in particular after the drastic appeals of many parents of children with special needs who have written to us, who have begged the Minister, to take action. Well, Minister, you haven't heard them, you haven't heard them yet. So far away that the Constitutional Court also had to cut down. Not to mention the appropriateness of your statement in the peaceful protests of the students in Maribor, I would rather not mention it. In short, one willingness to engage in a dialogue that would have been during an epidemic encounter was simply not on your part. I firmly believe that the key to successfully overcoming the challenges that the education and education system faced at the time of the epidemic has, in any event, been the cooperation of the Ministry with all stakeholders in this system, i.e. cooperation with experts in the field of teaching work, school psychologists, schools, employee representatives, not least with students and students. And this is what you were asked to do at the end of December to remind you of the meeting of the Education Committee 28. 12. First such call by SWIZ – include us, let's step together. Did you hear them? No, you haven't heard. At that time, you have already been proposed to set up a temporary coordination group composed of parents, teachers, experts, in short, with a view to making this epidemic as bearable as possible as possible and to defeat it as soon as possible. Unfortunately, they weren't being heard. This confusion and wrong decisions not only of you, but also of the governments, especially this school district, have not changed even after your March interpretation. Even the period after this goes in the same direction, there is no conversation, including not at all, at the end of August the SWIZ union calls you back with the same story – we make a consultative group before the school year, we agree on measures that will be bearable, which will be the best. To this day, as I know, they have not received an answer or an answer as to what else to establish. In short, employees in the educational system have been reduced all this time to a passive crowd without the possibility of participation in the design of meaningful and feasible measures. Today, colleagues and colleagues in the debates on this successful leadership have also provided information that 17,000 students have signed up for your resignation. Also in the debate, colleague Anja Bah Žibert mentioned today and told you: Minister, do not be afraid for your support. And you really don't have to be afraid for your support. After you bought both minorities, Ambassador Desus, SNS, in the budget yesterday with millions of dollars, you are really not, I know exactly what the result of the vote will be. [[…]] What I don't understand is that she finally told you that she believed that you felt sorry for her, that this was all exhausting for you two, and I don't know what we'd be exhausted from today. You had the opening presentation, but you made two more calls in the middle. You've been here for ten hours. I don't know how interesting it is on your phone. You've been quiet for ten hours. Probably good games and those in the virtual world where everything goes well, but you've had great measures. To conclude, the honourable Minister, such a relationship that you had, so underestimating, exceptingly, I do not know what to say, the ignorant attitude towards the professional and interested public, the school unions, civil society, especially the inability to harmonise these epidemiological measures in the education and education system, are more than enough reasons for your resolution, which I will, of course, support together with colleagues and colleagues of the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Get ready, Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. First of all, I must say that I am shocked by the words of some of my fellow Members and of my colleagues who refer them to the Minister, even her former colleagues or her party colleagues. On that day, you insulted, humiliated, told her that she was incapable of saying that the flower Janez Janša had placed on the shelf was a Nazi collaborator and such things. I wonder if you're even listening to what you're saying. Then we are taught about non-violent communication by a Member who is among the most verbally violent, but also physically violent in the Maribor protests, that he had to be calmed by the police by putting him down. The LMŠ Member explains how there is no analysis of how the closure of schools and distance education affected schoolchildren. But he knows everything without these tests. He knows that the situation is catastrophic, what the children have suffered and so on. Our children are in the same situation as we are. We're dealing with a virus that surprised everyone. For a year and a half, we've all been learning how to live with him and how to beat him. Most of us are trying to do as much as we can to actually beat him. But some of you are against everything that's proposed. First against the app #Stay Healthy that Minister Hojs will not follow you. You are opposed to all other measures. Once the schools have to be opened, then why they're not closed, once they're dissolved, and then why it's not locked down. Whatever this government does, it's not right for you, you're opposed to everything. Members of the SD, LMŠ in this Parliament you have recorded masks saying that you no longer go to this masquerade, make posters and campaign against masks in schools. Now that schools are the most endangered and the most affected between the ages of 4 and 15, you accuse the government of being responsible for the bad situation in schools. You are loud in LMŠ, but let me tell you that under this minister, a famous school from Kamnik began to be built, for which your President Marjan Sarec, when he was still mayor, spent more than one million, one million and a half euros, was nothing. This year and in the next two years, more than €120 million will be provided for investments in schools and kindergartens. For 126 schools and kindergartens. It's the same story as the senior citizens' homes. The Social Democrats were running both departments, and nowhere to be found. You've been spending money on studies, for whatever it is, instead of investing in the homes of the elderly, in schools, kindergartens. What's more, you've taken lunches for young people, supplements for blind people and so on, and now you're full of mouths what you should do. One of you seems to think that state secretaries in the Cabinet of President of the Government are for different areas. I don't know if that's your problem. It is important that the work is done, and obviously such an organization works. That's what the results show. Every job is organized as it thinks it will be most effective. We have one of the highest economic growth, the lowest unemployment, low inflation, multiple taxes and contributions are collected, as more people are employed, and projects that have stood for years and years are being implemented. But we can't all, and at least the minister, at a few hundred schools, deal with a principal who says there is no virus, but with a principal who forbids directors to take action. Most administrators and teachers work hard and do what they need to do. But there will always be some nerds who need to write everything, draw it, give instructions for every step. Then we see on TV reports, when in half a minute a first-grader tells us how to test it, and shed light on all the problems that some principals and teachers have for very high wages. And as a colleague said, once again, you might consider testing differently, maybe at home, maybe I don't know what. In Germany and Austria, they can do this, but with us everything is difficult and everything is a problem. In one day, it turned out that there was no problem, that the problem was just for someone who wanted to have a problem. You report to the ministers that he has a demeaning and non-professional attitude towards scientific research. As far as I know, your minister, Pikalo, has bludgeoned and bludgeoned with the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation. At the time of this Minister, when you did not see her, when you said she was nowhere, she did so, coordinated and worked on a law that was already passed in this mandate. If Minister Pikalo were here, we'd probably still be talking. You have problems with some of the new study programs. What, though, is the problem with the new study programs? Where does it say that journalists only have to be educated on FDV? Nowhere. And because of your poor planning and limited admission to study, we have too few doctors, too few computers and many other professions. Now the ministries are responding to the needs and this is your statement to the Minister. You see the neglect of sport when there is a significant increase in resources for both programmes and infrastructure. 50 investments in sports facilities, higher money awards for Olympics and much more. And to conclude, colleagues from SD, for you, everything that is in SD is professional. All yours are experts, and ours are politicians themselves, even though they went to the same colleges and graduated from them. Of course, I won't support interpolation. I regret, however, that the debate on interpolation in some has triggered such, I cannot say negative, but even real evil, from what we have heard in the course of today. To humiliate and insult someone as if he had never done anything in his life, but it is totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Comrade Sarec, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u252	No, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u253	You can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u254	Good. But then I have a procedural proposal to remind my colleague Jeraj if others disagree that they have done nothing, as she did with me at school, then let him not expect others to be completely friendly to her and never say anything. But as far as schools are concerned, it's a different matter than was presented here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u255	Thank you very much. It wasn't exactly a procedural proposal, but colleague Jeraj heard you. Nick Pretbel, the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u256	Yes, I have a replica, Mr. President. Thank you very much. I'm replicating my colleague Jeraj because she obviously didn't understand me anymore or she didn't want to understand, anyway. In my implementation, I did not talk about the fact that the Minister did not prepare studies and that she did not prepare analyses and that I knew everything. Quite the opposite, but of course you didn't hear me, and I have to say this, that there will be no chance that there will be any misdirection in the air. In my implementation on the consequences of imprisonment, on the mental distress of children and young people, I highlighted the Minister's response, where she said that the studies were carried out and studies were carried out, and then I commented – interestingly, how many studies since you always advertised at this level, but no results. That's what I said. However, I also said what children's psychiatry experts have said that things are catastrophic, that they stay with the education ministry on different shores, as if they were not talking about the same children, the same situation. And that there is no communication with the Ministry of Education. And these are also the obviouss of the minister concerned, and this is my replica, because obviously you didn't understand what I was talking about, and I'm explaining to you that it's all from the readings of that interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. If the lady followed the entire session, I would see that I praised your mayor from Ivančna Gorica, but as for Maribor, we were tear gassers already in 2012 and 2013, so I will explain that you will understand because as stupid taxpayers, as Vizjak would say, we were against corruption, including those from Kalohova Street. And even Kaloch's brother, when you wanted to punish our high school kids, gave money for those high school kids to pay for it, and then the court was smart. Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Now, a replica of a colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would like to replicate Mrs Jeraj, as far as the investments they are talking about are concerned. It's true that you wrote on paper that you would invest in 126 schools and kindergartens. But it's also true that you've made 15 billion poofs for this, which means you've trusted my grandkids in case I ever have them. By the way. And as every housewife knows, the poofs have to be paid, and we're gonna have to pay you for a very long time. That's the first time. And a second time. When she talked about us talking here today in LMŠ and in the opposition, when you think everything is catastrophic, and in fact everything is cool and cool, I will read to you what I got in the middle of this debate less than a bad hour ago. I quote because I read what I got: “Hello, I listen to him interpolation. Custec. Since I come from school, I'm a primary school teacher, I'd ask you to tell the minister the following fact in thought. At the beginning of the epidemic, children who attended the first class were just beginning to learn the letters and to learn how to read. In the second grade they continued to describe, unfortunately for four months at a distance. And now you think how they read? Come and listen, and you will see gaps in reading knowledge. Don't even talk about counting to 100. Unfortunately, I am not talking about any content, but I am talking about lifelong knowledge, which is the basis of further knowledge. The one who thinks that schooling from home for so long is romantic is wrong. It also has consequences, which you're afraid of. And instead of having peace and opportunity in schools to remove and acquire new knowledge, we deal with pressures, problems, circuits and bureaucracy and so on.” In short, this is the romantic superstate we have in schools. That is why I would like to discuss something else today. As I said before, I want this minister to finish her work here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Now for one warning. The New Slovenia Group has 6 seconds to go, so you probably agree not to discuss the two reported debates. That's why it's Masha Kociper's turn, and then Gregor Perič's turn, and Moica the Boxer, I don't know how much remains. The first word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u262	Thank you very much, President, and welcome, Members and Members of Parliament. Nice greeting to the minister with the team! It's been 13 hours since this interpolation, and it's hard to sit here, even for us Members who are leaving the room, we're going to the office to stretch our legs a little bit, and so on, let alone the Secretary of State and Secretary of State. I imagine that it is not easy, and I also realize that it is not easy to listen to all these words, all these debates, some really critical, some even perhaps, for my taste, too insulting. Sometimes I wonder what's going on and what's bothering us those who are going to politics, that we're willing to listen to all this and to endure all this, but these are, of course, my traumas that I have to clear with myself. Of course, I don't mind the Minister defending himself to respond to this interpolation, that she was also a little sharper in her response to interpolation. But I resent this attempt to defend her very much, and I think it's really inappropriate for her to say in her response to the interpolation that the criticisms of the opposition are based on mechanisms to silence women. I took this comment very seriously and very personally because both I and my client, Alenka Bratušek, have been very consistent and with the best intentions of fighting for the equal position of women. And never would any situation or interpretation, in the event of our criticism, have anything to do with whether a person is in office, male or female. We criticise, attack, in accordance with our Constitution, the role of Minister of Education, now performed by Dr. Kustec; and I do not agree in any way that this is any connection with the Minister being a woman. I resent this comment so much more because the Minister is part of some government team, some political power that is for my taste – everything I say in this debate is, of course, my opinion, I have already presented today – very chauvinistic. This part of the political space, in particular the SDS party, I think, allows me to have an opinion, does not take equality of equality of women as seriously as we do on the other hand. If we look at the composition of the government, how many women ministers there are, how many of these are proposed by which party; I don't know if the SDS is one or maybe one, the average number of women in this government and, of course, none of the parties in this part of the political space has a female leader. We in the Sab party do not have only a party president, I am also the leader of the parliamentary group, we had a minister when we were in the government, and we are a small party. And when I look at the meetings of this government, I notice very clearly, I don't know if anyone has dealt with it, I notice this male predominance and this male principle and this testosterone principle of the way it works and so on. Point your fingers at us on this side and play this woman's note in this situation really wasn't right and it was unfair for us. This is particularly disturbing because one of the offenses that I personally have toward you is not so much a single measure regarding the crown. And I'm sure that every minister, including you, as far as the crown is concerned, has tried to solve things in the best way possible, one more, one less successful. My biggest offense to you is this ideological shift that you and your client have made. The fact that you were the strongest party with the largest number of Members in the previous term, defenders as some normality, your Prime Minister of the Government spoke about the political stability and normality guaranteed by the SMC. And this party, of course, has made a salad of mortals, still enables this government to function and allows the government to function and the way of policy, which you strongly denied in the previous mandate, opposed it, were loud critics, were on the opposite side; you, too, as a former leader of a very large parliamentary group. Ideally entirely on opposite shores, with completely different policies and views on policy implementation, now at once – and one really wonders whether one function is so valuable – but this is a policy, this way of policy, the way is most controversial for me, not that we are thinking differently, acceptable and perfectly normal. To read us here and play on a woman's note while at the same time being part of such a government and adopting such a policy, that is a problem for me. I'm going back to the epidemic, but in the context of what I just said, my offenses against this ministry and this minister are elsewhere. Like private school funding. Already in the previous mandate, the SMC – and we can see why – has prevented those who have prevented them from amending the Constitution and clearly entering the Constitution, that most of the money should go to public schools and that the way private schools are financed can be determined by the state. Without SMC's long-standing dream of NSI to give private schools 90% funding, if we connect both programmes, it's 100 percent for this mandatory programme, and if we look at it all together, actually 90% funding, it's my huge offense to SMC and to everyone who supported it. We'll never get it back, ever again. And it is not true that this was the decision of the Constitutional Court. The first constitutional decision was unclear, and the second said there was nothing wrong. The law proposed by the Minister by the SD would constitutionally remedy the situation, but the SMC also did not have enough attention. And you know, in this house, I'm most annoyed by the fact that someone wants to go private with public funds. That you're going private and you want to be 90 percent funded. That you want to be a private kindergarten, and you want to be 85% funded by the state, and that's what this term was. [[advertising from the hall]] Alice, please. The mayors have given an initiative, a completely reasonable initiative in this mandate, so that the local community should give its consent and say if new private kindergarten departments are opening up. We have a public education system that provides public education, public schools and so on. And if the capacity is enough, why would private people open up new capacities? Under your ministry, that was also rejected. This is, of course, not mentioned on this list of things done. Not to mention some now insanely uncritical attitude towards some new, strange universities that are set up for supporters or sympathizers of SDS and their friends. This uncritical dispersion not only with money, but with the reputation of our universities, our higher schools, our education. And if I go on this list that I printed, where you advertise on Twitter, what was done in this mandate. I think that we all know that, regardless of what it says here, and I will return to it, for all of us in this house and also in the general public, how the individual minister, in particular the Minister of Education, will respond to this epidemic, this epidemic situation, the problems that arise in this regard, the dilemmas that arise, the challenges that have been daily. And here you just didn't play your part. Today you have been very criticized, some also very ugly, even for my taste, but I have to say that we think – you are simply not up to it, you are not up to it. I don't know what kind of group you were as a leader, I haven't spoken to my colleagues. On purpose today, I said that you must be like a human, purely okay or a good mother, a wife, what do we know, perhaps an excellent lecturer; but you are not up to it. As my grandmother said - not everyone is for everything, not everyone is for everything. Doesn't mean he's not good anywhere else. And the fact that you are not for everyone is reflected in the quality of communication and that those who cooperate with you do not believe that we – Members of Parliament, those who work with you, that you are unresponsive, that the instructions come too late, that you are too absent and so on. You just don't get it. And I'm sure you're trying. At one point, it seemed to me that it was all so stressful for you not to come to the National Assembly at all. I've only seen state secretaries in the last six months. Well, I'm thinking, why are you guys hanging out, 'cause your job's waiting for you in college. You professors really have this so beautifully arranged, you can come back anytime. If this is such a stress for you, I don't know, you have to help yourself, we can't help you. And that communication wasn't quality, that you're not responsive, that you're not timely instructions, and so on, as I say, I'm not saying, that's what the shareholders who work with you say, 17,000 employees in education require your resignation, not me, those who work with you. And my next offense is that you didn't act as the Minister of Education as the guardian of this department's attorney. The situation has been very difficult, I agree, parents are difficult, even teachers are probably sometimes difficult, principals and so on, but we missed your role in relation to the Prime Minister of the Government, to the government that you would be the guardian of this department to see that you are working for children, adolescents, athletes, teachers, teachers to understand parents. However, we have heard a bunch of such empty flossules, as I have been reading all day from your speech – the school must not be a field of political struggle. So what is this one floscule?Oh, my God! The school must not be a field of political struggle. Where is the school’s field of political struggle? But we MPs went to some school and we fought there, didn't we?Oh, my God! I don't know. Or you said that several times — we'll all go back to school together or we won't. I never understood that either. We'll all go back to school together or we won't. Where are we going if we don't go to school? Or that – we have an excellent distance education system, the best in the world, and we can be very proud of it. But the problems are so much that the head hurts, from the connection to the mental problems of children and so on. And that response to the epidemic wasn't right, it wasn't okay. And that's our grudge against you, and that's why we think this interpolation should work. But if I look at this pamphlet of yours, what's been done, of course, it's here, as usual in this government, a bunch of money-related things. I am now about 10 years, more or less, active in politics and up to one year ago I thought that politics is possible because every euro you have to turn and figure out where you're going to put it, and yet it's always too little, and there's always too much desire. Well, now I've realized in the last year that it's not even true that money is as much as you want, falling out of the sky as we have for everything. And of course in such circumstances, when the first time in the history of money is more than enough, we can give higher money awards for Olympic medals. Great, great. Approved 50 investments in sports facilities. Great. We know that the investment could not have started one year ago and within one term, but it started a long time ago. That's something to brag about, okay. Approved 126 investments in kindergartens and schools, super-approved, money is obvious. Investments that have already begun are now approved, commendable. Free kindergarten for another child. Okay, so we know that this was also the New Slovenia program all the time now. Is it true that all parents in this situation, including those very well-placed, free kindergartens, really need one political debate where we may be different, but fine. The Law on Scientific Research and Innovation has been adopted. This one, as far as I can tell, was prepared for three quarters under Minister Pickal. And a law has been passed to deal with children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems. Great. Another marriage, but a special marriage. But it doesn't matter to me. As it is said, it was essential for your mandate and your function that you were dealing with the epidemic, and you obviously couldn't do that. I'm not gonna say anything about you being personally responsible for what I don't know or who the kids didn't learn. I say, I'm sure you've tried your best, but something is hard, and something is the result; and the result is simply not. I also resent that in the last budget you didn't find some small money, all of it in just over 2 million, for the mental health of children and adults. There should be an urgent increase in the number of advisory workers, now that children are in such distress because of this crown of crisis. Teachers, directors, should be trained urgently to respond. And again, you haven't proved to be a good enough negotiator for your department, and yet you haven't convinced me that you're the guardian and lawyer of your department. I'd be done with it. I know it's a tough day for us. Interpellation may not work. And if it doesn't work out, I'd like you, Madam Secretary, to try and change your way and act differently. This way, even at your best will, does not work. Maybe it'll work some other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Colleague Iva Dimic, do you want to take advantage of that word and take advantage of that seven seconds? No, no, no. Okay. The word has Gregor Perič and Marjan Šarec. I didn't read it before, then Mojca Škrnjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u264	President, thank you so much for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Minister, we have been listening to these discussions for several hours now, and I think that the arguments simply ran out from the very beginning, even before this interpretation was actually submitted. There were no more arguments because we were listening to what we had heard at the previous interpretation. The difference between the previous and the current interpolation is that those documents we received were lectured, but everything else remains the same, within the same frameworks, no surprises, no disclosures or anything. In fact, we have wasted quite a bit of our time, including the time of the ministry, and in these difficult circumstances we could do something else useful, exactly what you are reading. Today we have heard this above all, and I think this has hurt you the most, what has been done in such a short time, which has not been done before in ten or perhaps on individual segments even in twenty or more years. I believe it's hard to accept. What I find hard to accept, however, is that even a considerable part of the Slovenian public, if not even the whole part of the Slovenian public, because I believe that it is not interesting for some, but I think it is a symbol of this and also of previous interpretation, so for a school without masks. This is one of the promoters of this interpretation thus concerned that the measures introduced by the government were communicated in an appropriate manner, so that we all agreed on what we must do, how to address the problems we have. The government said let's have masks; you said we don't need masks. Some of you took them down, but now we see that we can have a school in extremely acute epidemiological conditions with masks. And I don't think any of the kids have had any problems with the mask. But there are some, unfortunately younger ones, who also have problems mainly because covid-19 no longer spars. Speaking of communication again, you should be communicating with an expert. Then we can take Portugal as a fine example, where they have a high rate of infection compared to us. And who was communicating? General. Do you imagine that in Slovenia you would communicate all these things to the general, someone from the army? I think you could use a ride. It took place on 30 March, if I recall correctly, one gentleman in front of the National Assembly, when he wanted to enter the premises with a motor sawmill, a very sad event, a judgment worthy, but unfortunately, what's even sadder for me is that that bike has become some symbol of these protests that we watch every Friday. So they adopted him, this rickshaw we see, because today he also drove around the National Assembly. And this became some symbol of measures and ways of respecting measures; and then it is no wonder that we read the headlines — Father came to Solkan with a motorcycle before school. If he can come before the National Assembly, he can come before or to school. I don't know, these are your symbols, these are your projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u265	My friend Perich, we're in the middle of an interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u266	Of course, we are, unfortunately. Then we move on, take action. On the one hand, you're calling for protests, your member of the SD, that was November 8th, November 13th, here we would lock down, we'd shut down the whole country. Then let's move on. We're talking about testing kids. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Han, would you help me, would you let me come to my place, and let me sit here and let me help. Don't you? Why not? [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u267	A little more peace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u268	That's your mother, too, because I know why. Testing. We say that we will finally begin to strictly follow all these measures and test so that you will stop bothering me. [[…]] Thank you. Seriously. A little respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u269	A little silence, please, so the debater can speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u270	I'm gonna ask for extra time because it's nothing like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u271	Give him 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u272	Do it every time. And I'll get you something to put up with.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u273	Please let him speak. I know we're all tired, but let him say what he has to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u274	For 14 days, some of your representatives, or they promoted themselves in the media as independent directors, and then we see the same people sitting behind your ommis, under your brand SD, the opposition. So you'd pull another 14 days. What would happen to the epidemic? I think the virus doesn't care much about preparation. We need to respond quickly, but I know these are the problems that you keep reporting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u275	Please, please, colleagues from SD, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u276	No, no, no. Now I'm gonna say this. The crime you now read to us in the SMC is only one. That we went to the government of Janez Janša. And what we're looking at today is punishment. But we've been watching this for a year and a half. Everything you do with us, crying, bullets, pressure, shaking hands, it's nothing else. And that's a beautiful symbol, what we're looking at today, of these pressures of yours, because it's not really a mask problem, it's not a problem of self-testing, it's just one problem -- and the problem is that you're not in power. That's all. [[advertising from the hall]] This will be said by voters and don't let Mr. Han worry about ratings of SMC or anyone, deal with you, also deal with your mayors, deal with your local environment, you have more than enough work to roll up your sleeves and get to work. That's enough for everyone. It's enough for everyone. It seems to me that we could end this debate in some other way, but obviously we have to fight on every matter. I show respect for the Minister, who in these difficult circumstances has done a great deal of work in many times of stumbling. We have a complicated situation, but we still have an open economy and we also have open schools. And all my respect, Madam Minister, that you are also, with the help of your coworkers and also your employees at the Ministry, by the way, a lot of your members, if you think that the Minister is incompetent, then all those you have appointed to the Ministry are incompetent. I don't think so. I won't support this interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Procedurally first, colleague Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u278	Please, President, to calm down Mr Perič and explain to him that he is in the party, which is always in power, even if he gives up his electorate. Let him not hurt those who are in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u279	colleague Sukič, as you know the rules of procedure, you know this is not a procedural proposal. Please. Hold on. Replica, buddy Duck. And then Lydia the Wild Man Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u280	Thank you so much for saying that. Let's find good habits, let's get vaccinated. I'm actually deeply sad, and colleague Perič is from Izola, and I thought that at least he knew that gentleman from Portugal was a vice-admirer and not a general. Another time. I deeply agree with you. There was no significant change between the first interpolation and the second. And that's why 17,000 schoolchildren finish the sentences themselves. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u282	Thank you, President, for your word. I would only replicate Mr Perič in the same part, when he said, stating, "no one has a problem with masks". Dear Mr. Perič, have you seen those pictures of doctors and nurses wearing masks? Have you seen and heard of the problems of deaf children? From Visit. I'll read you what masks mean. Covering your mouth and nose may cause anxiety or panic. That's a lot. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u283	Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik, that's not a replica. Tell me what you were misunderstood about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u284	It's a replica, I'm sorry, and I have three minutes to say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u285	No, it's not. It's not. Tell me what you were misunderstood about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u286	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u287	Thank you. Quiet, please. The word is Marjan Sarec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u288	Thank you for your word, President. Despite the late hours, I am speaking, although at least the minister is used to late hours, because there are night meetings, which the whole of Slovenia is anxiously waiting for, and then not much happens. I didn't mean to come by because I know that arguing with you, with anyone from the SDS or the government, is like a car that doesn't start. In short, you're in a bad mood and the results aren't great. But since again the SDS told me about that invisible famous school of mine and that sort of thing, I decided to explain some things. I mean, he doesn't think that it's just milk and honey under this government, but before that, I don't know how many years there's been no investment. We did one school in Kamnik, by the way, because it's two schools, not just one school, but a sports hall at the same time. Before my arrival, 500 000 euros were spent, but it was a whole complex. And even now, boast about how this so-called invisible school is being built. Yeah, it's building, but the equipment isn't included, and the outside arrangements aren't even included in the demolition of the old school, so it'll be pretty happy if I can, because my colleague Jeraj just mentioned it. However, as for the Minister, there was a time when a Member's term of office had been taken from the current Prime Minister of the Government, and a lot of things were heard from her mouth, how Janez Janša did not deserve this mandate and how his mandate should be withdrawn. Today her boss is fine with this term, obviously. In short, things are changing. As for the results and graduations and these matters, it is probably not the minister's thanks, but the schoolchildren who attended the graduation who, despite all the measures, were so keen that they were successful at the graduation and everywhere you boast. That too was heard in the debate. On the other hand, on August 31st, at 4: 00 p.m., schoolchildren received a district for September 1st. If that's a good time, I don't know if I'm ready for class. Then it is unacceptable for people to go with motorcycles before schools to terrorize, to yell at teachers, because teachers and all those who work hard are not to blame for mixed government action. That's a fact. Therefore, in fact, it is on your part, as Member Breznik said, that it is like Mary Teresa; it is more Mary Antoinette, but I do not think it is necessary to lose additional comments, because in this megamania of yours, when nothing was done before, you also told God how the world was created, only then could it be created, today heard so much praise that man is in a bad war. But if you're more pleased if you're satisfied with it, if it makes you happy, if we're all fools on this side of you, and I don't know what it is, then I leave you to this pleasure of your rule. And you say we're sad because we're out of power. We are not at all sad, we have proved that we can also withdraw from power, we do not hesitate, while you are buying individual votes, so that today you will brag about how the interpretation failed. I'm saying, the mandate will be over soon, and fighting with you is, I repeat, like with a car that doesn't start, in short, the same effect. Therefore, when you boast about these millions, I fear that the next government will find that there will not be so many of the millions that you are boasting about today. Because we have seen so many budgets in our lives that we know what is real. And so, dear colleagues and colleagues on the right, enjoy your bubble, be glad to be loved by all of you. But I think reality is very different. However, I do not invite ministers and I do not ask for anything, but I ask you to prepare measures in the future a little earlier, but that they are not press conferences at 11:15, when everyone is already tired and then they are waiting for what will be the measures. And then, on the one hand, we say that hospitals repent in stitches, and on the other hand, it's all true. I also ask the government to commit itself, if at all possible, to solving the epidemic. And at least let him announce it. Because we were told that we had declared it too late, and when the World Health Organization, and now at 5,000 deaths and at full hospitals, the epidemic has not been declared at all. Why not? Because there's no money, because the recorder made 81,000 euros for covid supplements. I believe so. You say – we work for people. Yeah, just for some. Thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u289	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u290	Thank you very much. The former Minister of Education Dr. Beast once said — everyone knows football and education. And today we have witnessed the Anafabetic Theatre in the field of education, which was staged by the KUL opposition. You've requested analysis of distance learning without any analysis, and yet you haven't read a few hundred pages of the long graduation report about the NPZ. And today's interpolation is a grotesque, grotesque insult. I've never been around such uneducated people in my life who would be so insulting to a fellow human being. And the essence of today's interpolation is nothing more than an investment of 120 million that goes to kindergartens and schools and children instead of the left pocket and the left business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister and the representative of the interpellationary proposer are given the floor. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simona Kustec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I've recorded your questions, your comments, your answers. Given that most have explained and the answers in the very contents of the response to interpolation, I will not shorten your precious time now to renew what has already been written and what you have received. However, there were some questions that were not really adequately explained, so let me explain something else. You asked about the research being carried out with a view to the so-called corrective measures for this period of the most difficult co-vid time in the field of education and education. True, the ministry has launched a large so-called consortium evaluation study, which is now slowly approaching the end. We are still waiting for the final report, the joint report of this consortium of the entire research group. There are already so-called intermediate results across specific areas. But what is the task and the goal of this study is to get one whole. Maybe specific information. An analysis of the achievements of the NPZ and the socio-economic status of pupils and pupils is being carried out. That's what the state exam center does. Then preliminary results from the study of the faculty of education, this academic view. The progress of mathematics and Slovenian lessons and the experience of distance learning. This part covers the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia. And analysis of preschool education, Pedagogical Institute. When we have a full picture of all these individual research findings and, above all, recommendations, this is a useful study, which means that we would like to have the expertise based on all the research data also propose specific technical measures that we will then transfer after the normal system of professional validation into the knowledge and validation of the General Education Council, which will then give us the green light, so that we can also properly formulate them and introduce them as part of the educational process. I expect that, next school year, we will also introduce these so-called remedial measures on the basis of this study. It's a really cool national study. Then, of course, we also participate in a number of international studies. And there, in a way, in particular by sharing some experience, we are somehow identifying those most optimal steps forward, starting, of course, with work as part of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, where I expect that in a good 10 days we will also confirm a special document at Council level on so-called combined learning. What you have already highlighted during the debate is the good, positive experience, the refreshing of the education system for the future, for the needs of our young generations, which combine this traditional learning in schools with the work of learning in connection with the use of ICT technology or this digital education, also partly by remoteness, not only because of the crown, but also as part of the needs and capabilities of the modern system, and a very important segment also of education in the spaces of nature. What we have been doing with exceptional success for a very long time in the framework of the concept or system of centres for school and school activities and where we are also a great European and a broader example. Similarly, at UNESCO level last week, we have activated one commitment, we have made a commitment to our common future for education, in which we, as representatives of Slovenia, also participate intensively and actively, so that I expect that we will also have relevant data at this level. Then there are classic international research, PISA, TALIS and so on, where we also cooperate and we will be able to compare data not only between countries, but also within the country at different times. After that, an extremely important study was conducted at the Andragog Centre of Slovenia on reflection of adult education and advice on the distance between the pandemic. Even this part, which we did not devote ourselves to today, was very much ahead of the challenge. And here too, we need certain reflections and corrective measures, in order to bring back, in particular, this very vulnerable group from the adult education field, which emerged from the system at the time of the pandemic, in order to complete some of their basic education. One beautiful and very interesting book was also published on the basis of this study by Dr. Tanja Možin: Let’s tell ourselves stories; experience of adults during the pandemic. I highly recommend it. I think that this is literature, which is not only an expert material in the field of education, but a record of an extremely important social climate and the state of the moment, of this period. It also highlighted, very in place, the question of responding mainly to these psychosocial distresses. Ambassador Cigler, Ambassador Muršič, Member Kovacic, for what we have made a commitment in the field of law itself, we will keep our word. Expect the New Year's proposal in December, what we started on the Joint Committee, we are currently running the final rounds of coordination and I am counting on, as it is said, the proposal for a novel to come to the National Assembly this year. With my colleague Cigler, once again, thanks, we are mostly working together through monthly parliamentary issues, and I consider this cooperation to be extremely positive, because we have also made one important move at the level of the department, starting with the establishment, for the first time at all, of a special monitoring system for these children and their status. I also understand the Communication, which relates to the question of where the limit is between respect for the professional evaluation and then administrative decisions for the allocation of the status alone. We will also pay particular attention to this and see if anything else needs to be changed and corrected in this legal sense. Member Muršič's colleague also put on the spot the need for additional staff, for additional assistance, under additional programmes in this field. As I have shown to you from the very beginning, this support exists, also financially, financial support is here, but we do have a problem with not getting into a system of adequate personnel that could meet all these needs. This is something that is actually the rakrana of not being as obvious as a country carefully enough, planning responsibly enough and expecting us to need such profiles. And I also expect that, together with the universities, we will also respect this fact in preparing the new call cities, taking into account and giving it one priority place, so that, of course, we can educate and get it into the system as quickly as possible. As far as sports was concerned, the question was also explained, as has already been said, in the answers. It is true that we did not have the appropriate legal basis for making formal payment of these costs for protective equipment, as for schools, so that through the annual sports programmes the associations could apply for it and then get a refund. Now, of course, self-test tests are also available for free. Here too was the emphasis of the day and the attention, but in such a different way. Before I conclude, perhaps something else that I believe will and must also be our common challenge for further education and education in this country. Firstly, we surely need updated educational and study programmes. Our educational system is largely based on the content and baseline of programs that we have actually transmitted from the previous system and from those times when we are independent. The needs, the development, the interests of our children, our young generations, have gone hand in hand with the development of time. And here we will need a more comprehensive reflection very quickly, absolutely based on the assessment of what the traditional knowledge is, colleague Breznik would say – from the time of Mary Teresa, which we still need to have as fundamental knowledge; what is what needs to be done and added in this sense of modernisation. I'm talking all over the vertical, all over the vertical. It's gonna take a lot of work here. However, it must be realized that we, as politicians, can have as practitioners a thousand and one idea or expectation, but this will, of course, have to be done by the appropriate profession. The education system is very clear for us, even very, if you want, rigid and long-term. That's where we're going to need to think about it. If we are to introduce some curiculative changes into the system, it will take an average of 5 years for us to succeed. You know what five years means today. When you're able to establish a new program, it's obsolete because so many pilots have to do so many checks, evaluations before things move. Here too, as a matter of fact, a story. Next thing. Like in the health field, we will very soon have a problem if we do not react very quickly, so that we will not have enough personnel to carry out the educational process. Especially in suburban areas and in rural areas, schools and even kindergartens face the problem of not getting teachers or educators. This applies mainly to preschool education, the first triad and these most difficult subjects – mathematics, physics in particular. And there will have to be something done here very quickly. We already have one way to help those schools that already have a chronic problem with implementation itself. However, if we do not respond adequately systematically very soon, we will have a bigger problem, which we cannot afford as reliable as a society that can rely primarily on the quality of our knowledge. Employment for the front. He pointed to this time of crowns, namely that we will need so-called multi-professional profiles. The school, as you yourself have shown appropriately today, is not only a story of the teaching profession, but it must also be a combination of psychological professions, social workers, so profiles from this field. As you can see, all of this is a challenge that lies ahead. The challenge, which we are now aware of with all our moves, and we are also directing our follow-up action in this direction. If I finish. Some of you asked me whose side I was on. Only by the knowledge of our children, our scientists, our sport. This is the first and only mission I have since I took over the leadership of this ministry; and I will have it until the moment I finish this work in the department. So much for me. I thank you for a varied, interesting, lively debate. She also mentioned me with positive feelings about the past term. However, I wish to congratulate you, and in advance, on your vote today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u294	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Minister, you didn't convince me, not at all, the other way around. After this debate today, and in some ways your arrogant people have not responded to specific questions all the time. There were quite a few specific questions raised that you have not now answered, not to mention that you did not respond or advertise during the debate. If I pull it off the end. The fact is, you are the worst minister in the history of Slovenia. You're totally in the middle of an epidemic. Totally. We had the longest time of closed school in Europe, although things could have been handled differently. After you have opened the schools and we have warned you in the opposition for more time that you should introduce some measures to ensure that the education runs safely, introduce ventilation devices, introduce physical barriers, prepare teachers and school staff to study in different situations, you have done nothing. The measures were taken consistently from day to day, changed from day to day, and it is no wonder that there is total chaos in the Slovenian school space. If I point out three key words that show your way of ruling or managing the school sector, they are chaos, conflict and corruption. Madam Minister, every additional day that you run this ministry is a great loss to Slovenian education. Under some normal circumstances, the National Assembly would vote on your interpretation. But I believe that in the current state of affairs, the majority of the government will do what they will, and you will remain the minister. Also because of this, dear Minister, because you re-learned public money to private colleges, yesterday evening by adopting a decision in the Government to re-sell concessions. It's about colleges that are friendly with SDS and Janez Janša. With this, you bought support and probably a job after the end of your term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u295	Thank you very much. The text is also delivered by the representative of the proposaler, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u296	Thank you very much, President. After fourteen hours of discussion, the minister, who spent 25 out of 75 minutes of reported time, said: "We haven't talked enough about some things today. I mean, really?Oh, my God! [[advertising from the hall]] Fourteen hours to get one answer to the seven points we proposed in the interpretation. If you're already making a fool out of this House, stop making a fool out of schoolchildren, from people who are involved in this system. We saw the answer, you had it on your lap for a while, but it was empty. There were no arguments in the Minister's reply. If they were, they were such as to reduce the negative consequences of the epidemic without resources or analyses. We've been asking all day where these sources are, where are these analyses, where you claim that the school year was successfully carried out and that we were the best in the world. Today, after fourteen hours of debate at midnight, we know that reports on these evaluations are still in progress. Just to remind you, we've been living in this epidemic for a year and a half. One and a half years ago, this epidemic has affected schoolchildren, especially the youngest. When Mrs Škrynjar speaks about the fact that NPZs are comparable to other years, that graduations are comparable to other years; what about those in the first triad, where this epidemic is most likely to have done the most harm. You have previously heard the impact of distance learning on these basic, primary cognitive skills that are developing, on reading, on writing. This afternoon in the debate, I discussed the impact of work through screens on reading, writing and learning. You forget about it and forget about it, the Ministry of Education forgets about it in its responses, and of course it also organizes the data. One more time about school closing. Key error in answers because the Ministry states that schools in Slovenia were closed 154 days, the same data – we pulled them out in the table – shows that schools were closed 273 days. And these are things that have influenced the course of teaching. The exchange of euro, which is also mentioned in the response to this interpretation, in ICT technology is not enough because ICT education is significantly different from schooling. The other thing that is one of the main problems of this minister and currently of this ministry is some kind of deafness or inability to listen to those involved in the school field. I also received an e-mail this afternoon from someone who was attending meetings with the Ministry, and this person reminds me how the dialogue with the Ministry of Education took place, so that when a critical word came, Madam Minister said, quote, "we will not Parliament" and concluded the meeting. That's the way of dialogue. And then you wonder why such a situation is, why is such resistance by teachers, administrators, parents, others involved in these processes. All this emptiness of these arguments and of this defence, which the Ministry and the Minister have encountered, is actually sad because it tries to cover this void with some personal situation of the sexes. I think that the end of the defence today has been carried out by the Minister to attack her in the opposition, and this has also been repeated by the coalition MPs because she is a woman. Only because of that. It was said that the level of communication was disrespectful. It's hard for me to agree to this assessment. If we have used — and this is what the minister points out — the word is incompetent, it is not an insult. He's an incompetent man, whether he's a man or a woman who can't do anything. And this is our main criticism, Minister, that she was not able to take care of and advocate for an area that should be covered, to be loud, especially in relation to those that appear to be some sort of paternal figure that is set up in the form of the President of the Government. The criticism that we have written in this interpolation is not a personal criticism and is not a criticism that depends on the sex of the person who assumes this function. But it is a criticism based on inadequacy and incompetence and on the responsibility of the person occupying this position. And, Minister, you are not on the interpellation because you would be a woman, but because in Slovenia we had first closed schools and at the latest open schools, while supermarkets, large shopping centres, hairdressers, manicures, massage parlors, casinos were open. Contrary to the fact that the profession clearly recommended that schools close last. You are not guilty or criticized because you are a woman, but because you were unable to communicate with those with whom you should — with the principals, with the teachers, with all the teaching experts, not least with the parents, and perhaps with the children. It is also your fault that many children have fallen out of the learning process because of the models you have proposed. These are mainly children from deprived families, those who did not have access to tables that did not have access to computers that did not have access to the Internet, those who did not have parents who would know how to use these machines properly and, of course, also teach their children how to use them, those who were limited because of language skills. We have also had these cases when children of immigrants who are helped by Slovenian teachers in school were actually injured while working in the distance. You are not intertwined because you are a woman, but because you were, if it were crucial that you be in Slovenia when the disaster occurred, and more times, let's say summer before the fourth wave and now at the time of the introduction of self-testing, somewhere else in Slovenia. The first time you were in Tokyo, the second time you were in Paris. You are not intertwined because you would be a woman, but because what you do is harmful to higher education, because what you do mainly in higher education is simply corruption. Once again, you wanted or entered a gift for Jambrek University in the PKP. That was a gift to who? SDS. You confirmed or blessed the law of the Member State on financing education and education, which introduced the financing of private education. I would like to know your position on the second parliamentary law, including on the part of the SDS, which will politicize the sacred institutions in primary schools. You yourself said that school is not a place for politics, that there is no room for interference with politics. The SDS Group is proposing a law to increase the impact of policy in the primary schools’ holy institutions, resulting in greater power in setting up and disposing directors. We also missed that answer today. Your ministry did not say anything, but the government's official opinion was not at the time of the establishment of an independent Gram higher education institution, which was proposed by Members. We have set up a new higher education institution on the proposal of several Members. It's also an incomprehensible thing. And finally what we've been asking all day. Yesterday, the government confirmed the call for public funds to finance private higher education programmes of people close to whom? SDS. Minister, you completed your response to this interpolation a few minutes ago to work in the interest of schoolchildren, higher education and sports. I'd say the opposite. I think in this good year and a half, or year and nine months, you've proven that you're only in the interest of the biggest government party. The excuse for sex, to put it mildly, is pathetic and is merely a desire to discourage what we have mentioned and what we have stated in the interpretation. And what's even more sad, and what makes me the feminist most difficult, is that you used sex as some form of defense actually the most offensive to all the women who are actually suffering from gender inequality in this society today. Also because of your guilt. Also because most of the women were those who had to stay home with their children and teach them at the time of school. In conclusion, Simona Kustec as Minister of Education is an anti-prototype. An anti-prototype of an ideal minister or education minister, an anti-prototype, who will have to serve primarily the next person to take over this function as a model, what not to do, as a model, what to change and what not to be a minister. Since the Minister of Education or the Minister of Education should, in the first place, defend his field in a loud and firm manner rather than subjugate himself and become a sandstone for the interests of a small handful of people. And in the end, because there were also calls for the Ministry to start working differently. I can join them, but given the state that this government has brought our society into, I don't think that's going to make any difference. This government and also the minister have gambled away every confidence of everyone involved in this area, both parents and schoolchildren. And from this point of view, these calls don't do much good either. The only thing we have left is that in these few minutes we press the "for" button and, as someone said before me, at least symbolically say that we cannot agree with the Ministry of Education with such management.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u297	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, shall express its distrust to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec, and shall discharge it from office. She's out of her post as Minister. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it is 46 or more. An explanation of the voice? First, on behalf of the parliamentary group, who? No, no, no. Then Natasha Sukich in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u298	Thank you. Minister Kustec built her Mayan defense on the fact that the eyewitnesses were directed at her because she was a woman. With such a reference to sex, since this is by chance politically opportunistic, the minister, by the way, devalues the real problems of sexual inequality in society. But as the feminist she is referring to, Minister Kustec in this government subordinated herself to the structure commanded by the great patriarch Janez Janša, without objection, with her head bowed, silently. The minister rejects our findings, saying that our criticisms are based on mechanisms to silence a woman. And I'm asking you how the hell do you keep someone who's been quiet all the time? He only shows up at interpolation, and there's almost nothing there. Without indicating resources or analyses, it claims that the epidemic school year has been successfully carried out and prepares data irrespective of empirically verifiable the fact that schools in Slovenia have been closed record time in both European and global terms for 47 weeks, as shown in table Unesco. So who's lying, Unesco or the minister? And nothing seems wrong to her that, at the time of the epidemic, she followed blindly the government measures that were questionable from a health point of view, nor the fact that there were completely no pedagogical considerations nor that she allowed corruption and that she did not say anything today. It would be only honorable for him to make a statement of resignation — for his own sake. It's not going to change anyway. The Minister will be until the end of this government anyway, for education, of course, Janez Janša. I will vote in favour of interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u299	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 39. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In view of the outcome of the vote, I find that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport has not been voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 27th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 22. 11. 2021, 9:00 p.m. (The sitting was suspended 20. NOVEMBER 2021 AT 00.17.)
