ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Yuri Leup, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Franc Jurša, Jerca Korče, Felice Žiža, Nataša Sukić from 17.30 p.m., Luka Mesec from 19:00 on, Mojca Žnidarič from 15:00 on, Blaž Pavlin from 12:00 on, Aleksander Reberšek, Robert Pavšič, Brane Golubović until 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, this is with Mandate-optional matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the performance of the function of a Member of the Parliament or a Member of the State instead of a Member acting as Secretary of State. Since a Member acting as a Member instead of a Member of State acting as Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the President of the Government has resigned, the State Election Commission has forwarded to the Assembly a decision suggesting that the right to act as a Member instead of a Member of State in the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to Carmen Kozmus Ferjan. The decision was addressed by the Commission’s mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? I guess not. Do Members and Members want the word? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the following motion for a decision: As long as Ambassador Jelka Godec acts as Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, he has been acting as Ambassador of the National Assembly since today, Carmen Kozmus Ferjan, born 24. 2. 1985, based on Radavsky Street 16, Celje. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Member to join us and to occupy her post, and I wish her to perform her work successfully in the parliamentary benches. Congratulations! / applause/ This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, this is to discuss the response of the President of the government of Janez (John) to the question of the Magi. Bojane Muršič in connection with the pricing of energy and other goods in Slovenia. At its 26th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the answer that Prime Minister Janez Janša put to the question of mags. Bojane Muršič in connection with the increase in prices of energy and other goods in Slovenia. I give the word "magic." Mr Bojani Muršič for further explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The fundamental reason for the debate on the government's response to the question is, respectable, expensive. The prices of energy and vitals fly to the sky. In your reply, the President of the Government mentioned that the issue was relevant and that the government would act, which I should also thank you for today. However, I expected the government to take concrete measures to improve the situation of citizens and citizens to date; unfortunately, this is not the case. Prices are still rising and rising. Energy and housing are the most insidious. Again, food prices began to rise. In recent years, prices have been rising in service activities that have received extensive funding from public funds — hotels and restaurants, as well as from health care. It is understood that rising energy prices is happening to all the European Union and to other regions around the world, but it is not irrelevant that the European Union is aware of this as well. The European Commission therefore made it clear on 13 October that the current situation required a response from countries and provided tools for action and support to the Member States of the European Union. As many as 20 European countries have taken various measures, even the neighbouring Republic of Croatia has temporarily frozen the prices of all fuels. However, the Slovenian government does not seem to intend to take sufficient action. In the meantime, the Minister of Infrastructure, which is responsible for electricity, is involved in the recruitment of energy. The Minister of Economy, responsible for the deregulation of fuel prices, was convinced in the previous month at the meeting of the National Assembly that there was no reason for both incentives and measures. Raises in energy prices and energy prices have already affected the socially weak and the energy poverty of households is increasing. Many households had to fill tanks before the start of the heating season. On 18 October, when I asked you a question, your ministers argued that regulation was not necessary because the margins did not rise. The following day, Minister Restorationšek made it clear that the margins of the oil traders rose from 8 to 15 centimetres per litre. A day later, the government announced that it would again regulate the margin on the fuel oil, but the regulation only entered into force 9. 11. And it became clear at that time that this measure would cost a thousand litres of oil for at least 116 euros. So the regulation works, it's too bad you didn't introduce it in time. Unfortunately, the heating season began much earlier. So where are the solutions? Quick and timely solutions. Energy, fuel and fuel prices, which represent a large part of the costs for people with lower incomes, are one of the rare categories of goods for which the government has a legitimate basis for regulating their prices. And it was this government that decided to abolish all price control instruments at first, and then only after public pressure did it start re-implementing the old regulations, so the limit on the margin on the fuel oil 9. 11. 6 cents per litre, but unfortunately it's too late again. In this way, the government is too late to take action to regulate oil derivatives rising into the sky. As a result, rising prices of petroleum derivatives raises living needs. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to remind you that we are literally ahead of the tsunami's image at all levels. Vulnerable groups that have barely broken through from month to month, including families with minimal incomes, single - parent families, pensioners, for a short time — all are desperate. We are reminded of the difficulties of the Slovenian Union of Consumers, NGOs, and calls have also been launched by economic associations that are also seeking assistance due to disturbances in energy markets, so it is important how the government will seek a balance between social needs and market interests. In addition to further substantiating the call by the Union of Consumers on the seriousness of the situation, it should also be stressed that such a call to the government provides the basis for long-term action. The price control law provides that the government has the basis for a one-year duration of the measures imposed if it acts on the call of consumer organisations. It should also be recalled that the current government has completed a long-term fuel price adjustment period. Before that, there was a period of low prices, and the epidemic time used to increase excise duties to prevent prices from falling below the euro per litre. Prices then liberalised and prices today are more than 50% higher than those then. Dear Prime Minister, with prices rising rapidly, citizens and citizens are in a desperate position. The choice between food and heating becomes a real dilemma for many Slovenian families and therefore requires immediate action by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Prime Minister Janez Janša for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words and for your questions for this debate as well. It is only topical, not only raising energy and food prices, but also everything else right now is one of the important issues not only with us and not only in Europe, but in fact on the entire planet. This is partly related to the so-called green transition, partly with a large amount of money printed for the so-called post-epidemic recovery. And most of this is the reasons that Slovenia cannot influence with its instruments, but some can. It is, however, necessary before we go deeper into this, and for that there will be more time later at the end of the debate than in these five minutes, to remind ourselves that things are not as simple as they have now been read here. For when it comes to propulsion fuels, these were not liberalised by this government, but were largely liberalised in spring 2016, including combustion oil, and only one small part remained unregulated. In addition, it is necessary to know that in the price of fuel, the base item represents the purchase of crude oil or basic energy and additionally varied levies, which are to a large extent of environmental importance. It is therefore necessary to decide whether to pursue climate objectives or to reduce these benefits; and then we can say good-bye to the high-flying words, the announcement of the climate crisis, which also comes from the same side, and so on. Margins that the government may partially influence with regulation represent 6-7 % of the price. And even if margins were to be abolished, which of course is not possible, this would not have a significant impact on the retail price of energy consumers. Partly by regulating and the government has acted on the margins for the fuel oil, where we have found that it is liftings that went beyond what was before deregulation. This measure has been adopted by the Government. Of course, the effects are not what anyone would expect. It is also a series of other elements to be taken into account in action. It is true that the European Commission has listed a number of things in a set of measures that can be taken and which are recommended, but at the same time the same document states that the situation in the various Member States of the European Union is different and that these measures can be applied in the light of the specific situation. Just mentioning what another country has done and we are not, does not say anything, because in the energy balance of the different Member States of the European Union there is a different structure. Incentives of energy at this time are far from being affected by wild natural gas and partly by oil. And the more you have in the structure of the production of electricity gas than the basic energy, the more they're resilient. In Slovenia, for the time being, thank God, they are not yet very high or are not practically available for direct customers when it comes to households. There will certainly be some withdrawals at the beginning of next year, given the end of the contracts and so on, the problem is greater for industrial consumers, and then the government will react. The working group, composed of State secretaries, has prepared a set of measures and the government will take them in the light of the situation it will take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Although the current situation in the energy market is serious, as described by the proponents, we are convinced in New Slovenia that it is still manageable. Government representatives have repeatedly stressed that they are monitoring the situation. And what we are most pleased about is that the government has in mind the most vulnerable groups in Slovenia and will, of course, take action if prices rise by the majority of suppliers on the market. With regard to electricity, Infrastructure Minister Jernej Vrtovec said that only one company had announced price increases so far, namely Petrol, which represents about 10% of the supply on the market. The Minister and also the President of the Government have made it clear that the stimulation of the electricity provided by Petrol is unjustifiable and extremely speculative. Both point out that there is no reason to be afraid in this case, as quick short-term measures are available primarily to address the distresses of the most vulnerable, such as pensioners, low-income workers and recipients of social assistance and a protection allowance. Also in line with the recommendations of the European Commission, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance, has prepared a proposal to provide financial assistance for the payment of increased energy costs to the most vulnerable groups. The first proposal is the introduction of a so-called energy voucher following the model of tourist vouchers to which the recipients of social assistance and a security allowance would be entitled, i.e. around 65,000 beneficiaries. However, the second proposal is that a single allowance of one quarter of the price for recipients of social assistance should be paid to the Ministry on the payment of social assistance, or a protective allowance, to which the Ministry of Finance is also more inclined, since it is easier to implement it from an implementing point of view. Both proposals provide the most vulnerable with funds for the payment of energy. Other persons whose income and assets exceed the threshold for obtaining financial social assistance may, however, apply to the Centre for Social Work for exceptional financial assistance due to the extraordinary costs incurred as a result of the increase in energy prices. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, it was explained that between 2021 and 2023, €266 000 will be spent on reducing energy poverty. From the Climate Change Fund, €90 000 is earmarked for this year and €88 000 is spent in 2022 and 2024. These funds are intended for socially weak citizens. Although price regulation sounds good, it's not a magic wand that can solve all the problems. disproportionate regulation, on the other hand, could also lead to problems with supply, economic non-competitiveness and, as a result, even greater social pressures. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we are convinced that if we want to replace all fossil energy, coal and if we want to be independent in the long term, then nuclear energy is the one we have to bet on and the European Commission is increasingly inclined. It is clear that in this situation the opposition likes to exploit this topic in public appearances. In a political sense, of course, we can understand this, but the government is not only responsible for its words, but also for each measure and also for the consequences of any action. In doing so, she must be careful not to take any disproportionate interventions into the energy market that could also have negative consequences. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that further investment in renewable energy sources is needed over the longer term. The Green Passage is by no means part of the problem, but part of the solution. There is no other way if we want to be energy independent and if we want to achieve all the goals we have set ourselves, especially climate. As Minister Jernej Vrtovec points out, more and more countries are taking the view that nuclear energy is also part of the solution. And this position is also advocated by Slovenia. This is our long-term energy path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Fellow Member and Fellow Members! Today's debate is undoubtedly welcome, and in the SAB Group we expect it to provide more concrete answers than was the case with the urgent meeting of the Infrastructure and Economy Committees, which discussed similar issues last week. Her course has disappointed us tremendously, and we believe that he has also disappointed people. As the main purpose of the emergency meeting last week, we saw only one thing in the SAB Group that we hear tangible responses and concrete measures from representatives of the Government that they have prepared in response to the admiring prices of energy. We wanted answers that would calm people down. And the same goes for today's agenda. To people who are already wondering whether to buy food or gasoline and who must weigh among the basic necessities of life, the state owes more than just ensuring that the solutions are at the door and that they will be implemented. The fact is that the European Commission presented a set of possible measures to the Member States in mid-October. The instruments are therefore in government hands and it is time for action. Enough talking about what the government could do, and it's time to move on to what it would do and when it would do it. High performances have been predicted for a long time. Today, 30% more expensive heating, 30% more expensive electricity, 30% more expensive gas tanks are no longer black-eyed forecasts, but harsh reality. No one denies that energy prices are also affected by developments in global markets, but this does not burden the government with responsibility to take care of the most vulnerable citizens and to use all the legal options that can be responded to. As an example, many members of the European Union and governments, which, unlike ours, have not been passive and have taken immediate steps at national level to mitigate the impact of harassment on the population and the economy and thus want to protect their citizens. Citizens who are not only making their lives more difficult than those mentioned above, but also the fact that they will not only be left with them. The rise in energy prices will and will also be reflected in the rise in the prices of basic living needs, services and raw materials. The measures decided by the countries were different. The reduction of VAT, energy vouchers for the most vulnerable parts of the company, the fixing of higher energy prices, the reduction of excise duties, if these are higher than the minimum set at European Union level, were only some of them. What about us? Only promises and predictions and no concrete solutions. At the already mentioned emergency meeting, State Secretary Kosorok has repeatedly stressed that the government has done a great deal of work and analysed the various data with possible measures. It's all good and good, but unfortunately, people don't have any of it yet. We were also extremely disturbed at the meeting by the use of an excuse for the pricing methodology that makes it impossible for the government to influence the latter. This seems unacceptable to us because the government has all the tools and the legal basis to reach exactly into this methodology. When the government found last year that monitoring of oil derivatives prices was no longer needed, however, it stressed that monitoring and analysis of price formation were still necessary. It was also pointed out at that time that in justified cases the government would also be able to apply the price control measure as envisaged and envisaged by the law. This is the price control law governing the control of prices of goods and services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which gives the government the possibility to regulate prices on the market, where the conditions are met. In the SAB Group, we therefore wonder when, if not now, the conditions for this will be met. Why are we witnessing the last few weeks, if not just the emergence of serious market disturbances in the price movement mentioned by the law? But the government remains passive. Except for the prices of the fuel oil, she didn't decide on the other procedures. In the SAB Group, we have tried to resolve the issue in a way that is possible for us as an opposition party. In the law on the implementation of budgets for 2022 and 2023, we have tabled an amendment which, if adopted, would oblige the Government to determine the prices of electricity, fuel, fuel and natural gas. The amendment to our great disappointment did not receive sufficient support. If Minister Restoration was completely wrong in predicting that consumers of liberalisation would not feel on their wallets, he was right about something that would start a new era with liberalisation. Indeed, we have stepped into a new era — an era of record energy prices and an era that will plunge people who have lived in distress before into even greater misery. And it is unacceptable that people have to feel this misery at a time when the money government is recklessly scattered to all ends and places. In less than two years, it has created €8 billion in deficits, but it does not find the money to help people who are in real trouble without delay. Even more disturbing is the fact that additional borrowing would not be necessary or would be necessary to a lesser extent if the government were to approach price regulation and limit their aversion. As mentioned, in the SAB Group, we expect from today's debate concrete answers to questions – when, to whom, in what amount, without evasiveness and environment. The answers to this question are not only for Members, but especially for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we will discuss the issue of rising prices of energy and other goods in Slovenia, which has a major impact on the individual, but most affected vulnerable groups that are already on the edge or even beyond the poverty threshold. Here we need to think again about the elderly, namely the pensioners and pensioners who belong to this group of the most vulnerable, so it was important for us in the Desus Group that we devote a little more time to this topic. The energy crisis has an impact on the production of practically all good, and it is therefore understandable to call for action and for short-term and systemic and long-term measures. We must be aware that the current situation in Slovenia is also due to developments in international energy markets. This is a specific phenomenon to be addressed collectively at the level of the European Union as a whole. For this reason, the European Commission has already issued a decision identifying the aid available to countries to assist people – from a reduction in duties to direct subsidies to people at risk. The Member States of the European Union are, as is said, linked to the common energy market. As a response to the current situation, Slovenia convened an extraordinary meeting of energy ministers, which took place on 26 October this year, seeking common solutions to protect citizens and citizens of the European Union from further drastic price increases. At the meeting, Member States were not united as to whether it would be reasonable to adopt specific intervention measures at the level of the European Union that would be uniform in all Member States and would therefore wait for further analyses before taking further decisions. In the meantime, the government has re-regulated the price of heating oil, and has also announced the possibility of introducing so-called energy vouchers. Further measures will be developed, following the assurance of the competent minister, depending on price developments in the future. Finally, it should be noted that, due to high electricity, heating oil and natural gas prices, citizens are serving cheaper sources of heating, such as heating on solid fuels. Unfortunately, households are often heated with outdated small combustion plants, which are the main source of PM10 particles in Slovenia and poor air quality. When we talk about energy poverty, we meet with outdated furnaces, poor isolation of houses and high energy consumption. The transition to cheaper and more environmentally friendly heating and energy rehabilitation of buildings, all of which is linked to high investment, which unfortunately many citizens cannot afford and are thus trapped in a vicious circle of poverty. In the Desus Group, we wish that because of the high prices of energy in any household, heating will not become questionable. We also hope that the price increase of other goods, including food, will be halted. Healthy food must not become a luxury, and as a result the pressure on health is increasing, and the consequences are once again felt by more vulnerable groups of our citizens and citizens. Therefore, we call on the Government to continue to monitor price developments closely and to take the necessary measures to protect against any, including energy poverty, where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u12	In recent weeks, we have seen exceptional situations in raw materials and energy markets where prices from day to day reach record high levels. This is due to the fact that global supply chains are partially broken and the waiting periods for raw materials have increased considerably. Companies are full of orders, demand is not running out, but there is no offer, which adds value to the sky. As a result, in Slovenia oil has become quite irritable, as we already feel at the gas pumps. The price of petrol and diesel increased by about a quarter according to the same period last year, which is also due to the government liberalisation of the oil derivatives market. At the time of adoption of the measure, the proposer of this measure, Mr Restoration, stressed that this would not in any way result in an increase in fuel prices. Absolutely not. But today it turns out that's not exactly the case. Also, at present, a good 25 % more should be deducted for the fuel oil than for the same period last year. The biggest Slovenian energy company Petrol will also increase the price of electricity by 12% in two weeks. Petrol was soon to be followed by other suppliers. In the wake of the health crisis, we are now facing an energy crisis that could have even worse consequences for some industries than the covida-19 epidemic. They are also aware of this in other European countries, so the issue of rising prices in the energy market has been dealt with immediately. Some countries have already decided to help citizens and citizens. The Spanish Government has reduced certain contributions, including taxes on electricity, France has helped socially disadvantaged households with special vouchers, Greece has been mitigating subsidies, as well as helping its citizens and citizens, and the majority of other European Union members are also promising businesses. The question is what we have done so far in Slovenia or what the government has done. Except for the reduction of excise duty on heating oil — nothing. We therefore call on the competent authorities to focus rather than on human resources fragmentation through energy on measures aimed primarily at citizens and citizens and businesses, rather than on the political exploitation of energy for the post-election period. Energy, however, represents the backbone of modern life and one of the pillars of national security. We therefore stress the importance of energy policy in the service of citizens' well-being and the foundation of a competitive economy. In doing so, it should be a key objective to promote environmentally sustainable energy solutions, secure and competitive energy supply and a low-carbon society, to which our country as a member of the European Union is, of course, committed. It is necessary to ensure that all citizens and citizens have available and affordable energy. In the situations in which we are in the field of energy today, we must ask ourselves what strategic measures we will strengthen and upgrade our country's energy resources in order to prevent a similar surge in energy prices in the future. We believe that the months ahead of us will make it clear that in the crisis each country can rely solely and solely on itself and that in such situations it is most safe to have its own resources. Therefore, it must be in the interests of our country to strengthen its own energy resources, as well as to adopt as much infrastructure as possible in our territory, whether it is gas pipelines and remotes or roads and railways. One day in the future, the time will come when all this will be right, and we must prepare for it now. We support today's debate on the issue of energy price growth. A list of permitted short-term measures has recently been published by the European Commission and can be used by Member States to mitigate the impact of high prices on final consumers. The measures include: financial support to vulnerable customers in the form of vouchers, the possibility of deferral of payment of invoices, the establishment of safeguard measures to avoid disconnections from the network, temporary reduction of tax rates and assistance to businesses or sectors affected by this growth. We certainly welcome such measures, but point out that medium- and long-term measures should also be identified that would contribute to affordable energy for households and businesses and increase energy independence. The resilience of the European energy market, security of energy supply and the transition to climate neutrality must also be strengthened. By introducing modern technologies and measures in industry, using energy-efficient household appliances, energy renovating old buildings, building new ones where energy will be provided as much as possible from renewable sources, we can significantly reduce energy consumption. This will also reduce greenhouse gas emissions and, at personal level, contribute to managing the cost of living while maintaining the quality of our stay. To conclude, Slovenia has a number of sources of financing for energy projects for the implementation of the green transition in the coming years. The funds will be made available from the European Cohesion Policy, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, from the Fund for a Fair Transition and the React Initiatives, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore calling for projects to draw on these financial resources to be implemented quickly, efficiently and with a view to exploiting all the resources available in our country, as this is essential for a successful transition to cleaner energy sources and a healthier living environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u14	Dear Prime Minister, I think it's right to discuss such important issues. I believe you don't care that energy prices have changed in such a fast time. I hope that today’s views, whether good or bad, will bear fruit. Currently, in Slovenia, covid-19 dust and energy prices are the highest. It is sad that, despite European and global forecasts of energy rise, the government has only now seen the need to do something in this area. Just months ago, when it was crystal clear that the prices of living needs in September 2021 rose by 2.4% on average on an annual basis, we are only talking about how to proceed in November. It's too late, because the price of the energy has attracted all sorts of things. Wages remain the same all the time, and service prices have risen, craftsmen have raised prices, prices have gone up in shops, restaurants, it is said everywhere, even at checkouts. It's more expensive fuel. I'm tanking twice a week, and lately the bill for full tank is getting higher. If I'm not mistaken, fuel prices in Austria are lower. Slovenia should be in the interest of having lower fuel prices than neighbouring countries. This would indirectly fill the Slovenian budget. Foreigners who would refuel at our place would spend their money in our shops and inn. Now some Slovenian citizens are crossing the border, shopping, and so forth, such as drinking and singing. Last September, when we were still paying the euro for a litre of fuel, the government decided to leave excise duties in the hands of tenderers. We had already warned in the Slovenian National Party that this was a very bad move and that in the end the consumer would draw the shortest. After a year, the government only understood the error and began to control excise duties again with November. I wonder if I would have done so even if the European Commission had not given guidance to the Member States. The European Commission has thus again given us some guidance on how to deal with rising energy prices. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that it should follow the needs of citizens and measures to adapt to the Slovenian people, not to the dictatorship of the European Union. Are we going to lower taxes because the European Commission said so? Are we going to grant subsidies to businesses because the European Commission has said so? Are we going to give people energy pups because the European Commission has said so? Now, on the order of the European Commission, we dance as they play. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support the government's reregulation of excise duties. We even suggest that he coordinate them every 14 days. We have nothing against energy wafers, because it is crystal clear from the very beginning that energy prices, production and supply are strongly interlinked. Increasing prices will only lead to shortages and ultimately to global shortages. I mean not only technical products and home products, which suppliers and manufacturers already report, but also food shortages. We should do more in all areas, not just in the field of energy. In Slovenia, more than half of the population still enjoys wood products, namely wood, pellets and briquettes. We do not have a regulated tax in this area, as the sellers themselves have warned us. Who's the one who's hurt in the end, I don't need to talk. For this reason, we have also taken the initiative in the Slovenian National Party to regulate this tax on wood, heating; and we hope that we will also be heard. As a result of the European Commission's orders last year, we should not have taken care of Slovenian producers and producers and should have placed most Slovenian products on trade shelves. So we imported from abroad, and our dairy and fruit and vegetable growers threw their products in the trash. It is time to take care of the welfare of the Slovenian people independently of the European Union and finally start taking measures that will actually help our people. It's time for us to stop bickering and compete over who can live with less money. It's clear that in about a month we'll all be typing key words again in 1919 for families so they won't freeze. The underlying crisis has also brought crisis in other areas, and it is not necessary to start dealing with it here and now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u16	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša and his co-worker, the colleague is not a colleague! It is much easier in life to ask questions than to give answers. Let me present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the question of a fellow Member from the SD Group Bojana Muršič on the energy crisis in the Republic of Slovenia. When I was preparing myself for this position yesterday, I asked myself many questions that I couldn't get all the answers to. In short, let me point out two main factors for encouraging energy, fuel and fuel prices – a unilateral increase in natural gas prices due to lower flows to Europe and an increase in coal prices due to China's increased coal demand for electricity consumption. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will soon enter this mandate in the fourth winter, on 21 December. I remember the winter of 2020 – January 20. It's snowing. It was a lot colder than it was today. At that time, the then President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, resigned and said: I am walking on the ground, people are exposing me to problems, problems, and I cannot solve them with this government. Two experienced policies at the time in the coalition, Mrs Alenka Bratušek said this: We have done nothing in the field of health. Experienced policy mags. But Dejan Jedhan said that the easiest thing to do was to leave all the problems behind. That's what happened to us in this term. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are certainly aware of the rise in energy prices both in petrol stations and in all households in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me remind you that in September, 20th and 21st, the European Commissioner for Energy visited Slovenia. During that visit, she was also in the National Assembly and, of course, gave us one frightening message that more than 33 million people in the European Union cannot pay the heating bill. Surely this percentage is also present in our beautiful land. When I was preparing for this position, of course, I was also looking for answers that this year is not from last year. And I am very pleased that this issue comes to this National Assembly by the parties of the Group of Social Democrats, which has been a history in this National Assembly and has been a government party since 2013. I don't know if you've ever noticed, you've ever deepened into the fact that a lot of salesmen who sell these energy products get a bonus to minimum wage. But it's not since last year, it's not since last year, it's not since last year, it's not from this term, it's been many years. Have you ever wondered that? It is unreasonable to me that pensioners who have worked fairly for 40 years have paid taxes, contributions, and today they do not even hope to say that they are cold because they watch over every cent. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is not from this year, this is not from last year, this is not from this term, this has happened before. As I said at the outset, it is much easier to ask questions than to find quality answers. I have in mind this year's winter coming; it will soon be December 21st. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this winter will be one of the more difficult in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. This difficult winter can only be saved together, with solidarity in the National Assembly, both coalitions and opposition, of course, together with the government. However, because we are talking about the problems of those who will not be able to buy energy, who will not be able to pay the bills, I thank the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Government, the ministers that they have prepared everything that is necessary for people not to suffer while winter is not yet. Our common goal is to find those who do not knock on the door of social institutions who do not grieve the neighbor, Karitas or the Red Cross. In short, this government has prepared solutions both with money, energy vouchers and social assistance — with a protective supplement. This is important. Today is still autumn, and I invite you to come together before this difficult winter and look for solutions for all those who have chosen us outside this National Assembly. Let me touch those vendors who are very nice every time you come to the pump, they also have to watch out for every cent. If they miss one cent in the evening when they finish their job, they have to give it out of their wallet. But I call on you, when we look with our eyes at individuals in the Republic of Slovenia, for all of history, when they spend and spend the common money on us, to also point to those with our finger, name and surname — no matter where we are, whether we are in the coalition or in the opposition — to answer for their actions and to return that money to where they took it. If we succeed in the future, the spring coming for this winter will be warmer, brighter, and people will be less cold in the winter. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u18	Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! As early as 2020, we in the LMŠ, together with the opposition, drew attention to the threat of full liberalisation of energy prices by the current government. Today we can see that we were right. Diesel fuel is more expensive in a good year for 47%, 95% for 34% for gas and 44% for fuel. At the press conference on 14 October this year, the Minister of Infrastructure stated, quote: “No panic is necessary, the situation in Slovenia regarding the energy market is stable. At the same time, I would like to reassure citizens about the price of electricity and gas, we are on the safe side." I must say that we were surprised at this statement in the LMŠ, and I believe that our surprise is shared by citizens and representatives of the economy. Let me just give you one case. The price of electricity for household consumers with all taxes was 23 % higher in the second quarter of 2021 than in the second quarter of 2020. And in the first half of 2021, the annual electricity price among all EU countries rose by 15%. Why is this information important? If we look at the structure of the use of energy in households, we find that they represent the largest share of electricity and the combustion environment. The first, as mentioned above, was petrified at annual level by 15% and the fuel oil by 44%. Minister Vrtovac's optimism is not shared by the European Commission, which is already 13. 10. issued a wide range of possible measures to assist in the energy crisis. In particular, the European Commission stresses the need for a rapid response from Member States. Thus, already in October 2021, several Member States of the European Union adopted measures to tackle rising energy prices. Some Slovenian energy providers have already announced price increases that will affect many Slovenian families, especially those who already face difficulties in paying energy bills and need help. It is important to know that before the energy crisis broke out, 32 000 households faced energy poverty and 254,000 people lived below the poverty risk threshold. Thus, on the one hand, we have already existing and potentially new increases in energy prices, rising food prices, rising prices of services, and on the other hand more than stagnation of wages. It should also be borne in mind that the co-vid crisis has further reduced real income to a certain part of the population. The only action taken so far by the Government is the adoption of a Regulation on the pricing of petroleum derivatives, which entered into force on 9 November 2021, which limits the margin of traders in the sale of fuel oil. In view of all that is stated in the LMŠ, we estimate that today's debate is still necessary, and we appeal to the government to prepare and present a set of measures that will at least ease and better prevent the energy poverty of citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will last present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Then get ready for the debate, Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Hello, Prime Minister, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! It is clear from at least the month of September or August that both in Slovenia and in the European Union fuel and energy prices are rising, rising and flying to the sky. As a result, of course, energy poverty is inevitable unless the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia acts. We are aware of this great problem by the Social Democrats, so at our previous meeting of the National Assembly, we have asked the President of the Government a question and at the same time an initiative for the government to move forward and do something to prevent these catastrophic consequences that energy poverty would bring us into. The President of the Government, with his reply to the Members and Members, has not convinced us, so we are here again today and we are once again having a debate on this same topic. In the meantime, too, we have been active in the democratic opposition. We've called as many as two board meetings, asked the ministers, organized various other councils. But unfortunately the government has done nothing or have done little fighting all this time. You have announced, Prime Minister of the Government, otherwise the introduction of energy vouchers to help the most vulnerable, but nothing has been done since the announcement of the good month. Second thing, you recycled five years ago a law on the regulation of fuel oil. This law entered into force only a week ago, and it is said to be far too late. But all the time you, Prime Minister of the Government, as ministers and ministers of this government, in particular the economic minister, who has been the main author of this fuel price deregulation for many years, have advocated that fuel liberalisation is a positive measure and that liberalisation has not led to an increase in prices. Respected and respected, all the birds on the branches have been chirping that after a good year of deregulation of fuel prices, this thesis has not been true. Compared to fuel prices, mainly petrol and diesels, the last year has risen by more than 30%, almost 40%. You will say, of course, yes, because prices went up in global markets. That's all there is to it. Not so much, Prime Minister. And if in 2009, 2008 prices were even higher in global markets, such as today, we did not pay as high fuel prices in Slovenia. And, with respect and respect, we hear from the government all the time that there is no crisis yet, that there is no time for alarm and panic. We say the opposite in the opposition. All the alarms in Slovenia are already ringing. In addition to the co-existence of the crisis, the employment of energy poverty should be one of the key if not the most important topics in the Republic of Slovenia. We do not want our citizens and citizens to spend the winter in the cold because they have no money to buy fuel. We do not want our citizens and citizens not to be able to drive to and from work in the face of catastrophic public transport. A respected government, a respected Prime Minister of the Government, you claim that there is no time for alarms and panic. I invite you, just as I did at the board meeting last week, where you, a respected coalition, rejected all conclusions. I call on you, there are no votes today, but it is time to discuss and perhaps an agreement, and I urge you to do something. We should have done it yesterday. To do something to prevent this severe energy poverty and hardship of citizens and citizens. Make use of all the energy you use to recruit energy companies wildly, to try to cope with this energy crisis with as few victims as possible. Once again, the crisis is global, we did not create it. But it is up to us to try to get through it by, above all, getting through the most vulnerable things in some way by helping them not to have to spend the winter in the cold or to give up other essential goods in order to be able to warm up. Dear Prime Minister, it's up to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first word is "proposer."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you again! I must say that I thank all the parliamentary groups for their views. It has been made clear that today we are talking about an extremely important issue. But today is not the first time we are talking about this issue, but unfortunately for the third time. It would make sense, therefore, that we finally not only speak and listen but also hear. When the Prime Minister of the Government mentioned that the government would monitor the situation, yes, in the very case that I told you about the regulation of the margin on heating oil, it was clear that if we had done so earlier, citizens and citizens could save at least €116 per thousand litres of heating oil. And certain people are really in a lot of trouble. And when you mentioned that motor fuels were liberalized in the spring, yes, partly true, but on 23 September 2020. At its 33rd regular session, this Government adopted information on the situation on the markets in petroleum derivatives and found that the price control measure after the expiry of the existing regulation regulating the price of 95-octane petrol and diesel fuel outside motorways and fast roads is no longer necessary. This was on September 23, 2020, just before the second wave of the covid crisis. It is also interesting that there is already Minister Restoration in the Ministry of the Economy in the third government. If you had any interest, if you'd listened to people, if you'd seen what was going on in the field, it wouldn't have come to that, and you would have intervened in these matters sooner. The new Slovenia stressed and also pointed out what measures could then help citizens and citizens. Although I expected the President of the Government to point to this, well, I still kind of accept it. Energy vouchers. Yes, in principle we can say – super, fine, energy vouchers, but these are energy vouchers for 65,000 beneficiaries, that is to say the most vulnerable, who have cash social assistance and a security allowance. But, Mr. President of the Government, it is important to realize that they are not just and only you at the stroke, these most vulnerable groups. It should be noted that 250,000 citizens and citizens live below the poverty line. These too are extremely remarkable at impact. Two spouses who receive a minimum wage and have two school-bound children simply cannot pay the costs of this energy, and then it begins to happen that food is being auctioned, the costs in school are rising. And simply people are on the verge of despair, people knocking on the door, and it just won't work. Although there was a speech that they could apply for extraordinary social assistance if they found themselves in distress. Yes, because this is also absolutely true, but vulnerable groups do not only have problems with chicken, but they also have a problem with these household appliances, which only after a certain period of cancellation and need to be bought. And as far as I'm aware of social work centers, most of these groups are looking for help for these larger household appliances that are a little bit more expensive. Maybe the washing machine, the washing machine is urgently needed today. I don't know if we're gonna start washing our hands again, like the old days. Then we have a variety of other things, and even the refrigerator is urgently needed today, and for these things people are taking extremely much money social assistance. And then they'll hesitate again, or they'll take the heat, or they'll decide to buy a new household appliance. There's a lot of questions here. Indeed, more than 250,000 people live below the poverty line, and this must be listened to and thought about by this group. I have to say mainly, as my colleague Podkoršek said it is easier to ask questions, but the answers are very difficult to ask. But the government is in favour of having answers to questions and answering them and also taking appropriate action. If I also touch on the fact that we have already prepared two meetings on this issue where we have proposed certain matters, these conclusions that we have proposed have been immediately rejected by the coalition. Let me tell you some banal things. One decision was to set up an expert group to prepare an analysis of the situation with a set of possible measures and a timeline. I don't understand that the coalition didn't support this. [[advertising from the hall]] I mean, it's almost impossible for the President of the Government, because you'll have time to say the same. [[…]] What is wrong with this measure? Perhaps here, President of the Government, we could be answered as to what is wrong with this decision. Notwithstanding the fact that this already imposes on you the Price Control Act, in Article 6, paragraph 2, to prepare an analysis of the situation. I don't know where we are, whether we have some state-of-the-art analysis, whether we're taking all the measures or you're taking ad hoc, I don't know. Then, based on the analysis, it should take appropriate measures within a month to protect and control electricity, fuel and fuel prices. I don't even know here what the problem is that it wasn't adopted at the time. I really don't know, because if these things were already adopted, we would be even easier to talk today, absolutely, because we would know what was done. And I just don't understand the coalition again at this point. The Committee also proposed that priority should be given to helping consumers and households affected by energy poverty in planning intervention measures. And here, too, I just don't know what's wrong, that it's not to support; and somehow today we'd already know a lot more. We know we have to help these groups. Then, also, the decision proposed to supplement the budget to provide additional resources for action in the coming months in budget 2022. Because I believe that the government will sooner or later come to the conclusion that it will be necessary to help these groups who will simply face a dilemma or to warm up the apartment if we are just heating up or buying food. The Committee also proposed to adopt systemic measures for green transition and to include the prevention of energy poverty. I really don't know why these conclusions were slightly rejected by the coalition, because I believe that these conclusions would be one step further. The government would have a certain matter at the table and would also have acted significantly easier. Yeah, yeah, we're looking for solutions, let's step in together, but let's just stop talking, let's talk, let's talk about what's going on, because we're running out of time. People have to have a warm apartment and electricity running today. I would really like to ask you, President of the Government, which measures and which sectors of the economy are most affected, to respond. And on what professional grounds and reasons will you take action? And once again, please tell me, what sets of concrete measures are available to you? But the rest is below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Just for a little while on some things that aren't right. As far as those conclusions you quoted are concerned. The government did it all. As far as a fair transition is concerned, not only does the government deal with this at European Union level, we are working on this, we have designed the Just Transition Fund, which is an instrument for addressing these problems. And there are funds available for this and Slovenia or will use them. This government has not liberalised fuel prices except in a small part. You liberalised the prices of motor fuels in 2016 when you were socially democratically strong in the government. You have liberalized all prices, including the prices of heating oil, with the exception of diesel, 95-octane gasoline on highways. Only this remained regulated and this was liberalised last year, by re-regulation of the margins of the combustion oil. You liberalized it, not us. It is interesting, however, how some parties who consider themselves liberal today advocate a hundred percent regulation for this speaker; not you, but some others, so it is full of nonsense. It also makes no sense that when diesel prices were liberalised last October and 95 octane gasoline on motorways, prices in retail sales were increased by 47%, as one representative of the parliamentary group said. The margins represent 6-7% of the prices; all the rest is the price of the basic raw material plus other taxes, including environmental taxes. Liberalisation with a 47% increase has nothing or where we have found that it contributed little to the rise, as with the fuel oil, we have put the regulation back in place. Inaccuracies were also full of cases when it was announced what other countries had done. The fact that the European Commission proposed this set of measures is also our thanks because we pressured it to do so, but the main reason was not what was happening in Slovenia or what is still happening in Slovenia at the moment, but what was happening in Spain and in some other countries where long-term gas contracts and new contracts were four times more costly. And it immediately poured into the price of heating, including industrial production, and consequently into a drastic price jump. And there was a drastic price jump. The measures in this set cannot be the same where some things were raised by 400 percentage points and where they were raised by 30. And it also clearly says that, because you're all talking about something that you probably never read, it's a document that's all of it. Talking about 254,000 people living in Slovenia below the poverty line. This is a statistical data that is based on average income. This income in Slovenia is on average more than 60% higher than in Croatia, but is equally categorised; or is smaller than those in this category in Luxembourg, because this is a statistical data that does not say anything about the actual situation, says only something about the distribution of the available income per capita. The fuel, petrol, diesel and pre-deregulation margins in Slovenia covered 76% of the European average, 63% of the European average, and 51% of the European average for fuel oil, far below what others had. Now, in fact, the reasons for the stimulation of energy are mainly in three groups. There is something or something to be said for a serious discussion on this subject. One is natural causes, we had drought in Europe, we had little wind in northern Europe, it was longer winter than the average in most of Europe, which all increased energy consumption while reducing the production of energy from so-called renewable sources, from water and wind. Some measures of the so-called green transition or transition to a carbon-free society have been put in place. Here some of the additional dilemmas that still exist with regard to taxation or so-called taxonomy have increased these dilemmas in energy, because if you do not know how much tax will be paid, then you do not invest in these sources. The economy reacts to the situation as it is; and this has not helped and still does not help in this situation. Here are the underlying dilemmas as to whether natural gas and nuclear energy will be included in the green section of the transition or the carbon part of the transition or unsustainable. It depends on what the benefits, what the price and the resulting investment will be and how Member States look for a solution in their national balance sheets. On the other hand, energy consumption increased at the time of recovery after the epidemic. The European Union has, in its own words, printed a lot of money, even more printed by the United States, China is still doing so. At the moment, virtually all the gas stocks on the market, China is buying at prices that it does not even ask. As much as they want, so much as they do. This, of course, affects the supply of other markets. China also buys all available coal supplies. Given that half of the country has had cuts and wages, no matter what the price, where money is printed, is more or less, it is not possible to predict that the situation will improve significantly by the end of winter. We could say that we do not know what will happen next month; but I must say that we know mainly that this situation will not improve significantly and that we need to count on a difficult winter when it comes to energy supply and even when it comes to prices. Discussions and coordination are currently taking place at European level, as well as discussions on how to deal with further taxes on non-electric cars and on energy consumption. If the two are not taxed, then this will have an additional impact on the precious. I hope that we will be able to convince the fundamentalists here who are talking about the climate crisis and who want to announce it and so forth that it has its price and must decide whether this transition will work in a sustainable, sustainable and just way; or whether we will be happy to show the whole world a good number in Europe, while Europe emits only 8% of all greenhouse gases, and in the end we will destroy our industry and impoverish the population. Keep this in mind when you take two contradictory directions in the same performances. When it comes to a concrete problem which should have led to this debate, the government has set up a working group before you have adopted this decision, which is monitoring this situation and which has also proposed measures to be taken. When it comes to energy vouchers or vouchers, they will be introduced, but in addition to deciding to introduce them, we need to know roughly what the rest of the frameworks are, to whom, and how much. I hope that the budgetary debate will be productively concluded and that these frameworks will be adopted. But as for the question, to whom, we can only use the instruments we have. Speaking of the 250,000 who live below the poverty line, absolutely nothing says anything about energy poverty. It's just an empty demagogy and everyone who gives this number needs to know how to get it. When it comes to heating and electricity costs, we can help and help the most vulnerable group; we just need to know at least an approximate scale so that we do not deal with this every week. As far as some of the other measures you mentioned are concerned, let's say the ban on disconnecting the vulnerable and so on; this already exists for us, these instruments are in place for us. With us, you can't turn off the power to someone if it endangers their health or their lives and so on. In the case of motor fuels, which are the only ones you can tell where the numbers are larger than one year ago, it is necessary to know that, first of all, one year ago, oil prices on the world market were negative. Oil producers paid additional funds to those who were buying oil at the time because the consumption was low in order to dispose of the quantities consumed. Today, for these reasons, this situation is completely reversed. And here the solutions that the government has in hand are not in the freeze of margins, because this is a minimal thing, although we will also do so when we find out or when the regulator finds out that this is being used. If we stop the margins, what happens? Those who sell petrol on pumps will no longer sell it because it won't pay off. This isn't some miracle thing, and you're not getting anything. But of course, it's a maneuverable space in taxes. We can lower taxes. Will you vote in favour of reducing VAT and environmental duties on fuel? Only this means that there will be a hole in the budget and that money will not be for many other things that vulnerable groups also need. And you need to be judged here. However, there is room for manoeuvre because benefits, including environmental benefits, are probably around half of the price of fuel. And, of course, I think there's still quite a lot of reserves here in the energy community. When we read about the enormous salaries and awards of directors of state energy companies flying into the sky and the luxury ads that we are monitoring and the attempts to privatise state energy companies, and when such mandates are not extended, scream – we are all Robert Golob. A really socially endangered category, I have to say, at 500,000 euros a year's salary. I'm sure there are some other reserves here that may or may not make the impressions smaller. Now you must decide whether you are all Robert Golob now, whether you are those who are socially at risk because of these high prices. It's not gonna work either way. And I have to say, by the way, I haven't met a poor social democrat in 30 years. It's a little too demagogic sometimes, which is what we're listening to here. But there is another problem that is only partially mentioned. This is also a reflection of other goods, including food. And when we talk about how much money is spent to alleviate the pressure of energy, we need to be aware that this is not the only problem coming to the table, and that we need to leave some reserves for everything else. We'll talk about this. The government will act. The measures will be as effective as there will be less demagogies in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is running out of time, so it looks like he doesn't want to talk to me anymore, but nothing about it. I just want to say that the liberalisation has indeed been done by Minister Restoration, who then deceived the public as well as the partners, that competition will do its part, that nothing is going on and that nothing is going on. If the minister was deceiving previous governments at the time, he was also deceiving you. That's just something to be pointed out. I am also pleased that you have also mentioned that the reduction of taxes, of course, also takes the State's means of action. I am glad that you are aware of this too, for this will be very much on the table in the future in the preparation of any laws. I do not want to criticize anything today, we wanted to rule as quickly as possible, because the time here is really what we must all take into account together. The late action will have an unfathomable impact, and when prices rise, it will bring them back to some level extremely difficult, or I will say so, it will not be done at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We are talking about a possible set of measures that would alleviate, in general, dear. Darling, as far as energy is concerned — both oil derivatives, electricity, gas. And we hear in the middle of the debate, of course, about how it was when Sharča's government stepped down, what I think the current state of energy prices really doesn't have much to do with, or how the opposition likes to discuss it. Of course, no one likes to discuss it. But we're worried. It is concerned that from the government, both from the President of the Government, we have now heard, as well as from the ministers responsible for this area, especially Minister Počvalšek and Vrtovac, we hear – we are monitoring the situation, monitoring the situation and reacting when the time is right. Yeah, it's about time. Actually, it's time. The Minister of Economic Affairs, with this truly enormous increase in oil derivatives, is always afraid that if the government intervenes in any way in this area, we will run out of petrol, oil, and fuel oil; and makes a comparison with a situation in the previous country, that is, more than thirty years ago. And he says that, if necessary, the government, after analysing the margins of oil traders, will once again take a decision on the temporary regulation of margins, as we have already heard and we all know that the regulation of margins will not have an obvious impact on the price of oil derivatives. It also says that we cannot afford to influence — and we do not have leverage — the prices of oil derivatives that are the result of the price of crude oil on the world market. I believe that, of course, Slovenia cannot influence the price of crude oil on the world market. But what's interesting is what speculators are, both suppliers and traders. And that what is happening to us now in the field of oil derivatives prices is the result of, above all, express speculation; since there is no shortage of oil on the world market, we do not have this data, no one has reduced the amount of extraction. And what will be in the eyes is the retail price – if I now restrict myself to Slovenia – of oil derivatives, which has now exceeded the level of the period around 2008, 2009. But there was 120 dollars of oil on the world market. Now the retail prices of oil derivatives have exceeded those of more than ten years ago, and the price of oil on the world market is $80. What an enormous difference! The retail price is higher than it was then. That is why, of course, it is in the hands of suppliers and traders to serve, to serve speculatively at the expense of all of us, and to make an excuse for the epidemic. And if the impact on the margin is really so negligible, on the other hand, the instrument is the reduction of tax rates and excise duties on energy, not only on oil derivatives. This is an instrument the government can use. Nor is it true that the release of the liberalisation of oil prices last year was so minor that it has no significant impact. Of course, it had a large and significant impact because prices of 95-octane gasoline and diesel were released on petrol stations outside highways, which means that in total sales, of course, the left share. And the government could certainly reach out to this area, but we hear that it is still necessary to wait for further analysis, while the European countries – now the Prime Minister of the Government here only cited Spain with some 400% of the gas irritation, but not only Spain has introduced certain measures that mitigate the consequences of this expensiveness, far from it. Other European countries, some have also decided to reduce the tax rate on fuel fuels. They also decided on such a measure; neighbouring Croatia froze the prices of oil derivatives. That the government could not act in this area, of course, is not true. However, a certain will is required. As far as electricity prices are concerned, Minister Vrtovec said that prices will not rise this year, and we are just before the end of the year. Yeah, this year. What about next year? But electricity prices are already rising in Slovenia and in the last year they have risen most in the European Union by 15%. Minister Vrtovec says you don't agree with any regulatory instruments in this area. On the other hand, Minister Restoration says that electricity is the easiest regulation to make, not so easy, but the easiest regulation. And he believes that we will do our best if necessary. When will it be necessary? I'm asking you when it's gonna be necessary. We'll do everything one day. The only measure so far, as far as electricity prices are already growing and will obviously be even more so in the coming months, is the replacement of electricity directors. That's what we saw. If this is going to lower or maintain electricity prices at this level, I don't know, but for now we only know about an exchange of directors with whom, of course, this government has nothing. And, of course, the Minister of Infrastructure has nothing to do with this. Will the shepherds be the ones who will alleviate the social distress caused by the irritation of energy? Yes, they are possible as a possible partial measure, but there should certainly be reflection in adapting tax rates and excise duties to energy. If I tell you how far-reaching the heating across Slovenia is, or if so, for example, the sheepdogs will be able to alleviate social distress. In Trobys, for example, remote heating at the annual level, if someone had an account of EUR 370, it is auctioned at EUR 560. For example, warm water – from € 110 to € 166 per year. These are enormous numbers that will, of course, cause social problems. And that is why, of course, it was our desire to learn from the government how and what it intends to do in these situations, and so the word relationship “following the situation” does not seem to be enough at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The third session is today, where we are essentially discussing the same issue. Twice a joint committee meeting, and today again on this issue. What does that tell us? This tells us that the situation in the country is serious, that we, Members and Members of Parliament, are facing people in distress, and here we are listening to the disclosure of the President of the Government, from whom I expected today to come with some concrete action. I'd be incorrigible if I didn't say hello to what they did about the burning oil. Whether it was too fast or too late, it doesn't make sense to waste time, is what it is; but given the number of other instruments the government has in hand, it could intervene at these rising energy prices, especially in the light of the burning season in which we have already fared. The Prime Minister of the Government said in those five minutes he had given us that a certain increase in heating would likely occur at the beginning of next year when the contracts for the purchase of energy prices would expire. This is a cycle that is repeated every year, but it will not come until January, respected colleagues and colleagues, the impressions are today and here, whether we like it or not. I would not be discussing today the reasons that have led to what is happening on the energy prices market. For this I am neither competent nor competent, but I think that more or less well took them in his presentation also by the President of the Government, but we are here to point out that we have one group of people in distress who need help. My predecessor mentioned a little earlier today, and I have an office in Hrastnik and also in Trbovje. In Hrastnik there is heating of heat, I will tell you that I will not discuss any trends in energy markets, but specifically what people have problems with. In Hrastnik is Petrol's greenhouse, a 30 per cent rise of Petrol is announced, and this month is not yet, in Trbovje, over the hill, but there is an even more alarming picture. They have a 57% increase in heating prices. 57%. I think my buddy Rudy even put that percentage in numbers in front of me. In short, people are afraid. Fear, because simply a population with the lowest incomes of these enormous lifts will not be able to. This was the main reason why both meetings were convened and probably the purpose of the colleague who opened up this issue, which is also the reason for this meeting today. The government has also received some concrete proposals. I read a letter from the Slovenian Consumers Association, signed by several NGOs. There were some very concrete proposals, which are all within the power of the government and can act. However, I find it extremely, highly respected colleagues and colleagues, underestimating that the President of the Government has told me today that the data of 250,000 people living below the poverty line did not tell me that this information is merely a demagogic. That's sad. If 620 euros, such as the lowest pension, is demagogies, are probably also in this category right here, but it is true that this is a data that is not proud of any government, nor should the previous one be that we have brought a generation of pensioners who are essentially waiting for help to survive from month to month, and on the Red Cross where else. Today, however, the situation is frozen by the radiators we have mounted. The government can get data from the controllers, you will see, you would be surprised how much spending is in some — zero. They only pay for that connecting power because it just doesn't work out. And the question is, are you going to warm up in the morning or are you going to eat in the afternoon? This is not demagogy, it is unfortunately a cruel reality of many pensioners, pensioners and others who are socially weak. I am pleased that colleague Podkorjek of SDS, the largest government party, said that we have a difficult winter ahead of us. That's why he's asking us to come together. Sure. We have pointed out our part of the opposition's work to the problems that are the problem in this country. Now it is your turn, a respected coalition, to act in any way. I don't care if you call it boni, sheepdogs, whatever. Keep in mind that people are hard to live. If in last April many pensioners, when we talk about this population, have looked at each other a little bit and doubtless asked why they received the supplement 14 days after the epidemic was declared, I am talking about those candy governments for groups that have not yet been threatened, and today – whether they are vouchers, such as they are, or otherwise, they urgently need them. Therefore, the well-respected coalition, act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. At the outset of my debate, I would first like to respond to the two information that has emerged in the debate so far, and then I will continue to analyse the situation of rising energy prices and the measures that would be necessary to replace this. So the first two responses. Prime Minister Janez Janša has linked the issue of addressing energy poverty and opposition calls to the government, but proactively, to the issue of reducing emissions and responding to the climate crisis, namely, his argument of relativising the gravity of the climate crisis – czech, see, Europe creates only 8% of global releases, what we will do to destroy our economy if we contribute so little; and that we, in the opposition, are the ones who have to decide whether we are on the side of energy poor households or whether we are on the side of climate resolution. It was kind of a commie he threw on the air. It must be said here immediately that yes, statistically at this point in time, the European Union or Europe is actually responsible for 8% of the emissions that drive climate damage, but at the expense of its own industry, which it has outsourced to third world countries. And the statistics of the third world countries show these releases, and the final products produced in these factories are used in Europe or within the European Union. To say that we basically don't contribute to global releases, if it's only 8%, it just doesn't hold, as soon as we're doing a little digging into the situation. It is quite perverse, however, that the issue of climate change is being resolved on the part of the poor in this country, which is also a silent assumption which Prime Minister Janez Janša raised in his reply. They're not the poor who drive the climate. Capitalism is the one that drives climate breaking and far the most discharges are produced by the rich, either as large legal persons, corporations, including the military industrial complex, or as individuals. The second response I would like to highlight is the issue of deregulation itself. The logic of deregulation of fuel fuels, petroleum derivatives and immediately forwards, leaving everything to the market, the state to intervene as little as possible, is the common point of the political class and the leitmotiv of the measures that are now taking place over three governments. And this is where Prime Minister Janez Janša truthfully said that it wasn't them or just them that was deregulation. The deregulation, at least part of the fuel deregulation, had already taken place under the government of Mir Cerar, and then continued under the government of Marjan Šarc. The common point of all these last three governments in this area is Minister Restovalšek, who has apparently successfully led his deregulation agenda for oil corporations and suppliers through three governments. And the consequences they face today are rising levels of energy poverty. To understand each other, policies of deregulation, privatisation policies are not something that is any kind of exclusive within our country. This is the logic of the progress of global capitalism in recent decades in the entire developed West, and it has led in the latter part to the fact that we are sitting today at a meeting where we are talking about how energy prices fly to the sky and how people in this country suffer and that they can hope for a difficult winter because they will not be considered to be hot. But where did this sublime phenomenon of rising energy prices come from? As soon as we know that the cost of energy production has not really been undermined, we need to look for reasons in the organisation of production and supplies that clearly allow someone to cut a much larger piece of cake than they did in the past in this instant; and the consequences of the transfers to households and the rest of the economy in the form of higher margins, i.e. higher prices for consumers. It is true that we can start this discussion and explore the problem, says – yes, the prices of energy in global markets have risen, but instead of treating the functioning of global markets as something that is healthy for sure, we must take this into question. The market organisation of energy supply at both production and distribution levels is at the heart of this problem. If the cost of energy production has not increased on the one hand, on the other hand the price has risen sharply, but between one and the other is the market – what is the problem? Yeah, I'm that square. This market organisation, based on past decades of deregulation and privatisation, is itself a problem. Simply some subsidy measures are not sufficient for this. It is not enough for a state with public money to issue so-called energy vouchers to all citizens and citizens. It is imperative that poor people be helped here and now. The core of the problem will not solve this, because it is really just a matter of subsidising energy corporations and nothing else. The same applies to the cutting of excise duties and other forms of deregulation, such as the withdrawal of the country from the determination of energy prices. In the short term and here and now I can – I can say this – because it is not necessary to – help poor households and people suffering from energy poverty, but at the end of the day it is basically again to subsidise productive and supply energy corporations that have directed and organised rising energy prices. What we should therefore do is to organise ourselves within the country for national supply and production as a strategic sector, which is energy. Where privatisation has occurred in the past, the trend should be reversed in order to bring the whole energy sector back into public hands. That's the first time. Secondly, the management of this energy infrastructure must follow non-profit logic. Energy supply should be seen as a human right, not a profit-making business. And exactly the same attitude Slovenia should take at European Union level. There would also be a need for regulation, and there would also be a need for nationalisation of the energy sector. I think it is clear from everything I have said that the global market we are referring to today is a healthy fact problem. And that the global energy supply market itself is the one that needs to be abolished and replaced by democratic planning that will take into account the real needs of both citizens and citizens, people, households that are beneficiaries of these energies, as the rest of the economy. Because it is precisely this speculation on the market in the direction of production and supply corporations that drives the current energy crisis and price growth. We simply must not be satisfied that we continue to reward them with the measures of subsidisation and deregulation, with the very reason for the problem to be cut off. From this point of view, regulation is good in relation to the market, but nationalisation is better.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Get ready, Franz Rosec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I am listening to my colleague, Miha Kordiš, talk about the nationalisation of European energy, the European energy market. In short, my mind's gone somewhere else. And the fact is, what can I say about Slovenia about energy dependence – we don't give water, we don't have oil. What are we going to nationalize? We made a commitment not to have hydropower plants, we don't have oil, we don't have natural gas. I don't know how or what; it's followed by some kind of energy security, anyway. I think the crisis of the epidemic has come to this point to sober us up in all areas. It sobers us on dependence – and, of course, on the food market – energy. It sobers us up to our fellow humans, our lives, our solidarity. And certainly we're not in beautiful and envious times. It's a tough time coming, just like after every outbreak. A few days ago, I watched what caused the Spanish flu all over the world. I'm sure one of you has been watching this. It wasn't the pink times. They had to go back to what was essential, which was trust in man, trust in science, and, of course, solidarity. Older ones often remind us that we may have lost touch with nature, life, and people. And they ask us where we are going; that we have lived in a period of fat cows, that we have afforded all things, that we have no sense, or that we have suppressed somewhere a sense of saving, that we do not know how to work with the few things that are rare. All of this is revealed in this epidemic time or post-epidemic time. True, we have also noticed what it means to import food from abroad. Here, too, prices are rising, and food is essential to me, and in my eyes it means the sovereignty of the nation. Today it has been said that we have low-retirement demagogies. If we have low pension demagogies, then I am counting on you to support the Income Act, where we are proposing a thousand 500 Euros of relief for seniors, is said to be pensioners. Only in this way can we do something together for the pensioners, for those who actually depend on how much they receive or what amount they receive. That demagogy may also be on the side of the party that proposed such a question shows when I pulled the article from 2015, October 16th, Dnevnik, Debt cancellation has so far proved to be an empty shot. That was demagogic, too. In 2015, at the time, the Ministry of Labour was led by the Social Democrats to talk about debt write-offs to all those with debts to kindergartens, to the commune, to the power plant and everything else. Here, it shows that this demagogic approach to debt cancellation was really only demagogic, because, finally, this article in Dnevnik says that most of the action turned out to be older, debt write-offs to kindergartens, while debt write-offs to Energetics, Nigrad and Strength received very few deposits. And it also later turned out that it was not the right approach. Therefore, it is obvious that the introduction of energy vouchers will be implemented, perhaps not in the way it was in the debt write-off, but in a way that will actually help those who will need energy vouchers. These are those who are the poorest, either older or family, people who live alone in apartments, in short, I am sure that this introduction of energy vouchers will reach those who need it. The fact is that the retail price of electricity and natural gas has changed but cannot be regulated, these prices are being set free on the market, as you all know that. And that it is temporarily possible to reduce the payment of certain contributions relating to electricity and gas payments, but these shortfalls should be taken elsewhere or further charged later. It was said that nothing was done and that electricity was irritable, but I can say that at the time of the crown, because we were all sitting here, electricity went down, that at the time the government made sure that the footprints were lower. And that we may be most burdened by this very commitment to climate objectives, which we cannot give up without consequences for implementing the necessary measures to meet climate commitments. It's nice to hear what we're going to do to clean up our land that really needs to be cleansed, but that means a change in our way of life, which certainly can't be tomorrow, but it's a process. We are committed to changing this in ten years, in these ten years we have time to prepare ourselves for this, and that also energy-poor countries like Slovenia, after all, because we do not have our own resources, we are trying to do the most to make ourselves self-sustaining and to make the least of our environmental burdens by doing so. I don't think it's the right way to headlessly defend a doctrine, but that the solution is certainly in solidarity, in cohabitation, and as much as we can help each other. Let me once again say that I do not see the reality of any nationalisation of the European energy market, this is completely pointless to talk about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text is wanted by the Magi's proposer. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much. My colleague, Iva Dimic, is confident that these vouchers will help the most vulnerable. I might warn her at this point – it's cold already today, buying fuel is necessary and simply what they'll get if they get it, it'll be almost too late by then. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. Slovenia currently has very well dispersed energy sources. This now provides 80 % of electricity supply, and we still lack 20% of supply. This cut in electricity production, we know, is plastic that a third of the thermal power plant is Shoštanj, that a third is from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and a third comes from hydropower plants or renewable energy sources. As a member of the EU, we are also committed to reducing coal consumption and it will be necessary to agree in due course or decades on how to replace this coal-producing energy manoeuvring and that replacing this share will not be too much of a burden for households or not for the economy. We know that the price of electricity is a very important factor or factor in the competitiveness of our economy. In the beginning, I mentioned that Slovenia is self-sustaining around 80%. The devil is always because, when 20% are missing, other countries across Europe or outside Europe are also missing. If we look at the European Union alone, this was dependent on electricity imports – here I have data for 2019 – 61%, for 2020 – 56% dependence on electricity imports. At the same time, spending in the EU is increasing by 5% and the forecasts for next year are around 4%, and increased economic growth is also encouraging. And this is how we come to some phenomenon – global demand for gas and coal, especially Asia and the EU. We have also experienced poor hydrometeorological conditions in the field of hydroelectric power plants and – as in Germany – this cannot happen to us because we have only two windmills – a manna of wind. The large factor or variable is also gas storage, which is now seen in this price increase, and that all warehouses across Europe are empty. However, the problem is that many EU Member States or other Member States do not even have some cases of gas storage. Let me touch the heat. We kind of fell asleep in the heat, I'd say we're about 50% behind modern Europe. We have a very good energy that we produce every day, and that's garbage. We're paying you to take them away and someone's blowing them away. And if we start to wonder why the price of heating in the sky, i.e. Ljubljana as the capital, where the largest population and the largest waste is produced, is used as a substitute because it leaves the production of heat from coal, it builds a gas steam turbine. I don't know why they didn't choose a modern incinerator. This is the case in Denmark, where there is a ski resort with artificial grass on the roof of this building; there is no need to have, it is more modern. [[Incomprehensible]] And now to assume the responsibility of the government as regards heating, this is a small problem, because ownership of municipal companies is primarily on the part of the municipalities, the municipalities are responsible for recruiting responsible personnel and overseeing the operations of municipal companies. They used to do a little cowboy work there. We also have another major problem – this is mainly the placement of projects in our space. The last case is Mokrice. The administrative court has again suspended implementation because it is necessary to protect the fish and they are of greater interest than the construction of the hydroelectric power plant. I don't know how we're going to get through these renewables to this demanding share or that we're just going to replace production at the Chestnut plant. By putting objects in a space like this, it's very bad. And in the end, there's something else I'd like to conclude. The electricity connection is linked to the payment of the RTV subscription. I think that this contribution could be eliminated to these socially disadvantaged people. This is the fastest move – 12.75 euros a month, and this is something you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. However, I will try to keep the darkness a little more, because if I went so wide, you would certainly warn me of what you will not do to your own colleagues. If we put aside any demagogies, there is some truth to be said by the President of the Government and colleague Kordish and also by colleague Rosec. I actually agree with him to need at least two modern incinerators. Even before it became popular that you from the National Assembly, the Infrastructure Committee, began to visit Vienna, I myself, as a professor of course, did it with my students far before, to the truth of love. And, of course, locate them where the most garbage is produced. In that incinerator in Copenhagen, for example, they burn even English trash as far as I know. But our topic now is energy poverty mainly in the field of heating here and now, in the middle of winter. Energy poverty, as Sonibo has said, has been experienced for decades. And more than cynically, what the President of the Government has said is that there is just some data on the number of poor citizens and citizens, one eighth of them, just some statistical data. I could be cynical and I would say – Yes, look, a large majority of us in some Trenta can't buy parcels for 6, 7 grand and then sell it for, what, 120, 130. And now I am experiencing what I have been experiencing for the eighth year in the National Assembly – always in return, there are always others to blame. I also heard that we don't know anything, but we don't read anything, okay, and the Chinese are still guilty. We have a problem here that we should be solving right now. Bruegel is not just one of my favorite painters, Bruegel is also one of the best thinkers, some say that even the best think tank in Europe. Google Bruegel and see – the bearing article is a problem of energy poverty, and it was last renewed on Friday, where it clearly shows action by the European Member States in this area. And the vast majority of serious countries have already taken these measures in September. One in early September, some also because of what Janša said, because of the very growth of new contracts, new purchases, especially natural gas, and most of them there by the third week in September. And here we are hearing that the government has set up a working body and that when they will be; if they will be. And we've got a really bad winter ahead of us. When will they be? And that these things are usually settled in April, May. Jesus Christ, my one-year-old grandson knows that you don't heat up like you did in December. According to Janša, prices don't go up just to the energy people, prices generally go up. What does that mean? This also means that inflation will go up, of course the European Central Bank is not the Fed, not the UK, which means that sooner or later they will go up interest, which also means that our debts will become more expensive. For example, I am surprised that so far no one – but everyone is knocking, especially on the government side, coalition, how patriotic you are – has not mentioned the issue of agriculture. There too is a serious challenge and severe poverty, especially after — with the exception of vineyards — a very bad harvest. And if we add to this the public financial deficit, there is in fact one big bull, as we say in Maribor, and quite a few bad winters ahead of us. And, of course, action should already be taken before yesterday, September. For 20 months, you ruled with decrees, now that you have literally done almost everything — but now let us work together. Where is the room for cooperation with the parliamentary opposition? Parliament. More than 50 of you supported such a way of ruling at the start, including Zorčič, including the Servant, including someone else. Now that the bitch's taken the joke, as it says in the people's language, yes, but now let's have a love and we'll, I don't know, warm up a half-frozen sauce in February. This is serious statistical data. Particularly problematic are the so-called single-member households, which are mostly represented by older ladies, often widows, with low pensions, who essentially store the flutes of Jasbinsk for their grandchildren and freeze. That's actually some kind of fact. The fact is that we already have a third deregulation government with a self-proclaimed goat bull in the same position. I'm sorry, that's what his pianists said. That's what he said. I quote. These are some of the facts to be dealt with. The fact is that when it came to deregulation, we were actually only on the new left against it. You've stayed so small, Uncle Mickey. And then I hear from, I don't know, they're obviously in the stage of some new age, the Enes – let's be modest, let's love each other, and Slovenia is an energy poor country. That's just not true. Come on, fellow Rosec, teach, you come from energy, your colleague from NSI. And instead of talking about energy poverty on some concrete measures, how, who, what to help, what to do with, what to do with, what to do with, what to do with, what to do with temporary reductions in certain duties in this area, because here some warm water is not to be detected, we are to spread out how we will achieve climate goals or we will not reach them in ten years. That's essentially avoiding the answer to a question. However, in the medium term, this issue is, of course, linked to housing policy and mobility, transport policy and, in fact, to the policy of reindustrialisation and so on. But today we somehow expected that if it hadn't happened in September or in the first half of October, John Janša would tell us what measures the government would take in those 15 minutes. Not that I'm listening to how I don't know and I don't read. Yeah, I've been ratting on what? From watching the beauty of SDS for 53 years. I gave as much for books in my life as Janša got for that lot in Trenta, for Snow's Masserati if you want; but I won't apologize for that. And every government has to solve such things, not her. It doesn't matter if everything Janša said is a hundred times more true than it is a three-quarter lie if all governments were a hundred times worse than he wants to show them, it's no excuse that you're not at this point solving what you should be saving. It's easy, open up Bruegel, read about those 17, 18 countries, how to get rid of them, and then we'll talk about it. Because until then, I'll tell you that you don't read anything. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u42	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dearly esteemed choir! First of all, I would like to take a look at the words of my colleague Kordiš, who said that he would nationalise the energy market in the European Union. It saddens me that the crisis of the epidemic is sometimes a crisis of ideas. It is best that we turn Europe directly into Venezuela. Populism and demagogism in difficult times have never, ever brought a solution or a mission, but unfortunately greater suffering and misery. But let's go back to our debate. Today's debate on the answer to the question of the question of energy prices and other goods is certainly necessary, but there is no need to create and raise fear between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. There's nothing to look for here. The current government, members of the coalition and Minister Jernej Vrtovac place all seriousness on the current problem of rising energy prices in Slovenia, Europe and the world. A number of measures are being prepared and some are not yet in force before prices in Slovenia rise substantially. Let me remind my colleagues and colleagues here again, I recall that so far, only one company, Petrol, d.d., has announced the possible price increase and has not even implemented these forecasts. The current government has also acted. The prices of heating oil are re-regulated. Margins at the price of heating oil are regulated again. They can be up to a maximum of 6 cents per litre, and the price for the letter has dropped at the time of price regulation. Even the party Levica acknowledged on the committees that the rise in energy prices is due to a close rise, a rise in energy prices in international markets, it is said that the current government may not be at fault. But to restore the little situation. The demand for energy is enormous, and energy is lacking, on the other hand, also because of the reduction in quotas, non-fracking or non-fracking in the United States and because of a huge number of other factors, which unfortunately this government has no influence, although we would like to see a lot of this happen to us too. Many among you do not know that fuel is not paid when a tanker is ordered, but when this tanker comes to your port and draws. This is said to be a wholesale price to be determined when it is thin; not when it is purchased or ordered. Thus, the price may differ substantially from that of the payment and the purchase. That's all I want to teach my colleagues. The ignorance and obvious deception of citizens and citizens with regard to price liberalisation is enormous. What does that even mean? I know that from their soul and heart they know that nothing but that the frequency of fuel price conversion is happening more often. When fuel prices fall on the world market, we find it very nice when prices go down faster every day. Unfortunately, however, the matter also works in the opposite direction. Citizens and citizens should be reminded that in fuel countries they are now significantly lower than in 2013 and 2014. Here we have a graph where we clearly see that the country is now significantly less collecting than in 2013, 2014. The current government will respond to a pressing issue that we are not running away from with energy wolves. The first calculations show that 66,000 people were to receive them. The current Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec actively solves the potential energy crisis in Slovenia before winter and also throughout Europe. Let me say that the Minister's pro-activity is also demonstrated by the reference of the Energy Council, although some say that this was called too late, but I think it was effective. If I go back to the European Commission report, it is very clear. I also discussed this on the committee, but let's do it again. In Slovenia, energy prices have seen the least rise or rise. Countries that have taken more measures than Slovenia – and this is also what colleague Trček mentioned earlier – have experienced significantly greater growth, including up to 100 % more growth than Slovenia. Finally, I like to involve the European Parliament very much. Slovenia has 8 European Members and Members. Robert Schuman, the great-grandfather, and the other great-grandfathers of the European Union, saw in the European Coal and Steel Community, which then grew into the European Union. Some Slovenian Members have written several open letters in the past, and unfortunately there were no ideas in these letters. But there were accusations – how Slovenian. In the past, Slovenian MEPs have proposed roaming, a anti-cancer group and also a smart village. Why do not the European Members now propose the establishment of a specific agency for the planning of energy production in Europe and outside? However, it is difficult for the opposition, supported in the past by TES 6, which we read in an article that TES 6 is expected to generate 870 million losses by 2030; how much money could go into reducing electricity. In the past — and I have always been critical — we did not know how to extract green, renewable energy sources. We in Primorsk have only two windmills. Let me get back to the beginning. For me, it is very unacceptable that we want to nationalise the energy market in the European Union, at least some, and thus some want to return us to some past times where they also knew electricity cuts. Or maybe it's those who want it to end up in the dark and cold. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I would like to replicate to my colleague Montenegro only that people are cold now, this moment, even as Sonibo said. Where do they go? In white shirts take pictures on balconies and make a jumbo poster as your ministers? The minister's job is to seek and introduce solutions now. That's where I'm looking at my buddy Pogačnik. When you're in the opposition, you've always talked about how oil derivatives are going to be like in Austria and how it's going to be 50 euros. Of course, times have changed now, but let us all be made real. Now we need to find solutions. Not like two married couples who are supposed to be separated 30 years ago, they're going to fight over who's to blame. Now we need solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u45	Dear colleagues, I propose that you respond in accordance with the business provisions if necessary. There is no need to violate the provisions, and then the matter is taken in a completely different direction. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I agree that today's debate is necessary, but that is not how many deceptions are needed. We are probably all aware that this is a global problem of price hikes, and we probably all know that the whole European Union is also discussing possible measures, that is, how to help citizens of the European Union. What else did you have to worry about during the discussion? The rapporteur said that the competent committee, on which you had already discussed this subject, had neither confirmed nor confirmed the conclusion that a working group should be set up and examined this area, analysed the problems. Why has this competent committee not confirmed this decision? Because the working group at the level of State secretaries is already working and is already examining all proposals that have also been made at the level of the European Union. You have, of course, deceived and accused the current and former Minister of Economy on several occasions, as the price deregulation has resulted in these price increases. I would like to remind you, however, that at his previous meeting on 18 October, he had already answered the questions on this subject. And the Minister of Economy made it clear at that time that we are all aware that today oil prices in global markets have reached record high values. He explained and explained in a very plastic manner that the price of petroleum derivatives was composed of a grave of three parts, namely the price of oil on the world market, the excise duty determined by the State and the margin of traders. And what was liberalized, so only margins were liberalized. And traders' margins affect the price of oil on average around 6-7%. Certainly, this price increase is not the effect of liberalisation of these margins, but mainly the impact of price increases on global markets. Indeed, the price of oil in global markets has an impact of around 40% on the price of oil derivatives or energy products. And that is why prices have risen very much at this point. However, he also warned that we need to be realistic that they have returned to the 2018 and 2019 levels, because last year, as we have already heard from the Prime Minister of the Government, when covid lockdown was actually stopped, because even in production, when oil derivatives were used less, the prices also fell. And now we need to be realistic – not to compare current prices with last year’s prices, but to compare them with prices a few years ago. I would also like the prices of oil derivatives to be much lower, because I am alone twice to three times a week at a gas station and I know how much price per tank has risen. It has also been said that in Slovenia we have a specific concept of a vulnerable customer and the protection of such a vulnerable customer against disconnection, both legally and in accordance with the European legal order. This concept is called emergency care and is intended to delay the disconnection of the vulnerable customer. For example, if a failure of electricity or heating causes a person to be in danger of life or the health of the customer or the person staying with him, this legal concept and measure shall be applied. However, since we are all talking about this energy poverty in recent weeks, it is important to note that this concept is in fact not yet set by law. The government will – and the basis of the Electricity Supply Act – here is the legal basis – adopt a regulation to actually define this notion of energy poverty. As we have heard, certain aid measures are envisaged, particularly for beneficiaries of social assistance and beneficiaries of a protective allowance. Here I would like to point out that it is often forgotten about the recipients of monetary compensation at the Employment Institute and, above all, what workers on minimum wages are very disputing about, those workers who work for very low wages. Unfortunately, many times their status is lower than those receiving social assistance. I hope that this aid will determine this notion of energy poverty as fairly and realistically as possible and that it will not be limited to the recipients of monetary social assistance. More than once, it has been said that people will be cold by now. As we have heard or seen, even my energy position is no higher, even slightly lower, because I recently signed that contract for the next year, and it is also a 10% lower price. In fact, the end-users have not yet received an increase in the price of energy, and perhaps there is someone there, but they also have the possibility of replacing the supplier with a cheaper one. Since I said earlier that this working group of State secretaries is already in operation, some acceptable measures have already been overtaken. The government has the opportunity to intervene a single subsidy to socially vulnerable people, as I mentioned earlier and as you have suggested in some way, whether energy vouchers or otherwise, it also has the possibility of reducing VAT on electricity and gas, for example from a higher 22% to a lower level of 9.5%, which Spain has also accepted. It is also under discussion by the working group and this measure is considered to be one of the possible measures to help citizens. However, just so the state cannot regulate prices, certain options are in the Price Control Act, but I would like to point out here only a few indications that there are certain limits. The Law on Price Control provides, inter alia, that market participants freely formulate prices on the basis of supply and demand and other competing factors, which State authorities must take into account when determining price control measures. Next. In each case, the State authorities may only apply such price control measures as are necessary in view of the reason for the measure and minimise competition and are closest to normal market conditions and lead to the removal of the reasons for the price control measures as soon as possible. And beyond. The price control law also provides that the price control measure shall last for as long as there is a reason for it, but no longer than one year. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia may, in justified cases after that time, renew the measure on the basis of a preliminary analysis of the situation. Currently, in the Republic of Slovenia, it is on the basis of this law that the price of petroleum derivatives rises dramatically and consequently the price of the fuel oil has already been regulated, as the government also adopted at the letter meeting on 20 October this year. Among other things, the prices of textbooks, which are the only ones for each subject or only for the professional module in a particular class, are regulated. Thus, it is not simply a longer period of time without a well-founded analysis to regulate and lower prices in a broad way, because, as it is said, prices must be constructed on the basis of supply and demand. The prices of oil derivatives, because today we are talking most about this, although it is true that there are also a lot of other prices, construction, agriculture and industry, all are rising prices, industry also does not get certain products from abroad, even if they were paid at a higher price. A few consequences of this crisis will still come and will continue to come, and some long-term measures will also be needed, not only in the short term, that is for sure. But I might also stress this about these margins, as I mentioned earlier, if I return to the price of oil derivatives. The prices of oil derivatives in Slovenia are moving as well as in neighbouring EU countries. Those who are at the border know that before our southern neighbours like to go to Slovenia or others, now somehow prices are moving similarly, I think they are still higher, but above all, as I have already mentioned, they are today bound to the price of crude oil in global markets. It's the biggest influence to lift this. Once the government has released the prices of petroleum derivatives, once again, this means that it has released the margins on oil derivatives, which represent a smaller part of the overall structure of the price of petroleum derivatives, namely 6-7 % of the final retail price. However, the world market price for oil represents around 40% or, together with all taxes, more than 90% of the final retail fuel price. And if we compare what the Prime Minister has already said today, if we compare the margins in Slovenia, they were below the European average before liberalisation. In the case of petrol, the margins in Slovenia reached around 76% of the average gross margin in European countries, 63% for diesel fuel, only 51% of the gross margin in the European Union. As in the past, the low price of fuels at Slovenian pumps depended on low prices in global markets, even now the high price of fuels is not due to the liberalisation of fuel prices, but rather to high oil prices in global markets. In Slovenia, however, we also have the Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for controlling prohibited restrictive practices on the market. And if it finds out, it will also point out what actions that can significantly jeopardise the existence of effective competition. And in this case, sanctioning is possible. In the event of a situation on the market for petroleum derivatives, fuel prices in Slovenia are moving as I said before, as in the rest of the EU and reflect developments on the world market. I'm not doing this again. As I said, we are all aware of how much more we are already paying for this fuel on petrol pumps, but it is realistic that prices cannot be compared with last year's year during covida-19, but prices should be compared in the long term, somehow even in previous years before covida-19. For the last time, the Minister of Economy replied in another part of the Member State's question that if the country went too far to some prices, otherwise the option is only part of the excise duty, but it can happen as - those who are a little older, remember - in the former Yugoslav State, that we can drive every other day or only certain numbers on the tables. Indeed, measures should be taken with some correct measure of influence. Of course, the opposition is more populist, everything should be reduced, but I think the government will, I am sure, find certain measures to help those who are more socially vulnerable. But, as I said, here we must not forget those workers on minimum wages, not always the recipients of social assistance. Even those who have been unemployed and have worked for many years and also received low monetary compensation often fall into the aid. We can't forget about these, either. Since I see that the working group is already actively working, I have summarised certain measures, are actively working on it, I believe they will certainly find some real but also real assistance. We are probably aware that what the state will unfortunately not be able to help, but those most needy, most vulnerable, I am sure it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. A colleague talked about how little was used during the epidemic and the price at the time. I would like to point out that at the time the price of oil in this part was duty-free, these were contributions, excise duties. Last year, the government maintained and raised excise duties, despite the fact that the price of oil in world markets dropped tremendously, only that the price of oil was on one euro. At that time, citizens and citizens paid higher excise duties, so it would be reasonable for the state to help with this now when the oil judge in the markets is significantly higher, so that something is eaten here or that the margin is then a little lower. Indeed, at the time the price and consumption of oil were significantly lower when this lockdown was, but the government prevented the price from falling below the euro when the consumption was significantly lower. If everything were normal and the margin was so, the price would be significantly lower than the euro. A colleague also spoke about the postponement of payments. Payment delays need to be highlighted, and humanitarian organisations are also reminding us that this is not a good solution. For the delay of payment only prolongs a matter that will always have to be paid. And if I don't have the money to pay today, I won't have it in five months, unless I get some money on the lottery so I can cover these costs, because the debts are backing up. And if someone really doesn't have the money today, it's extremely difficult and needs to be helped today. There was a speech that this government would find solutions. Look, today, now we need to warm up, today prices are rising, measures should be on the table. We are not talking about hand-to-hand decisions, because I believe that this should be monitored. World markets and the world have already shown up somewhere in September what is happening. If the government were to be up - to - date and not deal with other things, there would be concrete measures on the table today. Today, on the part of the President of the Government, we have not heard who will get the sheep, just talking about the 66,000 citizens and citizens who will receive these sheep, under what conditions when they will receive them. Warming's already today. The tanks need to be filled today, or they were filled a month ago. The discussion was also about the replacement of distributors, for Petrol announced the promotion. Now I don't know if he's going to make it happen on December 1st or not, because then the President of the Government said it was a speculative reflection. When you replace a distributor, you sort of make a contract with him for a year. And yes, today you can replace the distributor, it's a pretty simple matter, but all distributors will somehow follow the price hike next year if there's no government or state-specific action. It's not all gold that shines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Mojca Znidarich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u50	There's a little replica. I wasn't talking about the suspension. I was talking about the suspension. It is true, however, that all these years have existed, as you yourself have said before, these extraordinary social aids and people have been able to fall to the hotspots or energy or to pay for such things with the help of extraordinary social assistance. But I wasn't talking about delaying the payment, I was talking about putting off the switch, not turning off the power or the heat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Vice President. If you have listened well to the answer or explanation given by the Prime Minister, you may have already found that the government is ready to face this issue that you have highlighted today. I don't think you have any further concerns. I would still ask you here what you, the Social Democrats, have done in the fight against energy poverty in the last 20 years when you were in power. I want that answer. That's what I'd like to hear from your mouth, proposer. What exactly did you do? Because this problem hasn't been from last year or since before last year, but I'm curious what you've done in these 20 years of rule. For you speak of energy poverty, poverty in general, and all such demagogic populist themes only when you are in opposition. You have to admit that. When you're on the government, don't say a word about it. And I want to know what you've done. And what would we do if we ruled today? What would you have done? And where would you get the money if you thought you'd just be rolling all over the place, just for populism. Which I don't believe that, because at the moment we were in the government, we would forget about energy poverty, about the poor and everything else, just like you've always been. We know that this problem raises the prices of energy and goods not only in Slovenia, but in the whole world. You like to defend some green passageways, a carbon-free society, the non-use of fossil fuels and so on, on the other hand, you are not in favour of building hydroelectric power plants to build wind power plants. You are not in favour of updating the energy network; you have done nothing in this area so far. And when it builds, it sets up photovoltaics, we know that the energy network, especially low voltage, is not at all able to respond to such a large installation of solar power plants. We know that self - care is very poor, and it could be much better. But since you haven't done anything about it so far, the government is working on it, the current government. There's also a lot of money written down at the Eco-Inventory for the renovation of buildings, for the replacement of building furniture, for the replacement of combustion plants, for the installation of heat pumps and so on. This is what will also reduce this energy poverty of yours, which you are primarily spreading, because there is no somnolence in Europe at all. And these are the measures – raise wages, raise pensions, supplements. Support the Income Act to raise wages. These are measures for people to have money so that they can pay for heating. These are the measures the government is currently preparing, and let these things be supported. But if you're just going to play this card, that there's energy poverty everywhere, that no one can pay for the heat anymore, that everyone's going to be cold, then it's going to be nothing. And once again, please explain to the people what you have done in the last 20 years when you ruled, against energy poverty, and what you would do if you ruled today. That's all I care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Unlike my predecessor, I will not ask what was going on in the partisans, whether it was right to fight the invader, what was going on at the time the witches were burned, or what was going on ten years ago. I will talk about exactly what the subject is meant to be – about energy poverty and how to help people who are having a hard time not to get cold. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a real problem. I am fully aware that this national assembly is not to blame for the rise in energy prices, and I agree with that. The same is true of this national assembly, this government is not to blame for the outbreak of covida-19. But it's her fault that she crashed it, and we have catastrophic results. And to prevent this from happening, as far as energy poverty is concerned, we have repeatedly addressed the subject of how to help. I really wish that when representatives of the rulings say the words “come together, we invite you to cooperate”, you do not understand this in a dictatorial way. What is a dictatorial or authoritarian way? That the dictator says, "I'm a genius, everything I say is right, and I know everything and you let me follow in full." If this is how we understand "get together," we'll never get together. First of all, your boss isn't a genius, because otherwise the covida-19 situation wouldn't be what it is, and dictatorship doesn't belong in a modern democratic system. But we can say the opposite: yes, we believe in the river “come together” and “call for cooperation”, but the room for participation is this hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The area of cooperation shall be those outside the Committees' premises. This is no place on the roof of this House, it's not a place out there. There is room in this House. And how does he cooperate? By having a concrete theme and, with respect and respect, we are proposing solutions. I'm just going to jump away a little bit, today I've re-addressed the call to the government – why, what is the reason, is this such hatred of the opposition, or what is the reason why you would reject more or less all of the opposition's useful proposals? And last week I counted, but only part, 34 useful suggestions, concerning better control of the epidemic. No, no, no. By the way, today I have reinstated what you refused me April of this year, so please allow children to be tested over saliva, if that's what they want, because a lot of countries do. But not with us, and you prefer to cause stress. Look, respectable and respected, none of these are present, and the government is not to blame for the price of energy sources going up. That is why the European Commission reacted correctly on 13 October. What did the European Commission do on 13 October? She suggested to the Member States what they should do to help people who were hardest or hardest to deal with. There are a lot of things written down, but here they also talk about extraordinary income support for energy poor consumers, talking about vouchers, partial payments of bills, talking about granting temporary deferrals of payments and accounts, guards to prevent disconnection from the network and so on. Interestingly, similar proposals have been addressed by the Slovenian Consumers' Union in the area of control of retail energy prices for households and so on. A lot of suggestions, and in practice, if I simplify it, it is a matter of doing everything to make sure that someone who, because of the extreme situation at the moment, cannot pay the energy bill will not be shut down. To do all things, but now; not through the promise that one day we will help those in need. There are many ways — they are shepherds, there are many different ways. And something like that. Why is this call from the Consumer Union a little more important than it seems? Because this call is also a formal reason for the government to react through the applicable Price Control Act. To this day, except for one slow action, this is an intervention in the fuel industry, we have not been granted if we are looking at that table, I think there are already 20 European countries that have responded. Well, how effective is that, it'll be checked in time. We are here today because we want to discuss and propose concrete measures. I have a problem discussing with an empty bottle of water. That's a big problem, you know. The one who was sitting behind an empty bottle of water was throwing his eyes at that side. Now that I can answer, there's only an empty bottle of water and a half full glass. Yeah, then who am I talking to?Oh, my God! This is a serious problem and this is a sign of how we are aware of the problem of energy poverty. What further upsets me is that I am a little emotional when the Prime Minister of any country comes and says - let's step together, I call for cooperation; then he starts slapping us like we're kids who don't want to be tested in primary school. And you can't fuck these kids, by the way. After he starts talking about fundamentalists and climates, yes, this is the same person who said that protecting nature through nature is a shot to the knee; and after he starts explaining to us whether we have read the material. Yeah, well, that's the problem. We've read them too much. The one who listened to what Franjo Duck said. If the government were right, I'd thank him. Those who listen to what Ambassador Bojana Muršič says. The government should thank and accept the initiatives. And now, with respect and respect, I'm talking to an empty bottle of water. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Take it easy, too. You don't have to start any demagogies. Replica, Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u56	I'll be very brief. I guess they didn't understand me very well in the Social Democrats, because they answered my question with words about dictatorship and so on. I asked and ask again – What have you done in the Social Democrats against energy poverty in the last 20 years when you were in government? And why do you speak so much about energy poverty only when you are in opposition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. From my point of view and from my point of view, the situation seems to be serious, but I think it will be manageable and manageable. In the past, low fuel prices have been the result of low oil prices in global markets. Even now, the high price of fuels is not due to the liberalisation of fuel prices, but rather to high oil prices in global markets. In the past, the government has released the prices of oil derivatives, released the margins of the final retail price. The purchase of the world market oil price represents around 40% and, together with all taxes, more than 90% of the final retail fuel price. However, we must also say that when the government released the price of all fuels in 2020, oil prices in global markets were extremely low. The price control law also provides that the price control measure shall last for as long as there is a reason for it, but not for more than one year. Currently, in the Republic of Slovenia, the prices of heating oil and the prices of textbooks are regulated by law. In the case of electricity, we have had relatively low electricity prices for households in Slovenia for 2 years. In the first half of 2020 there was a further reduction during the first wave of covida-19. The government is also preparing additional measures for the socially disadvantaged in the event that there is a threat to the supply of energy. One of the measures taken by electricity customers is the replacement of a supplier which is free and which any consumer can also do, so customers can deliver a more favourable price by exchanging the supplier in a timely manner. We must also say that any regulation of prices on the market is contrary to the European acquis on the internal market and the energy market. One of the measures the government is preparing is the measure of single subsidisation of socially vulnerable households from the source of funds from the Climate Change Fund or the budget. This subsidy will refer to socially vulnerable groups with a current social support decision. On the other hand, as regards the government’s epidemic, I would suggest that everyone sweeps away and thinks about what has contributed to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Tadej Shuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Natural gas prices are within reasonable limits and with some suppliers they rose in early October and some are planned in 2022. Let me stress that prices have not risen yet, but they are planned at the beginning of 2022 for about 10%, which is not very drastic. All incentives are due to specific situations of suppliers on the wholesale market, with current price rises on the wholesale market not directly reflected in retail prices for consumers. As the debater has already said before me, anyone can also choose to switch electricity suppliers and simply replace the contract with another cheaper supplier. The retail price of electricity and natural gas cannot be regulated, this price being set free on the market. It is temporarily possible to reduce the payment of certain contributions linked to the payment of electricity and gas, but these fallen contributions must be taken elsewhere or charged later. All contributions, other than VAT and excise duty, have their legal purpose linked to the operation of the network and climate objectives, which cannot be waived without consequences for the implementation of the necessary measures or for the fulfilment of climate commitments. In the case of heat supply from remote heating systems, the price of heat shall be regulated by the Energy Agency in a cost-effective manner. The heat distributor shall take into account the maximum starting price when determining the tariff items and may adapt the variable part, which is also related to the input costs of heat-producing energy. Due to very different district heating systems from their heat generation sources, the prices of heat from the systems are already very different, in a ratio of around 1 to 3, as shown by the publication of the annual analysis available on the Energy Agency. As a result of probably new, slightly higher prices of natural gas, we can expect adjustments to the variable part of the price of heat from the district heating systems which are mainly linked to this energy. The increase in the price of heat supply is usually very careful, including by comparison with possible alternatives in the local environment, and depends on supply contracts and, as has been said, heat generation energy in a specific local district heating system. The concept of energy poverty in Slovenia is not yet legally defined and quantified. To this end, the Government will adopt a regulation which has a legal basis in the newly adopted Electricity Supply Act. In Slovenia, however, we already have a specific concept of a vulnerable customer and the protection of such a customer from disconnection, in accordance with the European legal order. This concept is called emergency care, which is intended to delay the disconnection of a vulnerable customer if such a disconnect would constitute a threat to the life or health of that customer or those staying with him. Urgent care is not intended for the regular care of socially disadvantaged citizens. We have social support for socially disadvantaged citizens, and energy is the market goods that need to be bought and paid. The costs of energy supply are real and cannot be eliminated by means of a magic wand. The concept of emergency supply is very rarely used in the case of electricity and gas supply, since the signature of the supply contract with the new supplier is the most easy way to avoid any disconnection and also the price increase. There are no conditions and no questions, just the signing of the contract. At a time when suppliers decide to raise prices, consumers should be encouraged to react to such price increases by switching suppliers. And this is a natural market way to limit irritation to a minimum that is conditioned by actual higher wholesale prices and not by the margin of suppliers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you, President. Measures for this quick help, this initiative that came out for this public matter, I think and I hope that it will fall at least a little to the fertile ground. I find it difficult to believe that, given that you rejected the coalition and voted against the provision of drinking water in Anhove, which was also one of the basic issues. Because that's completely incomprehensible. I think that you, the well-respected coalition, are absolutely paid, mathematically paid to keep high energy prices and everything together, because it costs less if you really gave help to the most vulnerable, like the difference when you should lower prices and reduce the practical revenue in the cash register. That's my opinion, and I'm sure of that. It's right here. Today we are witnessing some of the words of the President of the Government that could be evaluated – nothing concrete, absolutely nothing tangible. I'd say floscules at home, that's what I'm going to say, 'cause he didn't say anything at all. I don't think he was telling the truth either, which I'm going to prove. As we ourselves know, electricity is one of these main virtues of nature. So that's what's absolutely necessary today for us to even live. You will remember what electricity Of course, if we are also talking about electricity, we can say quickly. [[…]] The absolute increase in electricity means, you don't want to increase everything: from food, all things, the prices of products, products and everything in general rise. What does it mean to raise prices in industry, crafts, production, agriculture, all of it? It is so inevitable that prices will rise. Because of you, because you probably don't want to be able to make any changes. And most importantly, I now believe your expert, Dr. Speaker of God, when he said out loud that the price of gas could be 40 cents and the price of diesel was 35 cents if the government didn't charge so much. And here's the core of everything! Look, I'm gonna show you one thing that proves a lie, a complete lie, what you say all the time. Oil prices in the raw market are not as high as they were in 2013. Here you see right here, here's a diagram that shows you. In 2013, it was $116 for a Brent, for a Brent. I'll talk about the Brent, which is our factor, if you say so, what we're interested in. But it was $116 and the price of diesel fuel was €1.40. Is that clear? It's been seen very precisely. Today, we have 30 percent today, 30 percent lower the price of a brent, says a judge, and the price of fuel is 10 percent higher. What has changed over the years? You tell me what's changed! So, there's crap, which is said to have increased oil prices in the raw market. Bullshit. 30 percent is now a lower price since then. So here only a country has a sword in its hands that can cut it and put it back in the rails. These terrible and shameful prices we have today, these fuels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues! The problem of electricity or energy, the rise of energy is very hot, both in electricity and gas, fuel oil. It's the most uplifted in liquid energy: burning oil, gasoline, oil. Fuel prices also raise other products and services. Energy prices are rising, they are dropping in cycles, almost every year for a few years, these differences are slightly higher, and so is now. Speaking from the proposer that it's already cold this year and that it's cold, and that people are freezing, I don't think that's the case, because winter and cold haven't been there yet, so I don't know if any of them would have had any consequences. It's a little colder at night, in the morning, but still no winter. It will probably be in about a month or earlier, so that some kind of energy crisis here is a populist talk, I think it's a delusion. During the course of two years of the epidemiological situation, this government has helped with the vouchers each year, which is touristic, but to all, especially the most vulnerable, especially pensioners, it has already provided funds twice as much as it has helped; as someone has done, as someone has dedicated these funds. Some received 400, 500 euros last year, so they could also use it for heating. Warming up, not from today to tomorrow, people have been preparing themselves since the spring, providing heating for the autumn and that or saving, or dedicating themselves to warm up. Social assistance has also been established, in the past and is mainly intended for heating and weaker families to receive one-off assistance each year. So it is misleading to avoid getting help — the one who is most vulnerable. And the same is true of helping those who have difficulty buying heating. Strong price regulation is mainly in countries, I don't know, in Venezuela, Cuba, North Korea, but this regulation has not been translated into progress. As a result, these regulatory countries also have a problem. In Venezuela and Cuba, people are poor, they're hungry, 5 million people from Venezuela went out. Our lefties went there to educate themselves so that, I don't know, socialism would sell here, but regulation didn't bring any progress. I think it is true, if there is some very large oscillation, maybe some kind of one-off, temporary regulation, maybe it does stop or it does go down. As the Prime Minister of the Government has said today, if the margin goes down, we do nothing because only 8 per cent if the charges go down, it would be possible for a short period of time, but not for a long period of time, because then the funds for other things go down or are not, and it is very burning. But it is true that we need to help one another, to help any family that has no heating for the winter that is in trouble, or children and older ones. This year and last year, electricity didn't irritable. It is also possible to replace the distributor if you are not satisfied, but in liquid fuels this matter is more pressing. But it is a problem to acquire electricity, because some refuse to acquire; in windmills they are disturbed by something, whether it is birds or not, that we cannot place them in space. All together, we have five windmills in the country, in the ridicule of other neighbouring countries, which they place on dozens each year. The problem is also in hydro power plants. If this is done further, consumption will be higher, but if we do not do so, then electricity will probably go up. But if the electricity is really going to rise because of not moving into space, it will also be necessary to find responsibility for those who refuse to do so, won't it? Well, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you very much. My friend said that people don't actually freeze. I don't know if we live somewhere else, but the temperatures this morning were three degrees. Ljubljana is already heating up with heat since 29 September. Heating prices rose in Ljubljana, Maribor, Trbovje, as we heard from our fellow Member. So, yes, in fact, things are serious and alarming, which is why today is also the debate. It is not a debate to discuss this issue in any way. We want to encourage the government to take action. I have to say that I am delighted that this has happened to me, that this issue has been voted out, because then Members recognize that this is an extremely pressing issue that we should already have on the table today. I expected the Prime Minister to say today that you and you and you, then and then; we will reduce, I don't know, excise then and then. The European Commission is clear and clear to tell you on 21 pages what measures Member States can use. We just adjusted the price of the fuel oil on the margin to 6 cents. Just like that, there's no other action. We're waiting, we're watching. Yes, when prices are high or when prices change, then you don’t have to monitor them anymore, then we have reached that ceiling, people will be faced with the fact: pay or don’t know what or cry. And it's really sad that we're talking, we're just talking, but we're not taking root measures. So once again, I was expecting, and I finally got cheered up, because today this government could just be bragging about this and that and we did it. I'm afraid that's not the case today. However, it is true that the President of the Government did not actually say anything, but he had lawyers on the side of New Slovenia and lawyers on the SMC side representing possible measures. And yes, when you're all talking so easily about switching suppliers. Yes, that's extremely easy to hear: yes, and switch suppliers. How's that gonna work? How can a pensioner who doesn't have relatives who, I'll just say, won't find out? That's the first one. How will the pensioner – I will say, and I do not speak in vain – who is not in a given situation, how will he replace the distributor or supplier? That's one thing. What about the other thing? How, though, will he replace the distributor who has a bond in the contract that must be tied up for a year? In particular, I can say for myself, I have such a contract that I am bound to a distributor. They can't replace me. I can't, but maybe I'd like to. It's not working. So explain to me here how we're going to change it or how it's that easy to say: change supplier. Actually, the debate really went back years. I don't want to talk about the past, we're talking about the future. Here's what we have to do. And today it was exposed several times to what we did in the 20s when we were in the government. Yeah, the exact price of electricity was somewhere in these frameworks to be able to live. We insisted on price regulation for as long as we had this power. There is a problem now; now, at this point. It is therefore necessary for the Government to present concrete solutions today. Unfortunately, she didn't do it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go. Ah, the replica. Boris Doblekar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Social Democrats, you obviously didn't understand me before I asked the question. I just asked you or this answer that you've been, I don't know, cheap or anything about electricity. Did the Social Democrats manage the electricity price line or what? Once again: I still haven't received an answer as to why you are talking about energy poverty only when you are in opposition. And what have you done in the last 20 years against energy poverty? We're talking about everything, not just the price of electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Mursich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u70	Yeah, when we run out, we go back when the arguments run out, we go back to the past. Social Democrats are not deceived by tax reforms, nor are we promising no idea of any dizzying high wages that people will then be able to pay for all these increases. We don't do that. We point out that, in fact, it is now necessary to regulate everything we are very well reminded of by consumer organisations proposing certain measures. I'm not going to list them for you, but maybe at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In fact, even on the opposition side, what our citizens and citizens want when the President of the Government enters the National Assembly was in fact properly exposed. They want clear and direct answers from him. And in such a case, as we speak today in essence about how to solve a problem, they actually expect it to come with a solution or at least try to explain to people how it will solve it or how it could be solved. There was nothing out of it today, I'm sorry. I could now tell you what is essentially the problem of the very rise in these energy prices and other fuels on the market, as well as the natural gas, for which I personally fear that the price, as everyone expects it to be reduced next year in 2022, I fear not. In view of the epidemic, given the price increase, including the storage of natural gas in the European Union, and also the flow or transmission itself, I fear that these natural gas prices will actually rise again. You can ask me next April or we can talk about this again and you will see that prices will go up to 30 percent in my opinion. Now I'm coming up with this other aspect or spectrum that we're talking about here today. As we say, people who listen to us, who look at us, our citizens and our citizens, want to see what is happening to us with a covid epidemic, to see some kind of ray of hope, or to give them a chance of hope that things will be better solved in the right direction. In this way, I fear that in reality things are further deepening and there is still some additional gap or crack between the people themselves and the country as such, in this case the Government, because the Prime Minister of the Government was here before. Those who work specifically in the field, but I don't mean just that as a populism of speaking or even saying it, in fact, there is a specific example here in terms of that; see, the pensioners who were in fact exposed more than once, and the pensioners in general, the first thing they do — I also know personally from these interviews or even from conversations — are the first to put their accounts aside and go to pay them. So, they pay them, and when they pay their bills, they start thinking about what they can put in a pot or what they can cook or what they can prepare for food. This is now the main aspect where we really need an urgent solution, some urgent action, some urgent push, including positive energy in terms of how we really help the weakest and even the most vulnerable right now, but not how we will help once in the future. In view of what the European Union has actually proposed to all members, it has already made it possible to discuss this price regulation, which we are talking about today. This is one of the options that the state could use, of course, sheepdogs are a good idea in terms of that, but this is not a solution. They will in fact be more supportive of these large suppliers, or even distributors, if you want them to actually get more money in their small ones, and in fact those who pay with these sheep will not be better off because prices remain higher, including products or products on the market will stand at a higher price. In fact, this way the country will also thrive, and it will also grow trees in this inflation area, which we will have to stretch or rescue for a while. As it is said, the matter we are talking about today has two aspects. The first aspect is this, it is said, how to regulate as soon as possible In my opinion it is absolutely necessary to regulate prices, because when we are actually talking about heating costs, when we are talking about transport costs or fuel costs, we are talking about fixed costs. [[…]] Mr Pogačnik can explain this wonderfully because I have listened to him about this once before, and he can further explain to you what I am talking about. These are the fixed costs that need to be addressed urgently, quickly, hic et nunc. I would really like to – and I hope that the last hope has not yet died – that it is now on the side of the government, and even on the side of the ministry, because Mr Vrotec should also have made such statements as he has made when he cannot afford such a level of electricity as to go to another operator. These are statements -- I don't know -- I'll be very honest with you -- about someone who might have stepped into the shoes of a minister for the first time. These are not serious statements, these are very unserious things. And I really hope that the government still has a better solution in store, which will produce results first. I hope so as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The topic, I think, is now that it is important to raise the price of energy not only for Slovenia, but for the European Union, Europe and the world. According to some recent data, for example, about 30 million citizens and citizens of the European Union have difficulties in paying their heating bills in the European Union. In Slovenia, the price of oil has not been undermined, the price of oil has risen on the world market and this is the reason for the increase in prices. It is not Janša’s fault; it is not John Janša’s fault that the price of oil on the world market has been undermined, but the opposition is somehow trying to show in particular that this government is responsible for raising prices. This government is not responsible for price increases, and I am convinced that today there is a significantly smaller difference between the price of oil derivatives in Slovenia and Austria than it was in the time, say when the government, the government coalition, consisted of Social Democrats. This is a big deceiving because we saw earlier by Mark Bandell when he showed graphs, how the price of oil was moving, what was the price of oil in dollars in 2013 and what was the price of oil in dollars today and comparable to the price on the Slovenian market. He forgot to mention here what was the value or the dollar ratio : the euro in 2013 and what was the dollar ratio today: the euro today, what was added to the retail price of oil or gasoline today and what was in 2013. Look, I am sure that both the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will do everything to protect those most vulnerable groups of people affected by these price increases, and that the Government has already announced the issue of so-called vouchers to cover the intermediate costs for those most affected by the rising prices of heating, and these are the most vulnerable groups of people. It should be mentioned that the government of Janez Janša has taken care of people and the most vulnerable groups at the time of the crisis, and I am sure that much work is being done in this area now. Once again, the prices of oil derivatives have increased on the market, and it is not the fault of the government of Janez Janša and the coalition, and it is working on everything that these incentives are burdensome. Many times today have mentioned an extreme increase in heating prices, such as in Trbovje. Comrade Soniboj Knezak highlighted this matter, and I think it was also exposed by Rudy Bear. Comrade Soniboj Knezak, I think this issue should be more than just for the Trbovlje Communal, why prices in Trbów have risen significantly above average than in other municipalities. I am sure that the response will be able to give you the Communal Trbovlje, that perhaps they have not done their job as well as they should, and that it has missed the acquisition of energy at a time when prices were low.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, colleague Pogačnik, if I can contact you directly when you spoke again about the fact that the deregulation of fuels – in particular in this case you highlighted the fuel oil – did not affect the price. You know, that's not true, because at the end of the day, the Minister of Economy himself pointed out that the margins of the combustion oil had risen, so much so that when he bought a thousand litres of heating oil, he knew 90 euros. That's huge. And thank God you're lucky that at least you've adjusted the fuel oil again, the height of the margins, and this will know the difference in price. But it is true, respected and respected, that you have done this much, much too late, and that this is in fact the only measure that this government has ever taken. But we'd expect a lot more. And once again, the smoking season began in most cities in late September. You re-regulated the fuel oil and thus influenced the price last week. Today we have actually sat for the fourth time or even the fifth time in the National Assembly, we have called for extraordinary meetings, we have asked questions from Members and today we are talking because this is how the National Assembly has asked about the question of Member Bojana Muršič to the President of the Government, about what you will do in particular. We should have acted yesterday, not today, not tomorrow. However, the President of the Government did not reply to one specific question, except what he had already said a month ago that some of the volunteers would be introduced. More than that, we don't know, you don't tell me when they're gonna be, who they're gonna be, who they're gonna be. Especially when they will. To understand this, it is necessary to provide a legal basis; to change, to introduce a new legal basis for this. This must be accepted by the National Assembly. Winter is here. I don't know if you'll be taking action in the spring when the season's over. You know, I'm talking about this ignorant attitude of the Prime Minister when he speaks his mind and leaves the Chamber. This really proves how important this subject is to him, the issue of energy poverty. And that, Comrade Doblekar, when you're constantly exposing and asking, you think that I don't know what you've done with this, what the Social Democrats have done with the field of energy poverty. There has never been such a situation as today in the history of independent Slovenia. And the Social Democrats we have proposed concrete solutions that you reject or I will not say reject them, ignore them, question them. We've been talking past each other for three hours. Since we ask and ask you all the time, we ask you to present concrete solutions, and you have some flags about the green transition and so on. People need help today, not tomorrow. Today. And tell me how you're going to help, tell me when those sheepdogs are going to be. If they are not the best solution, they are at least one of the possible solutions. Tell us when you will re-regulated fuel prices. When are you going to do that? On average, we pay 30 to 40 euros more for the tank today than we did a year ago before deregulation of motor vehicles. These are the facts, Mr. Pogačnik, these are the facts, that's true. And you're relativizing that there's nothing critical and no problem. Not for you, but for someone who lives on a minimum wage or on an average salary, but this is something that he knows. He is well aware if he has to give 30 Euros more for a fuel tank, if he is driving daily under emergency obligations and at work, because he cannot go through public transport. There's an average family that knows very well if it has to give more than 90 euros for a thousand litres of fuel oil, and it's a thousand liters too little, you know. This ignorance is really unacceptable. As a fellow Jew said, there stands a half-empty glass or bottle, but the President of the Government went away, I don't know, tweeting probably further insulting everyone else thinking. Wake up and do something because energy poverty is here and now, not once in the future! See how they react in other European countries. We're nothing. We're not doing anything! It's nothing! My colleague Bojana has asked you several times today what you have done. Nothing! What about the shepherds, when they will be — in the spring, for the big night, or when? When will you re-regulated the fuel prices for motor vehicles? We're really desperate, but I think the darkness is so important that I'm begging you again, calling, waking up and doing something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Before I give the replica to my colleague Pogačnik, I might remind you that burning oil is not the only heating agent. We have enough biofuels in Slovenia and we have been hearing only about the challenging fuels of the Sahara shakes all day. From those who are eco-conscious, I would expect a broader debate. I'll give the replica to my colleague Pogačnik first. How? They're both in the rules of procedure. [[talking to each other]] Here you go, Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u78	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Comrade Marko Koprivc, I don't think it's fair that this is how you conduct your debate without any reasonable arguments and everything. The government here at the prices of fuel oil reacted immediately. You're deceiving, I'd say, by liberalizing the prices of oil derivatives. In my opinion these prices are said to be liberalized only on highways. Other prices are valid, I'd say. The market is one that directs the price of oil, not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Social Democrats. I'm sure the matter will be rectified, that it's going to be the right way. Now, dear fellow Koprivc, if you really care so much about this poverty and everything, then I expect you to be among the first to support the law on income change. The Income Change Act will raise revenue for every citizen and citizen, employee, on an annual basis for one salary, without burdening either the economy or anything else. This is where I really expect you to say your support for this. However, it is necessary to look, perhaps, at the history of the oil derivatives movement and how the excise duties were moving. As I know, most of the excise duties were raised by your former Finance Minister Franci Križanič in 2008, and the second half of the year, early in 2009, when these prices flew to the sky. We need to look at who added to the burden of retail prices of petroleum derivatives. Who in 2014 was in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, I would say, added to the already burdened price of petroleum derivatives, I think a fee to support electricity producers? I'm sure the Social Democrats were in the government at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u79	Replica mags. Bojana Mursich. Procedurally, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u80	I have a procedural proposal, Mr President-in-Office. I have been in this room since 9 p.m. since the beginning of the debate, and since my colleague Koprivc had a debate and then you, I would say, had a debate too, I would really suggest that you sit in the bench, debate. I would very much like your discussions, and I don't hear them, and it really saddens me that you don't sit down, but when you're in the chair, you're having a session, not that you're discussing with us Members a topic that you could normally discuss from the bench. I suggest that the President that you stick to what you have to do, that you lead the session when you want to discuss it, and we will be happy to listen to you, and we will respond to yours as well. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u81	Look, buddy, I'm in charge of the session and I wasn't discussing it. I just warned the debaters that coal is not the only energy for heating and we have enough domestic biofuels in Slovenia, and no one is discussing it. No one, interesting. I just wanted to add or direct the debaters so that we could talk about anything else about heating up. So in this part, I would say that your intervention in business is completely unjustified. Mr. Koprivc, can I help you? [[advertising from the hall]] Replica had a colleague Pogačnik, so you won't get a replica in this part. That is why we are continuing the debate. The word is Eva Irgle. Checked out. Then it's Jura Ferrjan's turn. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u82	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members, distinguished Members and all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! One gets the feeling that the tendency of applicants or those who are currently discussing from certain sides is, above all, that the energy crisis or the rise in energy prices will only take place in Slovenia and that this is a problem created by this government. Just as you have tried in the last year and a half to show that covid-19 is the problem of this government and that it is not a pandemic and that it is not a global problem. Such a feeling occasionally comes when a person listens to you — some of you. But the facts are completely the opposite. Today, much has already been said about what is behind rising energy prices and, of course, other goods, including other things. On the one hand, we have, say, when we talk about the price of fuels, there is an increase in the base item, which concerns crude oil, i.e. basic energy, and, of course, a variety of additional taxes that come to this. Here is to a large extent the issue of this environmental element, green policy, green transition. At this point, of course, the key question is how to make this green approach and how to make it as many good, positive consequences as possible and not the other way around. It should also be pointed out that this government has not liberalised the prices of propulsion fuels, that this was done by another government and that in 2016 you, Social Democrats, were also in this government. At that time you liberalized all prices, including prices of heating oil, the exception was diesel and 95-octane gasoline on highways, which then happened last year. One important thing is also when we talk about margins. It has been said many times today, and since some do not, 6 to 7 percent represents a margin in the price of energy when we talk about it. 6 to 7 percent. Therefore, even if the margin were not, which is neither meaningful nor impossible, the essential price of energy for the final consumer, the retail price, would not change. This is also a fact that we must point out repeatedly, which we must be aware of, even though I believe it is opportunistic to say, yes, the government is guilty, the government has not done so, the government has done so and the government is guilty that the prices are what they are. It is not true and this can be illustrated in particular by this information that the margin affected by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia represents 6 to 7 percent of the price of energy. It also seems to me to point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, is monitoring this pressing issue, that discussions are taking place, that the measures are actually ready and that action will be taken as necessary in the light of the situation. Here, of course, is the role of the European Commission, i.e. the role of the European Union as an organisation, which can also look after Member States or with its elements. We have seen that the Recovery and Resistance Plan is one of the most important steps of the European Union, I can say, throughout its existence. And even in this area, the European Union can do much, much good with a common approach, with some common step. At the level of the European Union, the European Commission has already prepared a set of measures to be taken or recommended. Of course, then it depends on what the situation is and what can happen. We've also heard a lot of interesting things today. Some parties who consider themselves both open and liberal in this national assembly would like to fully regulate the market. So a person wonders little at this substantive level whether some things go together or not. Here, too, a step in this direction is reexamined when one person says something, does something, but thinks something completely different. Respected and respected! Because I'm about to run out of time, look, Mr Koprivc, you're saying that the government should wake up so that we can wake up. If anyone sleeps in this national council, it's you, Mr. Koprivc. You've been sleeping a communist dream for probably years. Respected and respected! Let me finish with this, look, the green transition is, in my opinion – look, Mr Soniboj Knezak, it hurts a lot, but you may be sleeping together in this symbolic sense that no one will get it wrong. But I want to get this over with. See, like fiscal policy, such a policy that must promote economic development and not restrict it, this green transition and green policy is also a policy that must promote a green transition that must bring the benefits of a green transition that is good both for the environment and, of course, for the development of the economy and the higher standard of living of people. In the end, that's all. Today, again in this national assembly, we hear many words about what needs to be done. Soon we will vote on the amendment of the Income Act, on long-term care, then you, the respected Social Democrats, will be on the move to improve life in Slovenia [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Replica mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u84	Yes, we are for state finances to remain stable, not for the third time that the government of Janez Janša has re-deployed them. Yes, we understand that green policy is being implemented, that the weather is a climate, climate crisis, which understands, by the way, even the Holy Father, understand all Mediterranean countries, Austria understands. But it is true that he does not understand this Hungarian and Warsaw. We don't want to be in this group! Never has the National Assembly decided to do so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I hope we can end up a little more calm. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today is an international day of tolerance. However, I continue to extend my sincere thanks to all those who deserve to have this debate today. It's extremely important. My wish is only one to give citizens and citizens a clear message and to ensure that, given that we are practically already in the winter or more precisely in the season, no one will be in the cold due to the encouragement of energy. Well, when we're talking about energy, I don't really have a fresh analysis, maybe someone has it, but from a study last year we find that we use five main sources of energy for heating in Slovenia. The share of biomass is 32 percent, says about one third, one fifth, 20 percent, the natural gas reaches 12 percent, electricity 10 and heat pumps 9 percent. In cities, of course, natural gas is stronger and in rural areas — what? Yes, wood! Well, there's a lot of talk about energy poverty, and no one's said a definition to this day because it's not. The concept of energy poverty in Slovenia is not yet legally defined and quantified. To this end, the Government will adopt a regulation which has a legal basis in the newly adopted Electricity Supply Act. In Slovenia, however, we already have a specific concept of a vulnerable customer and the protection of such a customer from disconnection, in accordance with the European legal order. This concept is called emergency care, which is intended to delay the disconnection of a vulnerable customer if such a disconnect would constitute a threat to the life or health of that customer or those staying with him. Urgent care is not intended for the regular care of socially disadvantaged citizens. We have social support for socially disadvantaged citizens, yes, we have social support, and energy is the market goods that need to be bought and paid. The costs of energy supply are real and cannot be eliminated simply by means of a magic wand. As for the operationality of this government and the confidence that we will ensure that no one will remain in this cold apartment, i.e. as regards the operationality of this government, I can say and repeat, within 100 hours of this government, within 100 hours of the oath in the National Assembly, this government brought the first package to the National Assembly, the legal package of course, to help people and the economy because of the terrible consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. And now specifically for energy. Some facts we don't have an impact on. I believe here, and I am sure that the applicants also agree. North Sea oil brent has been the most expensive in the last three years. The price of Texas oil, light oil, is at the highest level for the last seven years. The reason for the rise in oil prices is the general tension on the energy market. It is clearly not the fault of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase these prices. Let's look at the average citizen. Let's say his name is Andrei. I'm sorry, it's some imaginary citizen named Andrei. Andrew read that the price of fuel had risen considerably since the government had released them. Andrej is therefore, logically, angry at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all government parties. But he didn't look at the data or graphs that prove that the country is reducing its piece of cake in fuel. Let's not be like Andrei. Let's not be like Andrei, let's look at graphs and look at tables that show that at this very time, the country takes fuel, if I may say so, at least. But, thank God, we have a well-developed economy that is well-funded by the social state. We have a social state. And it is this social state that allows us to find with some satisfaction that the proportion of the population with less than half of the average income in our country, say for 2019, is extremely, extremely low. This share is extremely low. Or even more, Slovenia is at the very top of social inclusion. In fact, there is only Slovakia and the Czech Republic behind us. And when I say that we have a well-developed social state, we simply need to look at the website of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We have had this system of so-called extraordinary financial social assistance for quite some time. This appropriation is intended to cover exceptional costs relating to subsistence and cannot be covered by the family's own income or income. It is also intended if a person or family is found in a situation of material danger for reasons not affected. Now the height. A maximum of 402 euros per month is for a single, inactive person, or a maximum of EUR 106 per family, for example for a four-member family with two compulsory children and no job. Now the so-called supplement, among other things, or the aid for chicken. During the calendar year, a maximum of EUR 2 000 for a single, inactive person or a maximum of EUR 5 000 530 for the family, for example for a four-member family with two compulsory children and no employment, with three times the price awarded only for the purpose of earthquakes, floods, captures and so on – pay attention – and twice the price for the calculation of electricity, purchase of washing machines, stoves and so on. So we have mechanisms to keep nobody out of the cold. This will also be done by the State, the Government, in particular with important instruments. And this is my message to citizens and citizens – we will not let anyone freeze. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Andrei – I don't know any Andrei, my fellow Horvath, who would go to see the graphs when he gets cold, but go see if he has anything to put in the oven. And what Andrej can see at this moment from Slovenian politics is the current budget, and the funds for the financial social assistance that Andrei receives are being reduced in one way or another. So much for the intro. When we talk about the current energy crisis, we need to understand its political dimension. The fact is that the current government is not to blame for fuel, energy or their price being higher, which I think has come very clearly from the opposition benches today, but criticism is that the government is not responding. And that's what we're talking about today. That we found ourselves in this frenzy of energy poverty is a matter of government political decision. In fact, if we take on a lease with the fact that we are looking at only one of the ministers of this government, who, at this last stage, the third stage, has profited by deregulation of prices, I think that 60 000 euros as a shareholder of Petrol. That's all for information. And now let Andrej, let's say a citizen of Andrei sees how the government is prepared for its partisan interests, for its 60,000 euros in shares, to sacrifice, not prosperity, the survival of one's home, a citizen or a citizen, if necessary, to plunge into poverty. We can see that the script is very clear. Today we have mentioned several times my domestic Trbovlje, where energy prices have now risen by 75 per cent. We already have 260,000 people living below the poverty line. 100,000 of those pensioners, 40,000 of those kids. While the government comes with some winged ones to reduce the number of unemployed, let's look at the structure of these unemployed – but before, the poor were unemployed, now the poor are employed, probably in some strange chastity options, I don't know how. I guess people ask, they come, they organize charity concerts, these and other actions to help each other. Why? Because some Andrej citizen on the other hand sees how the government in the same breath gives hundreds of millions of troops, gives hundreds of millions of supplements to doctors to amphibians, gives hundreds of millions of vacations to the richest ones, drills 800 million holes in the state budget at the annual level – they are cold. Of course, the government cannot regulate fuel prices in the global market, but it can help its citizens. And at least as quickly as we saw it – someone from the coalition ranks boasted earlier about how the government came in in the first hundred hours with some intervention measures. Yes, of course, even in the first hour she changed the top of the police, the top of the Owl and so on. Came in with the first PKP, with a long list of some crows. Why doesn't he come with some PKP now and he says, here, we're going to pay the difference, we're actually going to help the people who are now in the grip of energy poverty. So, of course, I repeat, it is not the Government's fault that the price of fuels has risen globally – it is its fault because it does not react. It's because she doesn't react when she doesn't see that she can have her own profits or some gain from her own action. But people will be able to wait, as they say, for May.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which he will be given the floor by the proposer. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Although today's debate has turned a few times off the road, especially in the part where you started talking about the Income Act, how wages will be raised with the support that people will be able to pay these costs when they become higher. In this place, I have to touch on the fact that the disabled, who receive it, and the people on social assistance, as well as most of the pensioners from this Income Law will have nothing, will receive nothing higher than pension, nothing higher than disability and nothing higher than social assistance, and costs will be higher. And yes, we are in such a crisis that it is necessary to regulate the market today. There was a lot of talk about how nice it is to replace a distributor, and I've already said today that it's not that easy, especially if you have a contract for a year. But if you want to replace the energy, it's even harder for those in the most vulnerable positions or the most vulnerable population, because to replace the energy, you have to go all the way to the investment. And investments cost, I'll say, 2,000 euros ahead. That's what I think I paid very low prices for. It's not as simple as it sounds here today in this national assembly. If we wanted to or at least wanted to hear from the President of the Government today whether we are working under the Price Control Act, because the Price Control Act clearly speaks about what measures, what needs to be done. Article 6 clearly states that monitoring and analysis of price developments and preparation of implementing rules – I do not know – have received no response. Furthermore, in this article or in this law, we also have a reference to when the government can take action when it comes to serious market disturbances in price trends. It's not about seasonal movements today, but it's about mass accidents that happened. And simply here, the government has an argument that it can operate with these price control measures, it can set the maximum price, whereby companies, for example, cannot sell goods above that price, can under that price. They set firm fixed prices and must not sell at higher and not lower prices. They may then fix the minimum price, without companies being allowed to fix or accept lower prices. In fact, there are nine in the Price Control Act. I didn't hear anything to do with this marriage and somehow coordinate. I also wanted to hear what this committee or consultative working body was made up of. The price control law is clear. In order to ensure future coordination of the position on the regulation of price control measures, the Price Council, the expert advisory body on price control issues, is working at the Ministry. I didn't find this world, and I went all over the website. That's why I wanted the Prime Minister to introduce me today. It does exist. We have one representative from the Ministry of Price Control, one on the basis of the competent Minister of Finance, four on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce, then who is this representative from the Office of Competition Protection, who from consumer protection is involved in who those two independent experts are. I didn't hear that today, and I wanted to be taught exactly how this expert commission is doing, what it is preparing, and when we can expect action, because in fact people need action now, today, immediately. If we were yesterday, it would be too late. Which turned out to be an oil regulation anyway. The ones who got the oil three weeks ago. 11th, they paid around 150 euros for a thousand litres of fuel oil more than those who bought the fuel oil today. These are differences and these are big differences. If the Government were to act immediately, when I was actually asking the question of the Member State, the next day and the regulation would enter into force, something could still be left in the pocket of consumers, people, citizens and citizens and could somehow spend that money elsewhere. It really seems sad to me that in the midst of the crisis between those Member States that will remain and share in the European Union, Slovenia will be the last, most famous places in the update, efficiency and quality of assistance to the people and the economy. We've talked about the tables. Slovenia's not on it because we haven't even got one hook. And yes, for consumers, people, citizens and citizens, it will indeed become a choice between food and heating, this is now, so it would be important for the President of the Government today to answer clearly and loudly what measures this government will take. I expected, of course, for the first time, that the Government, with clear criteria and also numbers, would evaluate the measures that people not only want, almost should have, as much as they can promise these state aids, which these groups will be able to settle in the coming winter times. Secondly, in the direction of whether the State will take measures towards lower taxation of related goods with energy, electricity and key also by regulating the prices of oil derivatives. For the oil derivatives are the ones that drive the precious, the precious among the people. Everyone's turning, everyone's making calls – do you hear us? The latter even advertise, for they say that prices simply go up into the sky and that is simply not good. I would also expect the Government to oppose any speculative rise in electricity prices and other goods, particularly for those companies with a significant share of ownership. And I am a constant mantra of how this government helps people in the epidemic, how very successful economic recovery is. Unfortunately, they will burn before the end of winter, if the government does not now – but I do not know how many times I have already repeated it – immediately take concrete solutions to help people and the economy. The economy is also in great straits with these enormous irritations of electricity and other goods. I believe we could talk about this. I had a lot to say, time is running out at the end of the day, but I would like to thank all my colleagues and colleagues who contributed their voice so that today we could talk about this problem, which is pressing, because if we waited for the coalition, the coalition would not do so because they are unfortunately not interested in pensioners and people at the bottom of the system who are forgotten in the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. [[Yeah.]] I take it it's an interest. If she'd like to discuss it with the Magi's proponent. Bojana Muršič, please report by pressing the key to turn on the microphone, in which case he gets the word as the last. We've got eight panellists reported, just a moment, everybody gets a minute of 27. The first one is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, look again at the speech or response of the President of the Government or maybe take down the magnetogram, so that you will be able to understand more easily what security has told you without hair in the language, with arguments and, in fact, as is currently the case in Slovenia, Europe and the world as regards the question you have set for today. I asked you once more, and I really want an answer, and I'm very interested in that answer. First of all, why do you always talk about so-called energy poverty only when you are in opposition? Why don't you talk about it when you're in government? For 20 years you have been in the governments of Slovenia and before 50, 60 or 70 years in the former country. Why don't you talk about so-called energy poverty when you're in government? And what exactly did you do in the 20s when you knew that there would be energy poverty or that there would be problems, what did you actually do, what measures did you take for people to not have to talk about today? And I will also express this surprise at the end of the debate that I am surprised that, on such an important issue, the proposers themselves, four, five are sitting in the Chamber – where are you remaining Members on such an important issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Look, we're in the SAB party one of the first ones to point out that energy prices are rising. We have asked the Member of Parliament and the Minister in due time on these matters. We have also highlighted the issue of switching natural gas suppliers in facilities with a common boiler, and that this is difficult and that residents in such blocks are very difficult and difficult to exchange natural gas suppliers. And when we asked how many natural gas customers are in such blocks where they are heated through a common boiler, that is, where one is a pay-as-you-go place, and over that it warms up 20, 30, 50 apartments, how do these users change the natural gas supplier in an efficient way, of course we haven't got a clear answer; it's just that it's a matter of manager and agreement with the tenants. Of course, the problem is very complex, it is necessary to obtain and create one social profile of the average customer and, on the basis of this, also to foresee how these incentives will affect its ability to pay for energy. This government is not prepared and cannot act in this way, and this is why we have had this important meeting today, where we have highlighted and addressed these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The incredible response that can be detected, at least by those accompanying this meeting today, I have been told for some time now that I have received so many notifications at the time of this debate: either on Facebook or via messages and mail. So, the pressure of people is great. It is said that there were not a few hours of demagogism today, but a reminder of the serious problem faced by citizens and citizens of this country. It is extremely humiliating because it is also in these responses, which I have received and will also send to the President of the Government, and his statement on the subject is 250,000 citizens and citizens living below the poverty line, and demagogy. Unfortunately, there is no demagogy, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, which is the cruel reality of many families in this country today. And something else they pointed out, a few of which I got, that the pensioners in particular had quite a problem replacing these energy suppliers. It is not that simple, I think, that it has already been said several times, so not to expect that all people are with us, especially the pension population, skills and computers and search on websites and that. So let's not make fun of each other. I hope and expect that, on the basis of this debate today, the Government will also take appropriate measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, get Moica the Boxer ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The fact that the theme is right shows the right side when he's trying to tell us what happened in the last 20 years. By the way, we have a country of 30 years, and we do not say what has happened in the last twenty months of the Janša government, nor do we say what you would like to say about what happened in the previous common country. We don't even talk about it in Quarantine or in the Kingdom once, even though we could talk about it, because we would have seen how the ruling elite in Ljubljana left Maribor and General Maistra behind. That's what I'm saying because it's gonna be the 23rd of November, General Maister's day. I'm talking about how to let go of those who, due to carelessness, will remain in the cold, and that's not necessary. The European Union has itself given us as a crop leaf for those students who do not understand when they are told to prescribe what needs to be done to keep people safe. And what's interesting is that this crop leaf has taken 20 countries into account. The country, which is currently leading the European Union in some way – very undetected, everyone is looking forward to the end, we have done a very great shame – and this leaf crop does not want to read it. Talk about what we're gonna do. Yeah, it's cold people who don't care! They're cold now! He can help with a lot of things and he won't help himself! You were telling yourself how quickly you helped when you copied a few things from Austria. That was great if it wasn't for the set-up. But here people who are not to blame for your fault, not our faults, but because the energies are growing, there is a great danger that they will get cold, they can help right now and they don't want to. By the way, when I was talking about an empty bottle, I wanted the Prime Minister to come back, not to move the bottle away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrnjar has the word to prepare Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you very much. You said the government doesn't have the measures ready, which is a big lie. The president said well that he has a ready-made action, wolves, energy wolves for the most vulnerable groups. He also said that, in the extreme case, margins would be low, and he also said that he had formed working groups preparing measures. So it is necessary to answer questions from the outside, and I think this is what this government is doing. This has been proved by the laws of the CAP, which have been fast and effective, so today we have one of the biggest GDP growth in the European Union and we have one minimum unemployment rate and I think the lowest unemployment rate in Slovenia at all. By the time this government takes care of the people, she's already proved it. Three-quarters of the time, which were left governments, you were Social Democrats in governments, and if wages are low, pensions are low, it's not from yesterday, it's from these years. Also, write down your credits for this. It is, in this way, to speak and attribute everything now this year and a half, it is pure hypocrisy and populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Podkoršek, to prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Once again, say hello to all your colleagues and colleagues! In my position to the SDS Group, I pointed out earlier that it is much easier to ask questions in this National Assembly and also in life to answer them than to answer them. And what have we learned all morning, especially after the presentation of the Prime Minister, Mr Janša? That this question, which was raised, had already been answered by the Government. But don't write your lips, but an answer that will come to people. This is cash assistance, energy vouchers and social assistance through a security supplement. This seems to me to be a key conclusion of this morning's meeting, these points and above all this issue. Nobody's poor overnight. If that happens to anyone, the neighbors, the Red Cross, Karitas. It is our joint task, and above all these governments, that no one, my colleagues on the other hand, will be in the cold this winter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot and her mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If I can just get in touch with my buddy. So, the fact is that today, colleague Bojana Muršič has given you a lot of answers about how to respond to energy poverty; that she has described real situations to you, she told you that people will decide whether to get warm or eat. People are facing a dilemma of whether to warm up or buy food. Do we understand what we're talking about? And if the answer is to take care of Karitas and the Red Cross, then the situation is really abject. Instead of talking about real issues, about real life, about the fact that our people are waiting for this winter, the old-fashioned coalition, of course, has started by confusing what has been going on for the last 20, 30 and 70 years, and I don't know how many years since the Social Democrats were there. Now, the fact is that the Social Democrats have always been actively engaged in dialogue both on energy poverty and on the issue of poverty resolution in general. Today, however, it is the responsibility to resolve the issue in question at the coalition. And if your answer is what you've been doing for the last 20 years, the one you think is legitimate, then the whole debate today is obviously very absurd and obviously you haven't heard the answers of your colleague Muršič. And you're obviously still full of questions about what someone else's been doing, but you're not taking responsibility for what you're doing. And it would be time for you to take over.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. And as the last one, he gets the word "magic." Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We're closing now. The point that was being said was the government's actions, which should have been to work. And about what the SD has done in the past 20 years, I suggest, as far as you are concerned, that a committee meeting should be convened and this can also be clarified on this committee, as far as you are concerned. But today it was intended to get answers from the government, the president of the government, what people can expect and where we are. The measures should be on the table today and should be implemented by now. And yes, because I am also a Christian brought up, allow me to quote the part of the Father who says, “Give us our daily bread” – today people need bread – “and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us all the wicked. [[…]] Amen.’.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. IN 3. Agenda item - PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2022 AND SUPPLEMENTED PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2023. In the context of agenda items 2 and 3, the National Assembly will first carry out joint introductory presentations and joint presentations of the views of the delegations on the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023. The draft acts have been tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Magi to further explain both proposals. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u108	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the budget documents, i.e. amending or amending the budget for 2022 and the budget for 2023. In accordance with the legislation, it is the Government which submits the basic budgetary acts for adoption by the National Assembly. In fact, these basic acts set out the entire financial, economic, social, development policy of the country in 2022 and 2023. In 2022, exceptional financial conditions apply [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u109	[[There's a riot in the hall.]] Dear fellow Members, I respectfully ask that you do not disturb the speaker when he speaks. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to interrupt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Whereas the preparation of budgets itself took place during or under the circumstances of the gradual recovery of the economy and in situations where life still has a significant impact on work, covid-19. [[…]] I'm sorry, it's still affecting. As a result, the so-called general derogation clauses still apply in the financial field. This means, in other words, that the criteria laid down in the Fiscal Rule Act or in other words the derogation from these rules are not applicable, which means that they are exceptional circumstances and that the basic articles referring to the Golden Fiscal Rule as a difference are simplified in a consistent manner, between revenue and expenditure, that this does not apply; not only in Slovenia, this does not apply in Europe as a whole. And the European Commission has also concluded that even in 2022 there will be no fiscal rule and a general derogation clause will be established. The pandemic has affected not only the business of the economy and the financial framework in Europe, but the budget for 2022 and 2023 is being prepared worldwide and in these circumstances. In fact, in Europe too, all European countries are witnessing increased expenditure. These expenditure is intended primarily for health care on the one hand and, on the other hand, for reduced income mainly in 2021. These revenues are increasing in 2022, according to the assessment of the European Commission and also the International Monetary Fund, mainly because Europe first adopted large-scale fiscal measures, which were also accompanied by monetary policy, with an expansionary monetary policy, in other words an expansion and monetary policy, operated in Europe hand in hand. Of course, this is reflected in deficits; there is also a shortage of Slovenia, which has increased in particular, in most cases, due to increased expenditure on health or protection of people, to protect lives. The so-called structural deficit, which has already been discussed in the National Assembly, is certainly worth stressing, and it should be said that the assessments of the structural deficit at the time of the general derogation clause are not assessed or assessed by individual countries on the basis of this criterion, but the so-called structural deficit is calculated for all countries. And certainly there is a need to pay attention to the structural deficit, as it is to the deficit, but a little later. It must be said here that certain rules are in force in the European Commission and at European level both in terms of fiscal and monetary policy and that, on this basis, it will also be within the ECOFIN Council, as well as within the other committees, the European Commission will draw up fiscal policy guidelines for the coming period. On the basis of these guidelines, fiscal scenarios will be made possible in the stability programmes. In short, we can talk about two stages here. The first step is for countries to come below 3% of the deficit – I am talking about a nominal deficit – and on this basis countries will have to comply with the rules to be laid down in the Stability and Growth Pact and thus influence public finances by establishing a time frame for each country to prepare public finances for the basic situation; it is said that public finances will be balanced. Over the next few years, when the co-vid crisis is over, procedures are also being prepared for how the deficit, public debt and so on to be framed within the framework of fiscal rules. However, it must be said that ECOFIN has already begun a discussion on fiscal rules with the basis of fiscal rules and on the basis of fiscal rules, including the real situation in which countries are located. In fact, the reality is that six countries have a higher debt relative to the gross social product of 100 per cent, and such a reality needs to be taken into account. What is important is that the European Union has fully responded to the co-pid crisis. That is, for the first time in history, the European Commission has committed itself to international financial markets and has issued a bond on these international financial markets and has drawn up recovery and resilience plans on this basis. Slovenia has already received an advance from this title, which means that the recovery of the economy is designed to maintain economic growth also through new investments, in particular investments in green, clean environment and digital ones. On this basis, it is also said that public debt and deficits should be reduced by growth and full employment. Certainly, it must also be said that the current crisis differs significantly from previous crises and it is difficult to compare both the causes and consequences. First, this crisis is a sectoral crisis and has affected different sectors of the economy. As we know, tourism, catering activities, as well as events organisation activities have been the most affected, and this has also meant that the most money is devoted to these sectors. On the other hand, compared to the year when the financial crisis took place, we have a robust and good financial system or banking system, the capitalisation of banks is appropriate, minimally poor loans. Of course, this crisis has also affected equality or inequality, and older people have been more affected in this crisis, and women's activity has decreased, and young people have been affected, and this must also be responded to. In doing so, Slovenia remains a country with one of the lowest levels of inequality and according to the latest OECD data had one of the stronger real income growth per capita, which was 6.2 per cent in the second quarter of 2021. In France, for example, 0.6 percent, in Germany 0.2 percent, Austria 2.1 percent. This is only about the impact both fiscal and monetary policies have on the degree of inequality or in our case, rather, the degree of equality. We have witnessed in the last period – and this, of course, has to be taken into account by the Government in the budget documents – a greater risk of rising prices, especially energy. That's what you've been talking about here today, Your Honor. And both the European Central Bank and the US Central Bank, as well as some other central banks, such as the English Central Bank, are predicting that prices will settle in the first half of 2022. Slovenia has responded to the crisis with costly fiscal measures. The effects of these fiscal measures are as follows. In the opinion or assessment of Umar, these measures prevented a further drop in gross social product or economic growth by 4 percentage points. This is said to have prevented a major decline in economic growth through these measures. We have provided better employment than we had before the crisis, that is to say, better employment than it was in 2019. Fewer companies have gone bankrupt or into procedures that, of course, mean the departure of companies from the market, and we have created additional jobs, which, of course, also creates less unemployment. This is recognised by the international institutions and, finally, is proved by the statistics identified by independent institutions. Here, of course, it must be said that the measures – compensation for wages for waiting for work at home, subsidisation of the increase in the minimum wage, solidarity allowances – have mainly protected vulnerable groups and, of course, also provided some support to the health and social system or public servants. This response of the economy to these measures also shows, of course, that on the one hand, the performance of the economy is good. Here we can look at both the profits of companies and from this title also income from profits or incomes, as well as of course consumption, private consumption that rises, in this respect also the value added tax. In relation to the measures, it is certainly necessary to say that these measures have not only mitigated the consequences of the crisis, but have removed administrative obstacles through structural measures, improved access to funding sources, as well as bank credits. Cooperation between research organisations and the economy has increased and the transition to the circular economy has been systematically supported. Here, of course, it must also be said that it has improved significantly and is also improving in 2022 and in 2023 the position of municipalities, particularly in terms of funding. And these budget documents are listed, I will say, taking into account the amounts of the averages for the municipalities and allowing for greater investment by the municipalities, in particular by the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Here I would like to stress the particular importance of local communities, and so it will also be in the future with regard to averages and, of course, also with regard to the use or greater investment at the level of municipalities. Slovenia's GDP grew faster between 2021 and 2023 than on average in the Eurogroup countries, also faster than in the United States, the United Kingdom and Japan. Real GDP growth thus increased by 6.4 per cent, which is 1.4 per cent more than on average in the euro area. Here, of course, it must be said that the main elements that make up GDP, such as consumption, gross investment, fixed assets, imports, grew faster than in the euro area, by more than 5 percentage points. State consumption has grown more slowly compared to these countries. The Slovenian cumulative real growth over the period 2021-2023, to which the two budgets relate, is set at 2022 and 2023, is to exceed the euro area by 2.4 percentage points and most in the field of gross investment. In other words, these two budgets are investment oriented. Investments, which I will talk about a little bit later, are the foundations that mean not only recovery, but also the resilience of the economy. In short, here we can see that fiscal policy and monetary policy, which I have described, are growing all the essential components of GDP or economic development faster than on average in the euro area. The number of unemployed or the number of employees also increases faster than in the euro area, in the period 2021-2023, is said to be what these budgets apply on average by 0.4 percentage points per year. This also means, of course, that the unemployment rate of around 3 percentage points will be lower than in the euro area and will be 4.6% in 2021 and 4.4% in 2023. Inflation is estimated to be lower than in the euro area by approximately 0.7% lower than inflation in the euro area, which is expected to be 1.7%. Recovery is also expected to be faster in Slovenia from a global perspective than in other countries, also comparable to that in Great Britain, Japan and the United States. The deficit of the country will be reduced by the Government from an estimated 7.5 per cent of the gross social product in 2021 to 5.4 per cent of the gross social product in 2022 and approached by the current Maastricht border, 3 per cent in 2023. At that time, it was expected to amount to 3.3 per cent of the gross social product. In 2024 the government estimates that the country's deficit will fall below 3%, it is said that this year the Maastricht criteria will be achieved. Once again, I stress that the European Commission is preparing a starting point for achieving the Maastricht criteria, which are to take place over a number of years, that is to say, the approximation of the Maastricht criteria is to take place over a number of years and not at a time when the withdrawal clause is no longer in force. In other words, nothing dramatic will happen in 2023, because in 2022 a plan will be prepared to approach current or future Maastricht criteria. Therefore, all predictions based on the fact that something is about to happen at once and that all of a sudden, I don't know who, on public finances, will not happen in Europe. Here, too, I would like to point out that so much has changed European policy, both fiscal and monetary. I mentioned an increase in investment by more than one third in 2022, if I am precise, by 35.3%, and in 2023 these investments should remain at the same level. Above all, these investments are at the expense of increasing the European Union's funding both for the conclusion of the past financial perspective and for the start of drawing on the new financial perspective, and in particular, as I have already mentioned, the drawback of the recovery and resilience mechanism. State sector expenditure would be reduced by 2.7 per cent without taking into account investment expenditure in 2022 compared to 2021, the balance would be positive and would amount to 1.4 per cent of the gross social product. In 2023, however, the expenditure of the sector would be reduced by 0.5 per cent without taking into account investments in 2022 and the surplus of the country would already be 3.1 per cent of the gross social product. In other words, with this data, I want to illustrate the role of investments, of course investments, which are generally considered to be a higher yield than an interest rate, and, of course, that these investments also have a long-term impact. Higher revenues also have a favourable impact on the balance of the sector. In 2022 it is estimated to increase by 5.3 per cent year-on-year and 9.5 per cent year-on-year. In other words, revenues in 2022 will increase by almost 10 per cent compared to 2019. Here I am reminding you that I am not taking 2020 into account because 2020 is about this, I will say, a year that does not show normal revenues due to the cot crisis. Of course, revenue growth will be the largest contributor to tax revenues, which will increase by 4.5 per cent, or 3.6 per cent, in 2019 and in 2023 will increase by 5.4 per year or 9.2 per cent, depending on 2019. In other words, because of the favourable economic climate, investment climate will increase consumption, VAT will increase. As a result of the favourable employment climate, income will increase and favourable business opportunities will increase the tax on legal persons' income. Of course, it is also possible to reduce the deficit from this point of view. The special chapter that I want to say, and I want to illustrate, of course, is the debt owed to the country's consolidated debt vis-à-vis gross social product. This criterion, this criterion is internationally recognised and debt is expected to amount to 77.5% of gross social product in 2022. This debt is expected to fall to 76 % of the gross social product in 2023. In 2019, before the pandemic, the level of indebtedness of the sector of the Republic of Slovenia by 18 percentage points of gross social product was lower than the average indebtedness of the euro area countries – at that time the average debt of the euro area was 83.6 percent – and at the same time it was also 11.6 percentage points lower than the average of the European Union countries. During the budget period 2022 to 2023, this difference between the average debt in the European Union and in the euro area will increase – and Slovenia. The projected level of indebtedness of the State sector will be lower by 21 percentage points than the euro area average by the end of 2023 and by 13.1 percentage points lower than the European Union average. I have already mentioned that there are six countries in the euro area that have a higher debt than 100 per cent. In other words, debt growth will decrease in Slovenia as a percentage of gross social product according to the European Union average. This means that Slovenia is reducing this debt more decisively than the average of the euro area countries and the European Union. The largest share in the consolidated debt of the sector is the sovereign budget debt and, of course, the trend of the average interest rates should also be considered. The trend of the average interest rate is declining for Slovenian debt, the direction of development is negative, and the cost of this debt is decreasing. Interest is estimated at 673 million and 1.3 per cent of the gross social product in 2022, at 654 million and 1.2 per cent of the gross social product in 2023, which is significantly lower than interest in 2014, when these expenditure amounted to a billion and 83 million. At that time, this amounted to 2.9 percent of the gross social product. The special value here is mainly the long-term issue of 30-year euro bonds in October 2020, with the required yield of 0.493 per cent and 60-year euro bonds in January 2021. Both transactions are significantly positive from the point of view of the contribution to the extension of the average time of the debt portfolio bonding and, of course, the interest rate reduction in this respect. In other words, it is a long-term confidence expressed by investors in Slovenia, Slovenia, and, of course, they define investors in Slovenia as an investment safe country. Here we can also talk about a 10-year-old euro bond that ensures sustainable financing according to the criteria of economic, social and green, which means, in other words, that we support both environmental and social objectives by doing so. An important message, which is the basis for this budget in 2022 and 2023, is also credit ratings. So I can see that this way Standard&Poor's, Fitch, Moody's, DBRS and so on maintain historically high ratings and these ratings also confirm that Slovenia is an investment safe country. The budgets for 2022 and 2023 represent progress in state funding for investments. If in 2019 the budget expenditure for investments was 938 million and in 2020 911 million, then in the budgets for 2022 and 2023 investment expenditure is over EUR 2.2 billion per year. Special projects or more important projects are actually projects in the field of all ministries, both in the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, where they plan to purchase a new transport helicopter. The Ministry of Defence is planning to acquire new defence funds, the Ministry of Justice will focus on a new judicial building. For economic development and technology – this ministry will promote investment, entrepreneurship, municipal infrastructure, including with the Roma population. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will focus on equipping agriculture and wood processing plants. Infrastructure – we can talk about a new second track to be financed by budgetary resources. It is also the construction of a second track on the route Maribor-Šentilj, the construction of the third development axis between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec and around the New Town. The Ministry of Environment and Space plans primarily investments in the anti-floating security of Drava, Selska Sore and Gradašćica. New investments are also planned in the area of Ljubljana and Ljubljana. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will focus its powers on new buildings for the reconstruction of homes for the elderly and social welfare institutions. There will be a lot of investment in health care: UKC Celje, Emergency Centre Ptuj, Center for the Treatment of Children's Disease Šentvid at Stična. In the field of education, science and sport, there are also numerous investments from the National Institute of Biology and, of course, investments in infrastructure facilities in education, kindergartens. It will also invest in culture, cultural monuments, museums, film and audiovisual art projects and will also finance or co-finance the state with the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly have a favourable financial and economic situation in view of Europe's monetary policy. Because of this and, in particular, the investment budgets and the policies of Europe in this regard, we have the opportunity to provide a higher standard of living for people, to make the country of Slovenia even more life-friendly. We also have a unique opportunity to improve the business environment for investment and entrepreneurship, particularly in green and digital terms. This, of course, means a new opportunity to improve the quality of social protection, education, create better conditions for athletes, in order to achieve the best possible sports results, to increase the visibility of Slovenian culture and science. However, honourable Members, there is also a great risk. And this risk is the virus, especially the spread of the virus, which mainly affects human capacities in health care. That is why, as a finance minister, I ask you, as well as all citizens and citizens, residents and residents of Slovenia, to do everything we can to prevent the spread of the virus. The spread of the virus is today the greatest risk for the development of Slovenia. That is why I ask you to overcome solidarity and sensitivity in all of us and to do everything we can to prevent the spread of the virus. The easiest way to do this is to vaccinate ourselves to protect ourselves, our loved ones, and our surroundings. Let's not let covid-19 virus take away this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to develop. And that is why I urge you once again to give yourself a vaccine, because only if we prevent the spread of the virus will we succeed and we will do everything we can to further develop Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you, too. Procedural, Mr. Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm sorry. This procedural proposal will be more than a warning or a request. I've been to a few budgets in the National Assembly when we adopted them, and I don't understand why there are no ministers in this National Assembly today; ministers who could somehow respond to the amendments, to our proposals and so on. It is also a matter of respect for the Minister of Finance. Now sit alone. There used to be the Director of Budget, State Secretaries and so on. Today, the minister sits alone, and we're talking about billions of debts. And I find it extremely unrealistic that today ministers or secretaries of state are unfortunately not in the National Assembly. It's also for Members and Members of Parliament. That's what I had to say. Vice-President, this should be a well-intentioned exercise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Yes, and our Rules of Procedure speak: even if there are no government representatives. We're moving on with our work. The draft acts were dealt with by the Committee on Finance as the parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 65th emergency meeting on 13 November this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for adoption and consideration. The Committee considered 55 duly tabled amendments tabled by various parliamentary groups to the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the following year. The 13 amendments were incorrectly tabled, and the three amendments were withdrawn. In its introduction, the Minister of Finance presented the circumstances in which the proposal was drawn up. He drew attention to the great impact of covid-19 epidemics, which are mainly adapted to expenditure. He explained that even in 2022 there will be a general derogation clause or exceptional circumstances regarding the fiscal rule. Fiscal policy promotes economic development and business and protects jobs, and, unlike past economic crises, monetary policy is followed by fiscal policy. In particular, the Minister stressed that this type of fiscal policy has led to or generated a high rate of economic growth. The President of the Council of State stated that the draft budget amendments had been considered twice by the Council of State. He then presented a written opinion highlighting in particular the area of local self-government, where there is a great understanding of the Government's functioning and funding of municipalities. The President of the Council of State also presented an additional opinion on why less resources were allocated to the Council of State in 2022 than originally agreed. The President of the Fiscal Council stated that the conditions for the existence of exceptional circumstances were also met in 2022. He explained that exceptional circumstances only allow for flexibility in fiscal policy when it comes to the challenges associated with the epidemic. He drew attention to some of the risks that could lead to a structural deterioration in public finances. Some legislative proposals currently under consideration in the National Assembly could also have a negative impact on public finances. The Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development said that the basis for amending the budget was their autumn forecast, where 4.7% of economic growth was foreseen. The analysis is based on assumptions that are practically consistent with the assumptions of the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission. As key factors, it highlighted exports, private consumption, investment and employment growth. The President of the Council of Justice stressed that the Government had reduced the integrated funds for the Courts and the Council in 2022 and thereby reduced the capacity of the judiciary to carry out some of the tasks already envisaged and in the future. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee presented their views on the Draft amending budget for 2022. Both support and opposition were expressed. Some members and members have highlighted a developmental orientation that, through high-multiplicity investment, promotes the economy and jobs. It was pointed out that this is an investment in the future, while taking into account the social and health aspects. On the other hand, individual members and members highlighted the level of the budget deficit and the projected expenditure of the budget, and in this light they were particularly interested in the usefulness of the planned expenditure. It has been highlighted that this is non-productive consumption beyond the absorption capacity of the economy. On the other hand, the minister provided additional explanations. He also pointed out that macroeconomic indicators need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, taking into account current situations which are significantly different from those of the previous economic crisis. After a discussion on the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and supported the five amendments. Following the debate and the vote on the amendments, the Committee on Finance adopted the following decision: The Committee on Finance took note of and supported the proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. At its 64th emergency meeting, held on 12 November 2021, the Committee on Finance, as its parent labour, considered the supplementary draft budget for 2023. 41 amendments have been submitted to the Committee, which have been tabled by various parliamentary groups to the supplementary draft budget. The 6 amendments were incorrectly tabled, of which 5 amendments were withdrawn. In its introduction, the Minister of Finance presented the supplementary draft budget and explained that the proposal was prepared on the basis of Umar's announcement, and also said that a withdrawal clause on fiscal rules had not yet been established or envisaged for 2023. He presented some macroeconomic data on economic growth, public debt, investment and mentioned that expenditure growth will be lower. The objective is to ensure economic growth and employment with appropriate fiscal policies. With regard to the financial system and its stability, the Minister stressed in particular that the financial system is stable. The President of the Fiscal Council stated that the Fiscal Council had already made a comprehensive assessment of the budgetary documents transmitted to him, pointing out the deficit in the country's sector, which would otherwise be reduced by EUR 800 million, also highlighted the smaller current expenditure, where the Fiscal Council felt that there was a lack of presentation of measures. He estimated that public debt would remain at a high level, slightly below 80 per cent of gross domestic product. The Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development said that the latest European Commission economic growth forecasts for the next three years are fully in line with the Office's forecast of 6.4 per cent for 2022 – the pardon for 2022 is projected to increase 4.2 per cent of GDP, and for 2023 this growth will be 3.5 per cent of gross domestic product. The President of the Council of Justice highlighted the issue of pending cases in the courts which resulted from an epidemic of covid and could be resolved by the employment of 30 new co-workers. These are unresolved matters in some sensitive areas, such as criminal, family and administrative matters. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee presented their views on the 2023 supplementary draft budget. Here too, some members and members felt that the supplementary draft budget was not realistic, that wrong priorities were wrong, and that expenditure was being reduced too quickly and their assessment was unrealistically assessed. They drew attention to the high deficit and public debt and the related sustainability of public finances. On the other hand, some other members and members of the Committee felt that the supplementary draft budget was development-oriented, to be seen from priority areas such as infrastructure, digitisation, health and competitiveness. Regarding indebtedness, Slovenia is below the average of the European Union. With regard to public debt, however, it was pointed out that it was important why it had increased, which is, of course, due to the co-existence of the crisis and the financing of job conservation. It has been pointed out that the proposal for the 2023 Supplemental Budget, given the time distance, will certainly be amended as well. On the other hand, the Minister made further clarifications on the concerns and questions raised in the debate. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the Additional Draft State Budget for 2023, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and supported the three amendments. After discussion and decision on the amendments, the Committee on Finance adopted the following decision: The Committee on Finance supports the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you, too. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u116	Dear Members and Members, distinguished Minister, representatives of the Government! Today we are discussing the budget proposals that set up a framework for planned state revenue and expenditure for the next two years. The proposal for amending the budget for 2022 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023 are thus two key documents that will guide the further development of our country. But there have been still unpredictable pandemic circumstances, which significantly increase the systemic risks that are present all the time. These are mainly demographic challenges, or the ageing of the population. Moreover, the new uncertain circumstances also represent inflationary movements and disruptions in supply chains of certain strategic goods. In recent months, all ministerial departments under the auspices of the Modern Centre Party have also actively engaged and participated in the preparation of these budgetary documents. As coalition partners, we estimate that a solid or ambitious financial agreement has been reached in the joint effort of all key stakeholders. This agreement, in the form of a financial plan, provides the basis for solving the most pressing problems of our society: to stabilise the health situation, to develop infrastructure, transport and digital connectivity, to protect the most vulnerable social groups, and in particular, in the SMC, we are also working to strengthen knowledge and science and economic potentials with higher added value, with a focus on green transition and accelerated digitisation. It is true that a certain part of the budget expenditure is still intended to remedy the consequences of the pandemic, as it has had an uneven impact on the development of various parts of our society. It is logical that the State must ensure that this unevenness is mitigated and that the unevenly distributed burden of those social groups and economic sectors that have suffered the worst consequences is also adequately mitigated. However, the rest of the budget documents for the next two years are extremely investment-oriented. Public investment in education, in health facilities, in infrastructure and transport connectivity and in economic capacities are, according to our assessment, the key development potential of our country. For example, the planned funding of the Ministry of Education and Sport, according to previous plans for 2022, is increasing by almost 10 per cent. This follows a strategy that puts the knowledge society at the forefront, both by acquiring usable knowledge and through its academic and economic implementation. It is planned to build a top-level European research infrastructure that will allow our researchers access to specific knowledge and provide systemic funding for scientific research activities. More resources will also be devoted to co-financing research development programmes and establishing a support environment for innovation development processes. Our objectives are to move from the muscle economy to the brain economy, internationalisation of the economy, the use of advanced technologies and budget documents of these objectives, and also reflect the awareness that the economy is a generator of the well-being of development and also of social security throughout society. We therefore assess that the proposed budgets are properly developed. They contain sufficient investment potential, which will allow for the development of all social subsystems and stable growth of gross social product over the longer term and with additional European funds. Of course, we also hear warnings from the Fiscal Council about the structural deficit and understand their precautionary purpose. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we monitor and support the balance and sustainability of public finances in a consistent and continuous manner. We certainly do not want a repetition of inadequate financial policies. From 2009 to 2014, when our public debt grew enormously due to the financial crisis and the late resolution of our banking system. In this time, the so-called co-vid crisis came a coordinated response in the form of a suspension of fiscal rules due to the existence of exceptional circumstances in time. At EU level, it has enabled an expansionary fiscal and monetary policy to prevent the worst economic consequences of the closure of the country, the severe decline in consumption and the widespread slowdown of social life. All countries have reacted in this same direction, but each country has decided to combine state intervention in order to prevent the collapse of the economic system or society as a whole. In our country, well-targeted state interventions have made our economy in such good shape today and have excellent prospects for the future, which, after all, recognises both credit houses and institutions such as the European Commission, Umar and others, as well as record low unemployment. At European level, because of exceptional circumstances, derogations from fiscal rules continue to be allowed in 2022, while for 2023 it is still unclear what the European fiscal framework will be. Slovenia has a relatively sub-average duty between Member States, depending on the level of public debt relative to GDP. This year we are approaching an 80 per cent limit, but in 2022 this debt will fall to an estimated 77.5 per cent and then in 2023 we target 76 per cent. However, due to the pan-European anti-cyclical and expansionary fiscal policy, everything shows that convergence or maastricht criteria, i.e. that public debt must not exceed 60 % of gross social product, will not be reached for all members for at least some time. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the budget documents submitted are such as to reflect an appropriate and satisfactory balance between the development and investment orientation and to ensure medium- to long-term public financial stability. Members of the SMC will therefore support the proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and the updated draft budget for 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u118	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! In 2020, the Council found itself on a purely unknown ground. The virus began to change our lives and what seemed to us to be self-evident by March 2020 changed overnight. Slovenia has also been fighting the virus for over a year and a half, unfortunately not the most successful, and the price that people pay for this bad fight is great. To be honest, every government would have a hard and hard time during this period and such a period. Your work with authoritarian leadership, non-compliance with laws and constitution, poor communication and disrespect for people has made it even more difficult for you. Our public finances also show a picture as if you care about the future of our country and people. Our finances are in very bad shape today. We have been most in charge since the beginning of our independent Slovenia. We have the highest structural deficit in the European Union, the euro area, which means that we are the largest public financial patients in the EU. Over the course of three years, you have managed to generate €10 billion of losses, we call it a budget deficit, and only half of that, €5 billion, was about protecting people's health and lives. Just half of that! We record favourable, relatively high economic growth, and yet your budgets record huge deficits. This is the wrong fiscal policy, which experts say should be countercyclical, which means that in times when we have high economic growth we do not create a deficit, but at times when we have low economic growth, low income and the need for state intervention, it is understandable that the state creates a deficit. Let's see what you've done in a good year and a half. You have received in your hands a budget of over €224 million. Excess, that means we've spent less than we've collected taxes. Slovenia was in charge of 28.5 billion and 15 thousand 160 euros per capita when you received it. You have charged it with an additional EUR 15 billion and about EUR 5,000 per Slovenian. And if we look at the budget for 2022 and compare it with the last year before your government, this is 2019, let's figure out the following. Revenue in 2022 is 13% higher than in 2019, 13% higher. Expenditure is up by 40 percent. I repeat, 40 percent. If we take away what is the real need of the country, such as so - called covid expenditure or expenditure to protect human health and life, your expenditure increases by 34 percent. Revenue for 13, expenditure for 34. The budget deficit, which is also shown in the picture, this part that is green, is part that is intended to protect health and life, these are so-called covid expenditure; everything else, whether you want to hear it or not, you have to take on your shoulders because you have decided that this is good for our country. And the question is whether or not we think it is. You've managed to raise your public debt historically. Historically. More than 43 billion will be public debt in the following year, 15 billion more than when you received the country in your own hands or in management, if I may say so. You've also increased your debt enormously. That's great. From EUR 15 000 162 to more than EUR 20 000. I will also mention here in 2013 when I ran the government, and many times I get the impression that Slovenia was then in an endlessly high debt. At that time, every Slovenian or debt to each Slovenian amounted to 12 thousand 300 and several euros. Structural deficits – as I have already said – are practically the worst in Europe, the worst in the euro area. Only one country is two dozen worse than us, and this is Romania. This is the country to which our Slovenia compares or competes if you want. And what will be our future with such a backpack that you have put on the shoulders of Slovenia? It's heavy and it's difficult. And even today, people need to be made clear that the responsibility for a bad situation is yours. Just as you left behind a bank hole in 2008 which then had to be repaired by all taxpayers, so in 2022 you will leave behind a large budget hole, a historically high public debt and a very painful public finances, which, of course, will have to be saved again by someone else. In such a poor picture of public finances, you add two major pains: a reduction in income by about one billion and a long-term care law, in which you have not provided or solved the underlying problem, this is to provide the additional funds that are certainly necessary for long-term care. And if you succeed in adopting these laws, our public finances will be in much worse shape than I have described. What else would they have done to me? The budget would certainly be adopted in the National Assembly and not by decrees, as you do. Everyone would know why we're spending public funds. Unfortunately, for this year only the chosen ones know where a billion and a half expenses will go, or you will provide them with two decrees. In a situation of historically high public debt and the worst structural picture of public finances in the European Union would not further reduce taxes and thus reduce the revenue of the budget. Certainly, our government, as it gives you the possibility of law, would set prices for electricity and gas and would not leave this to the proper conduct of individual companies in this crisis situation. That electricity can still be cheap, proves Gene-I and obviously it can. Investments would be planned realistically and then carried out without the annexes, which today is mass-produced and signed by your ministries. When the salaries of health and social workers are raised, they would provide funds for this increase, not hang their agreements on the pensioners' side. And instead of giving the Church and their priests extra money to the students. You spent almost 6,000 euros on every religious official during the crisis. Do you know how much you gave to the students? Two times 150, 300 Euros! And, of course, you could also list what you would have done differently. The documents on the table are yours. They're not good for the state. They bring great uncertainty for our future and, of course, the next government will face all these challenges. At that time, you will again be critical that public debt is too high and that VAT should be reduced. Of course, because of everything that is said in the SAB party, we will not support the budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This year's budget debate focuses mainly on the level and composition of state budgets for the next two years. In the event of a clear conclusion on the existence of exceptional circumstances in 2022, the secondary component of the medium-term public finances framework is essential. It is the sustainability of the budget in the light of the projected economic developments and the development strategy of programme public expenditure. The European Commission’s methodology for calculating potential economic growth is a fundamental problem. This is crucial for calculating the production gap, which is the difference between actual and potential GDP growth and, above all, is crucial to the structural deficit of public finances. This provides for the necessary fiscal effort or the level of public expenditure of the country and can exacerbate economic growth in Slovenia over the next two years. What, then, are the essential shortcomings of the European Commission methodology? How to get to an effective medium-term fiscal discovery? The European Commission’s methodology for calculating the structural deficit has three major weaknesses. First. It does not allow space for a national stabilisation policy, since it predetermines all the threshold conditions, both the level of the potential gross domestic product and the amount of debt and deficit. Second. Due to the method of calculation of the potential product, the actual situation in the economy may be misjudged. He tells his recovery too quickly or he finds his overheating too late. Third. There is no effective solution to the stabilisation of public debt. In Slovenia, therefore, a renewed assessment of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development on increased economic growth over the next two years may lead the European Commission to assess too quickly the nature of the methodology to overheat our economy, and of course during the period when the derogation clause will no longer apply. With higher estimated economic growth, such a calculation will very likely require greater fiscal effort, such as limiting public expenditure for more than the government envisions. In such a case, the Commission will require structural adjustments in salaries, in social transfers, expenditure on education and systemic changes in pensions and in health care. The removal of the described methodology is an alternative to such a concept based on the use of two quantifiable economic categories such as potential product and structural deficit. The assumption is that the state itself takes care of its payment capacity, but has greater freedom to determine within the medium-term fiscal framework the dynamics of economic growth, to determine the dynamics of the primary deficit, it is said, the deficits without interest, and the dynamics of public debt relative to the average values for the euro area. A major role must be played in this by the Fiscal Council, which should monitor the credibility of government projections and the quality of their implementation. The deviation from the expected values requires a reduction in public expenditure growth and the use of the debt brake. Thus, we can avoid the shortcomings of the current methodology and put in place a meaningful medium-term framework to become an essential part of budgetary planning. Responsible public funding planning is at the heart of a stable economic policy of the country, but it is not its own intention either. It should ensure that public funds are used prudently in accordance with the economic power of the State and at the highest level of priorities set. It is therefore the responsibility of the Government to ensure responsible implementation of the public financial policy in the context of other priorities. Since the second quarter of 2020, the Slovenian State has been organising defences during the period of pandemic shock. Budgets for the next two years are the main fiscal bases for the achievement of the goals in favour of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. The creators of these measures understand the nature of the current crisis, which is somewhat compared to the euro crisis ten years ago. Today, like then, the problem of businesses and households is not particularly the lack of liquidity, but rather the solvency crisis. In order to halt the crisis, governments must go to the end of the past unprecedented fiscal expansion measures, and the question is, perhaps, to where. Knowledge of economic development is very limited and it is therefore advisable to be modest in policy-making and, above all, caution in over generalisation. The task of the State is to use the budget to balance the economy. The budget may be designed for deficits or for surpluses, depending on expectations, recessions or conjunctures. By no means should the State budget be dealt with only in bookkeeping, but also in terms of organising demand, national cohesion and productivity growth. While the budget is, it is not just an accounting document, it is not just a balance sheet of state revenue and expenditure, it is said, it is not in particular that. The budget is essentially a reflection of the economic policy of a particular government or authority. It expresses its economic and political priorities, what is most important to the government, which it will focus on in the future. The details of the budgetary structure reveal the consequences that will have a long-term impact on the economic development and quality of life of citizens in the broadest sense. The pandemic has pushed us into an inevitable recession. It also marked the end of the monetary fantasy with a continuous decline in the reference rates and the transition to fiscal expansion policy. Fiscal policy can respond in principle to the demands of economic stabilisation, while the prospects of central banks to succeed in this area are much lower. What fiscal measures would therefore be most effective in achieving economic stability? Most of us must be afraid of returning to the bad old days when the fiscal pipe opened and closed in moments of panic or for political reasons. The starting point of each applicable fiscal policy is the volume of public consumption. This dimension is not determined by the need for fiscal policy in itself, but by the needs of society for public services and services. When public consumption is thus determined, it is in fact determined how much money is to be provided through taxation. However, we need to distinguish between long-term capital investments and short-term stabilisation policies. Capital investments must ensure a stable flow of investment projects, independent of business cycles, and short-term policies must strengthen stability by ensuring public sector business. One and the other aims to ensure a certain degree of automation in the management of long-term and short-term demand. Therefore, credit and debt alone are not a problem; much bigger is the problem, in what way and for what purpose they are used. The complexity of the epidemic is reflected in the fact that there is always an area of expression between natural and social definitions. The economic basis underlying economic activities cannot be circumvented between social definitions. In this place, however, we face the inevitable obvious but universally ignored facts. This is because it is impossible to predict the future economic situation in the economy, the transition from conjuncture to recession and vice versa. There are plenty of forecasts, but not solid knowledge. All compete with various combinations of uncertain government activities with unknown behaviour of businesses and individuals, including the unpredictability of the epidemiological situation, the response of consumers and investors. Here are the different effects of exports, imports, capital movements and the responses of economic operators, the public and governments to them. Therefore, it is too obvious that something that is the result of combinations unknown cannot be known. Budget revenue policy. The revenue of the state budget for 2022 is estimated at EUR 11 billion and EUR 468 million, which is 463 million more than the original proposal, and for 2023 it is estimated at EUR 11 billion and EUR 842 million. The structure of income in both years shows significant Slovenian inevitability. Only four tax types: income, corporate income tax, value added tax and excise duty represent more than 70 per cent of the total budget revenue. In 2022 this percentage is 71.7, and in 2023 it is already 73.95. Members of the Desus Group are convinced that these two figures are sufficiently responsible for the importance of tax revenue in the structure of the overall revenue of the state budget. It is therefore necessary to reject any adventurous experimentation, for example by reducing the tax rates of the tax types mentioned above. The assumption that the existing amount of tax revenue is high enough for the State to meet all its current and investment expenditure and transfers is artificially wrong. Therefore, the basic objective should be to increase the revenue capacity of the State budget to a greater extent than envisaged. Budget expenditure policy, the 2022 budget outturns are increasing depending on the initial proposal or the budget of €1 billion and €342 million, which is set at €13 billion and €940 million. In 2023, it is estimated at €13 billion and €360 million. The budget deficit planned in 2022 is two billion and 796 million euros, and for 2023 it is one billion and 518 million euros. The developmental orientation of the budget is reflected through different parameters, and the most important among them is the amount of funds earmarked for investment. This is about investment expenditure and investment transfers. The sum of the two types of budget expenditure for 2022 is two billion and 291 million euros, which is more than the budget adopted. In 2023, approximately the same volume, two billion and 234 million euros, totaling four billion and 525 million euros in investment expenditure and investment transfers are planned. One way to improve the country's productive capacity is to invest in infrastructure. Much is being debated about what should be included in the infrastructure, as it depends on where the country should invest as a priority. On the one hand, there are those who think only of physical infrastructure and others add investments in education, health care, environmental protection, digitisation and other soft infrastructure areas. Economically speaking, it's not the basic difference between whether we're talking about the road, or whether it's a school, or a hospital, but the difference is whether or not investment brings a growing yield. The idea is that the country should invest in large fixed costs, such as roads or railways, because this reduces the cost to entrepreneurs and individuals who will use this new infrastructure. Suppose we're talking about a new road connection. Transactions that were not profitable before they were built will become profitable as soon as the market becomes more accessible. This reduces the costs for those who travel, as for those who produce and trade, the same could be said for digital infrastructure. It is also for educational and scientific infrastructure because the costs of understanding and transfer of knowledge are decreasing. Similarly, it is possible to say for all investments in human abilities, but this is not easy because it requires a different understanding of public finances, which is by no means easy to justify. The structure of expenditure in the specific part of the budget for 2022 shows the highest increase in the area of the five ministries in the light of the budget adopted. The growth at the Ministry of Health is almost EUR 390 million, at the Ministry of Infrastructure 274 million, at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for EUR 217 million, at the Ministry of Environment and Space for EUR 138 million and at the Ministry of Defence for EUR 105 million. In addition to the increase at the Ministry of Finance, the largest ministry, 60 million euros or a good 60 million euros, we get the total value of billions and 184 million euros; it is said that the five largest ministries and the Ministry of Finance, and the response to the intended use, the combination of borrowed foreign savings and primary emissions. The programming priorities of the budget changes for next year show an increase in the share of expenditure devoted to funding in specific policy areas. In this respect, education and sport policies, social security, pension protection, transport and transport infrastructures and intervention programmes and commitments stand out most. Members of the Desus Group specifically stress the value of co-financing the pension fund from the state budget, where an increase is planned in relation to the estimated realization this year for almost €72 million per billion and €215 million. Expenditure on spending the largest policy, education policy and sport exceeds €2 billion, €2 billion and €207 million, and increases by 176 million in terms of this year's performance assessment. Social security by expenditure is the second largest budgetary policy. The projected expenditure is €594 million, which means more than €92 million, as will be realized this year. Transport policy expenditure and transport infrastructure also exceed a billion euros, a billion and 205 million euros, and are 115 million euros higher than this year's performance assessment. Financing investment in transport infrastructure is one of the key generators of economic growth. The objectives of this type of investment are to ensure more efficient public rail infrastructure and road transport, and to improve road conditions with a high level of use, transport safety and to raise standards of regular maintenance. The intervention programmes and commitments, which, of course, consist mainly of codified measures, are significantly lower than this year for 2022, two billion and 869 million euros this year, and 982 million euros next year, a billion and 886 million euros less. In this policy, colleagues and colleagues, the difference between the pre-infection period and the epidemic period can be best illustrated by comparison. In 2019, for example, expenditure on this policy amounted to €22 billion and €487 million, €22 million and €487,000. This is 127 times less than the estimated implementation in this year and 43 times less than planned in the coming year. Therefore, the budgetary comparisons with 2019 are nothing more than a mere fiscal curiosity, not to say that they are completely meaningless and meaningless. In the proposal for amending the budget for 2022, the state’s expansion fiscal policy is reflected in increased expenditure in all budgetary policies, but it is true that with different intensity rates. Unlike monetary policy and its complicated mechanisms, fiscal policy is a little easier to understand. But this did not help to expose the delusions associated with it. The great error of fiscal policy is that the budget must be balanced within each economic cycle and that the budget deficit is the greatest evil. This error is taken over from the most developed countries, which already have a high level of public services and services, and also have a highly developed infrastructure. When less developed countries, including Slovenia, are among them, taking over such mythology, condemning themselves to be reconciled with poor infrastructure and with low levels of public consumption. I am thinking mainly of spending on education, health and social protection. If it insists that the budget must be balanced and, nevertheless, invests in infrastructure, then the huge cost burden of its expensive construction will fall to one generation only, even though the benefits of the built infrastructure will also be used by future generations. Such generous intergenerational gifts are not only unnecessary but also pointless. The pandemic has also contributed significantly to a change in the underlying belief that the budget should not be financed with the money of the central bank, as this inevitably leads to an increase in budgetary spending and inflation. It is therefore important that budgets be financed by private sector money alone, particularly financial ones, because this ensures the rationality of public spending. It follows from this that the financial sector is the indirect controller of budgetary responsibility, as it will never finance excessive public spending and will not allow unreasonable public debt growth. This structure is also in complete conflict with the facts. If the financial sector had really worked in the manner described, there would never have been a public debt crisis, because countries could not have exceeded its set frameworks. By comparison, here we will take away the derogation from fiscal rules; when the debt of the euro area country exceeds 60 per cent of gross domestic product, banks should stop lending the budget after this mythology. The truth may be different. The financial sector continues to credit the budget while raising interest rates. The financial sector is being credited by the countries in question because the profits are the largest and it is possible for such countries to be drained to poverty. To put it simply, the financial sector is no obstacle to public debt growth. The State's answers must take care of the height, structure and sustainability of its own public debt. The financial sector will not do this in their place. The message is clear here. Successful financial markets require the state to set a framework for their operation. In the game between the state and the markets, the state must not lose if we want to preserve political and economic democracy before the dictatorship of the oligarchs. We need to create a social state, more public and private consumption, and more confidence in entrepreneurship and innovation. The payment of the epidemiological crisis needs to be more evenly divided between capital and work. In this donor economy, however, it is not more important than a lady, but how we do it and who is involved. Therefore, the resolution of the epidemiological crisis is a civil and not just a political and economic issue. The expenditure structure of the budgetary policies for 2023 shows an increase in expenditure on the following policies compared to the estimated implementation for 2021. Defence and protection of 818 million euros in expenditure, an increase of almost 172 million euros. The reconstruction of the Slovenian Army is gradually starting. The Slovenian army is a national armed force that is trained and equipped to carry out an armed struggle. It is the most important component of the national security system. Its size, weapons and composition depend on state policy and military doctrine. The relationship to state defence vitals has become a matter of dilettarian political decisions and amateurism, which reduces members of the Slovenian Army to poor paramilitary poverty. It is wrong to believe that membership in the NATO Pact ensures long-term security because it ignores the artificial legality of the organisational theory by which all organisations have their life cycle and are not bound by its duration. We do not care that in a few years after the financial crisis we have succeeded in undermining the foundations of our own armed forces. The authorities must be aware that the country is defended primarily by defence of the military profession; in order for the military to survive, the state must take care of its soldiers. Another policy where budgetary expenditure increases significantly is science and the information society. Expenditures for 2023 amounting to €490 million are higher by €122 million than estimated this year. At crisis levels, expenditure remains at the next policy level – I speak for 2023 – education and sport – two billion and 174 million euros, social security of billions – and 562 million euros, transport and transport infrastructure of billions and 240 million euros, pension protection of billions and 177 million euros, as well as agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition of almost 575 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Desus Group are of the view that practical logic and common sense require that society be linked to achievable objectives, but not divided by specific interests. We're not going to solve this crisis with a miracle. It could take a while. Society needs leadership in times of crisis, not preparation for calculation and calculation. The crisis caused by the virus has halted economic growth in a completely new way, with which we have not had any experience so far, the country must take control of the economy in order to respond adequately to the crisis. Taking into account possible risks, we can then see that some measures have been sufficient and we cannot know whether the measures defined in both budgets will be sufficient in advance. Therefore, we need difficult decisions, how and how difficult, and we will begin to understand only when we recognize that the rules we have played so far simply do not apply anymore. Public finances are expected to confirm the economic performance of the government administration, but whether the budgets are developed or merely a fiscal bag for filling legal and agreed budget users' items. It is difficult to conceptually combine opposite policies, such as fiscal stability and social cohesion or environmental efficiency and economic competitiveness. It is difficult to link short- and long-term measures and adjustments to the sustainability of the budget in the light of projected economic developments. But the problem isn't in the paper. The problem is not in the orientations, but in the ability to apply them. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for amending the budget for 2022 and the updated draft budget for 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Janja Slug. It will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u122	We will not support the proposal for amending the budget for 2022 and the updated draft budget for 2023 in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members and Members. And we will not abstain, we will vote against. Why? Not only because the draft budgets represent the financial priorities of the political programmes of individual parties of the ruling coalition and their coalition contract, but because the proposed budgets represent, as one of Slovenia's eminent economic experts, Dr. Mojmir Dark, the “public financial Wild West”. While the Prime Minister of the Government said, at the presentation of the budget memorandum, that the optimistic development of the budget is ahead of us by means of investments that this country has never had before, and that the vote for these two budgets is a guarantee that the next two years will actually be in the years of rapid growth, greater resilience and a significant increase in the prosperity of Slovenia. Really optimistic, but unfortunately completely unrealistic. In the parliamentary group, we believe that more than Dr. Dark's metaphor on the site of the metaphor of Janša than Nero, the Roman emperor known for his absolutist rule, who decided at the first major crisis to burn Rome. Of course, he blamed Christians who were then persecuted for arson. The Minister of Finance of the aforementioned Nero at the time of the burning of public finances is simply a brand of liro. Both gentlemen are well aware of the cycles when, in the pre-election period, based on unrealised public finances, and thus on state budgets, excessively promotes an expansionary fiscal policy based mainly on indebtedness. This usually leads to overheating the economy, high public consumption and the sharing of pre-election sugars with long-term structural consequences. The result is a permanent deterioration in the state of public finances and the creation of a situation when colleagues from the SDS in a good year for poor public finances and possible adoption of unpopular measures – what? Blame the others! The ones who will run the government then. Of course, we are talking about Zuyph, who has become the shortcut to unpopular austerity measures. Those who have applied for pensions, child allowances, unemployment benefits and so on. This is when a retirement allowance is raised or when the Minister for Labour promises a universal child allowance. Does that sound familiar? Given that the President of the Government in the international space is considered to be a copycat of Donald Trump's policies, this is also reflected in a similar economic and fiscal policy. When the SDS are in opposition, of course they point to the necessity of a balanced budget, they point to the level of debt or public debt. When they are in power, they balance their position inversely; they have no problem with as much responsibility as possible to finance increased budget deficits. The wolf changes the hair. Slovenia's public financial deficit was 3.8 billion euros last year. This means a good 8 per cent of GDP on the fact that we had a surplus of €207 million at the state treasury. Although the public deficit was justified by additional resources for the implementation of measures to control the epidemic. It was also necessary to take measures to maintain and promote economic activity. According to the Ministry of Finance, this year's deficit is estimated to be €3.9 billion, even more than last year's, when revenues were significantly lower. It is therefore expected that the deficit should be reduced and not vice versa. It should be noted that the budget for 2022 was adopted by the National Assembly for 2022 last November and that the change due to possible intervention measures from last year and this year is not really necessary as all the measures are expired. Nevertheless, the government has decided to spend an additional €701 million. This increase is only partly justified and stems from an expected increase in the averages, which we do not oppose in our parliamentary group. We note, however, the ease of handling public finances also in the light of the upcoming local elections next year. Increased spending is also at the expense of the annual pensioner allowance. In total, this represents 34 million for averages and some 10 million for an annual supplement. Everything else represents politically motivated measures ahead of the upcoming elections. The Fiscal Council has warned the Government that the existence of exceptional circumstances due to the covid-19 pandemic must not be used to take measures reflecting the final phase of the political cycle. It is true that the European Commission decided this spring to apply the general derogation clause not only in 2021 but also in 2022. It did not accept this activation for 2023. At that time, this clause will deactivate, which means that Slovenia will be under its scrutiny or will determine whether the budget for 2023 will create macroeconomic imbalances. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the existence of exceptional circumstances in 2022 allows only flexibility in the functioning of fiscal policy for the direct implementation of the PKP measures, but not for the rest of the planned consumption, even if it is investments. In the parliamentary group, we would also like to point out that the expenditure of state budgets before the pandemic was approximately €10 billion. Now this will amount to 13.3 billion euros, or the state budget for the 2022 super-election year, foresees the highest expenditure in Slovenia's self-sustainment history. It's probably not a coincidence. As regards the developmental orientation of the budget, it should be noted that such large-scale expenditure plans are in fact reflected only in a larger foreign debt. Slovenia is among the countries most indebted to EU members in this crisis and has further nominally increased its public debt, which is record-breaking. Inadvertently inflatable state budgets for the next two years will lead to an increase in public debt far beyond the necessary scope, which will make it significantly more difficult to reduce public debt in the coming years when the fiscal framework is tightened. The next finance minister will therefore have great difficulty in bringing public expenditure to some normal public financial framework. The fact that we are spending more today solely on debt also takes away the potential of indebtedness in the coming years for the things we will need at that time. Since the fiscal policy of this government is solely based on borrowing and drawing on European funds, we are rhetorically asking ourselves, of course, whether we have a minister of finance in Slovenia or only a minister of debt. With regard to the use of European funds, we would like to point out that, following the budget adopted this year, we have even foreseen 1.6 billion euros in drawback. The early autumn figures show that we will not draw on the planned funds. Such unrealistic planning, which continues for the next two years, certainly opens up a dilemma as to whether we can really rely on government plans, so that we can also successfully draw on European funds over the next two years and manage to invest over two billion euros a year. It's probably more about wishes. The government, together with the draft budgets, has adopted a staffing plan for the public administrations for 2021 and 2022. With it, the number of employees allowed increased by 598. For 598! This refers to the need to control covid-19 infections and to draw on European funds. In this regard, it is worth noting that no intervention measure applies in 2022 and that the use of European funds or of funds from the Recovery and Resilient Fund of the Ministry of Finance is subject to the provision of 25 posts under the newly established Recovery and Resilient Office. Other jobs are not related to this. The staff cut in the state administration is as follows. The government's adoption of the plan this year and next year, despite the conclusion of the Presidency of the European Union, allows disproportionate increases in staff at virtually all ministries. Smells like political nepotism. Although the Government is referring in the approval of the Staff Plan to the fact that those administrative authorities will have to provide funds for these jobs within their financial plans. This is an oxymoron, or smart nonsense, because it will not be difficult for ministries and government services to secure these funds because in 2022 there is an increase in expenditure of some 100 million euros. With this government's personnel plan, who else remembers the promise of the SDS years ago that the government they run will draw up a plan to reduce the number of public sector employees in state jurisdiction by 10 percent? On the other hand, it is unacceptable that, at the time of the record high budget, the Ministry of Justice is underfunded or does not provide sufficient resources for the functioning of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Office. There is also an important way in which the government has reduced their funds or ignored their needs. Only days ago did they find that the Government, despite agreeing on the level of funds with the Ministry of Finance in the summer, accepted certain changes within the budgetary coordination process without even informing them. And what is the answer to the Prime Minister? Completely in the style of his Trump model, only that he served selective facts instead of alternative facts. He pointed out that the Courts for 2022 were allocated just as much funding as they had been in the adopted budget last year. I quote: "The budget for 2022 was adopted last year and for all courts, guardians and so on took into account their proposals without cuts. For 2023, the Government has also taken full account of their proposal in the draft budget under consideration by the National Assembly." End of quote. They don't object to that in court. However, they point out the proposal for amending the budget for 2022, which brings less money to them than was envisaged or agreed with the Ministry. In fact, it is a matter of blocking the work of the Constitutional Court, which has annulled a number of contested government co-audits, and clearly informing the other judges and prosecutors what will happen if they continue to make decisions that will not satisfy the SDS. And on the wallpaper of this government, it's not just a crime. After the new act, they also decided to punish the Ombudsman. The draft amending budget for next year provides for the operation of the Ombudsman for the same amount as the budget adopted last year, even though they agreed with the Ministry of Finance on additional money in May this year. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of the Union, we would like to point out that the level of expenditure of the State budget is unrealistically high. The administration of this government is therefore able to compare with the guest who wears new and new trays of food and drink on the table without asking the guests who will settle the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Dušan Šiško, who will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u124	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Minister! This year, the budget was prepared entirely in other times and under conditions as it had been prepared in the past. The public financial picture received a lot of criticism, as it is the face of the fight against the epidemic. The criticism was particularly at the expense of the public financial debt per capita. It is very easy to criticize or be general after the battle is over. We must be aware that it was necessary to protect the health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that the budget also had to seriously cut into health care. The expenditure of the state budget, its scope and structure are therefore adapted to the health situation in the country as elsewhere in Europe. We can only tell critics that they should try to have a normal fiscal policy and a public financial picture within the global epidemic. Investments in health are clearly more extensive than previous investments. Each opposition always criticises the government at the expense of health care when funds for the health sector are increasing. As I said in one of the positions a little while ago, it is no problem to invest in health care; the bigger problem is that we do not get a report on what is done with these millions. We have not yet received, fellow Members and colleagues, the 2018 reports, when we approved €35 million to reduce waiting lines. Today, we read that waiting species are even longer. Where is the money, or when will we receive the report, for what was it spent? Slovenia receives good grades from credit rating agencies. According to the Fiscal Council, action of around 5% of GDP annually has contributed significantly to the decline in economic activity in last year. A similar assessment was made this year. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that fiscal policy to promote and increase economic activity in the country is a good manoeuvre in times of crisis. In such a policy, the normal consequence is that the country will generate a budget deficit, but with a long-term objective of development and prosperity. The deficit during such a policy period must be covered by the State through the additional borrowing or use of fiscal reserves generated from the budgetary surpluses of previous periods. And don't look at 2020, which has been a year of vision. The result of such a policy is the mitigation of the crisis impacts on Slovenia's gross social product. For each budget or rebalancing, those who are not in the government are complaining about the budget. The government has been severely criticised by the opposition for its current economic and economic policies. Surely it would not have been any better if someone else had led the country's fiscal policy in a time of such a severe global crisis. Or maybe? Slovenia is in even less debt than the European Union average. One of the past governments sold all the well-standing companies, and now they are bragging about how they saved Slovenia within three months. In this way it is very easy to be a good master. The budget is also geared towards job creation. This is also closely linked to the epidemic. More than €2 billion will be earmarked for new investments, which will also be paid in the long run. This impact will be reflected in long-term income, employment and economic growth. Investment levels are expected to rise to around 6,5 % of GDP over the next two years, much higher than the highest levels so far. The country's debt in 2022 will be 77.5% of GDP, which means a 1% reduction compared to 2021. Interest is also falling and will be 1.3% of GDP in 2022. In 2014, interest expenditure was the highest, i.e. around 2.9% of GDP. According to the Fiscal Council, the deficit in the sector will be 5% of GDP in 2022 and only 3.3% of GDP in 2023. Criticism, of course, with the aim of good advertising, by non-governmental parties at the expense of a green breakthrough is only propaganda, as this area will also be well cared for. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the armed and modern equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as each free country must be based on its defence capabilities. However, we are, of course, critical of weapons with the objectives of NATO missions, which are in the interest of American corporations and do not protect our people and our country. That is why we want military purchases to be based in the future on the defence of the hilly terrain of our country and not on training in remote countries where missions are taking place in the interests of foreigners. Weak 280 million for transport infrastructure will have a beneficial impact on economic growth in Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we also welcome an increase of €86.4 million and an additional €33 million in 2023 for 2022. We also favor a higher level of resources to balance the development of the municipalities. The proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023 is very interesting. However, we are already saying that in 2022 and 2023 there will be a balance, because on 24 April 2022 there will be elections. The new government, however it may be, will certainly want to make transfers with the rebalans. In the end, all I can say is that the country has to function, especially in these difficult, difficult times.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u126	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for amending the budget for 2022 and an updated draft budget for 2023. The proposal focuses on the gradual recovery and withdrawal of temporary measures to deal with the consequences of the epidemic and the implementation of structural measures to increase the resilience of the economy supported by investments in key areas. The economic and budgetary policy network is thus focused on the gradual recovery and withdrawal of temporary measures to deal with the consequences of the epidemic and the implementation of structural measures to increase the resilience of the economy supported by investments in key areas. This will pave the way for a gradual balance of the state budget after the epidemic period in which exceptional circumstances and deviations from fiscal rules apply. In the proposal for amending the budget for 2022, we are planning revenues of around € 11.47 billion, which is 4.5% more than in the adopted budget for 2022. Expenditure is planned at a total of around €13.94 billion after cash flow, 10.7% more than in the adopted budget for 2022. The budget deficit is expected to reach around €2.47 billion or 4.6% of gross domestic product because we are still in the recovery and recovery phase. The draft budget for 2023, however, provides for revenue of around EUR 11.84 billion, which is 3.3% more than in the draft amending budget for 2022. Expenditure is planned at around €13.36 billion after cash flow, which is less than the expenditure planned in the draft amending budget for 2022 for 580 million. The budget deficit is projected to reach around €1.52 billion or 2.6% of gross domestic product. The budgets for 2022 and 2023, according to the SDS Group, are optimistic and development-oriented, by means of investments such as this country has never had in its entire history. Next year and 2023 will be more than €2 billion. These funds have been fairly distributed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia throughout the country and across all sectors. The major investments in health care will be €200 million in each of the next two years. In two years, more money will be invested in health care than has been spent in the past decade. Investments in road and rail infrastructure must also be highlighted in anti-floating security, in drinking water supply, in kindergartens and primary schools, and in sports infrastructure, as well as in culture, science and digital connectivity. Significant funds are also planned for investment in nursing homes. Without investments, the budget deficit would be significantly lower, investment would bring additional value, and this would bring higher income to employees and greater profits to businesses. Thus, in the framework of the budget for 2022 and 2023, substantial resources are planned for the construction, reconstruction or improvement of living conditions within at least ten units of home for older people in a total capacity of more than 600 additional beds. The scope of the pension allowance will increase annually with the provision of stable and lasting care for pensioners, stressing that pensions will be harmonised once a year on the basis of the growth of the average monthly gross salary and the average growth of living needs in the Republic of Slovenia, which are determined and officially published by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Payment of the annual allowance will be made in five classes and in slightly higher amounts than in this year. The draft budget for 2022 takes into account the harmonisation of pensions and other benefits of 4%, i.e. around EUR 236 million in money. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that all the expenditure to mitigate the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic has been justified. Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have taken steps to protect the functioning economy, preserve jobs and protect the most vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, the figures show that Slovenia has one of the highest economic growth in the European Union and that Slovenia has one of the lowest unemployment rates among the Member States of the European Union. It's certainly a data source that inspires optimism. It should be pointed out that Slovenia currently records a little over 66,000 people's unemployment. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the Employment Office currently employs more than 20,000 jobs, which means that unemployment can probably still be significantly lower than 66,000 unemployed people at a given time. The biggest optimism in the budget is also the European Commission's forecast, which still predicts economic growth in Slovenia. It is even more important that the European Commission predicts economic growth also for the 10 countries in which Slovenia exports most. Many talks by the opposition were about the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. The emphasis that we have said now – Slovenia has the least unemployment in the European Union country, has one of the most economic growth, and this is mainly due to co-operative measures. Covid's actions also required a series of expenditure in the state budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that, since 2020, all countries in the world have been indebted. With lectures and graphs presented by the opposition both on the home committee, the Committee on Finance, as today, could also perform in the Austrian Parliament, the German Parliament, the Italian Parliament. We are convinced that there is no state in times of crisis that would not increase its indebtedness and increase its deficit. There is also a structural deficit. We agree with this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we are absolutely convinced that the structural deficit of the Republic of Slovenia is a tail that Slovenia has been carrying for more than 10 years. And at least where is the fact that the structural deficit came with the third government of Janša. The only time that the structural deficit really decreased in Slovenia was with the implementation of the ZUJF. We are also convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that in the future attention will have to be paid to reducing the structural deficit. With all the measures announced, and with investments of more than €2 billion, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group believe that Slovenia is on the right track, as two billion investments will have a multiplier effect on the budget, creating new jobs. The risks we see in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the budget for 2022 and 2023 are, of course, rising prices in global markets, especially in the field of energy and food. We are convinced that in a way there is a high probability that inflation is knocking on the big door. And what needs to be highlighted is the risks we see in 2022 and 2023 are problems in supply chains. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that a great deal of seriousness must also be directed towards reshaping the fiscal rule. We are convinced that both the European Commission and the financial ministers within the European Union are working in this area and that these changes can take place in the near future. With regard to the debt itself, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that debt or credit is important to what you spend it for and what its purpose is. For the period 2020-2021 and beyond, we can say that this government has spent these funds primarily on people, the most vulnerable groups and the economy; in the past governments, these funds were no longer spent on banks and the financial industry. The fact that Slovenia is on the right track is probably also an indication that Slovenia's ratings remain at the same level or are even increasing. This means that foreign agencies of Slovenia trust it, they view it as a stable country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are convinced that the changes in the budget for 2022 and the updated budget for 2023 are appropriate. Both budgets are not only socially oriented but are also development-oriented for a long time. We haven't discussed two billion investments in Slovenia in a long time. The government will spend 2 billion euros and probably improve the standard of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the draft budgets for 2022 and for 2023.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Igor Peček, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The two draft budgets that we are considering today are some sort of Trojan horse. The gifts they show are based on high expenditure and, as a result, on the extremely high indebtedness of the country, also on the responsibility for projects that, in our view, do not have sufficient development potential for the future. In addition, the absorption capacity of certain industries may be at risk. We live on credit, without a serious plan, how we will create more in the coming years and how we will settle billions of debts. All of this motivates the thought of the next election year 2022. Thus, we can briefly describe the budget for 2022 and 2023 and, in general, the current government's overall public financial policy, which is or will create almost EUR 12 billion a big hole in the state budget. Last year, in the LMŠ Group, we understood the need for a high indebtedness of the country, because in March we faced a virus that we did not know, with circumstances that we had encountered, with the halting of life, the horizontal closure of society. It was expected and logical that the country would help, as the various segments were also assisted by neighbouring countries. Otherwise, the aids, especially the economy, were often too slow, we showed them little imagination, but they were; and this is important. And the result, at least for the vast majority of economic activities, is relatively good. Unfortunately, the government has failed us all in the area of the virus. We expected the government, based on last year's experience and everything we learned in the epidemic, to prepare a clear aid strategy, health protocols, education, a small economy for this year. We also expected her to start preparing for a green transition and digitisation and invest in youth housing, but unfortunately our expectations did not come true. There were too many other actions, all under cover of the epidemic. It is precisely because the government has not prepared itself that the poor management of the epidemic and the uncontrolled spending of public finances continued this year and caused an even greater loss. There will be a new four billion hole in the state budget. Of this, 2.2 billion euro has been allocated to health care and covid-19-related assistance, including to high covid supplements, which have been disproportionately distributed. The rest, however, can be said only — irresponsible spending. So in two years, last year and this year, this government in the state budget created 7.5 billion euros a big hole, a loss. Rather, if I express myself more beautifully, it has created 7.5 billion euros in deficits. In 2021, we will thus remember the very poor management of the epidemic, the missed opportunities to lay the groundwork for a smart development breakthrough and the destruction of a democratic and legal state. We will also remember that the government leaves a burning place in its conduct. Stifled by the release of the fiscal rule, the uncritical support in Parliament, the cheap money and the fact that the elections are ahead of us, the government has prepared both draft budgets. Instead of considering how Slovenia should plan its path after the epidemic to get closer to the most developed countries in the next ten years, the government has unfortunately gone from one to the other to a short-sighted policy and has drawn up, in such a spirit, budgets for the next two years, which are unrealistic, based on high indebtedness, the envisaged development potential that should be demonstrated for the future, and currently under great question is currently a very high economic growth. This steady development with large amounts of short-term borrowed money does not work well on the medium and long term. It is an irresponsible policy towards the state treasury and also an irresponsible policy towards all of us, and in particular an irresponsible policy towards young people. We fear that with a poorly crafted recovery and resistance plan, we are missing out on a historic opportunity. Of course, we will move forward, but not as quickly and not as quickly as we could; and not as useful for our country as it could be. Let me do it again. The budget loss generated by the government last year and this year amounts to €7.5 billion. A minimum of 4 billion deficits are foreseen for the next two years. Together in four years, this amount is €11.5 billion of the budget deficit that the government is covering with the country's debt, that is, people, citizens, each of us. By the way, if Slovenian debt per capita was slightly over €15 000 per capita at the time of the government of Janez Janš, it is now more than €20 000. This government has raised an additional EUR 5,000 for each Slovenian. And all this headless spending is happening despite the serious warnings of the Fiscal Council and economic experts. Let me quote the economist and regular professor of international finance, Dr Mojmir Mrak, who recently said: "The European Commission's announcement clearly shows that Slovenia will have the highest structural deficit between the members of the European Union next year and in 2023. So the same effect of economic growth with which the country boasts is achieved by relatively higher indebtedness than others. This will limit our options in the medium term as we emerge from the crisis and for the green breakthrough." It is true that economic growth is high this year, but it is so in most comparable European countries. We reach it with a high debt, but economic growth is expected to decrease considerably in 2022 and 2023. It's still gonna stay high, and we're still talking about the deficit. This is one of the problems with the structural deficit. The second is that it is rightly expected that Europe will return to the fiscal rule as soon as possible. It is true, probably not immediately; not in the form we know it so far, but still – the fiscal rule will apply again. This means that the new government will have to reduce our deficit substantially. Moreover, the high deficit government, which is covered by high debt, wants to lower taxes further. For example, the proposal for a new Income Law provides for a reduction of the budget revenue of around €250 million in 2022, additionally in the next four years so that the deficit will total almost a billion. In the budget, however, the government foresees an increase in income from the revenue collected. We don't believe it. We just don't get along. Not to mention that the government is punishing the judiciary because both budgets express the strong desire of the government team after training because you know what the judicial system is. The same is true of the Council of State and other non-governmental institutions. What did we want to do differently in the LMŠ Group and in the opposition, but you ignored us? It is incomprehensible that the government is still rejecting proposals to provide funds for the installation of ventilation systems and air cleaners in educational establishments, kindergartens and other public institutions throughout the country. We've been late for over a year. Instead, the government recommends opening windows. By the way, it's December. However, money was found for the purchase of ventilation systems for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence. All right, but why not the kids, the students, the students, the elderly?Oh, my God! Unfortunately, the government coalition has also rejected our proposal to provide means to address the mental health of some children and young people. As the government forgot about children and youth, so did the elderly. In the budget, it did not provide sufficient funds for an agreed salary raise, which is due to employees in older people's homes, but some of this cost is transferred directly to the users of services, i.e. pensioners. One of these costs is very difficult to pay. Economic, research and development policies are also inconceivable. Our proposal, like everyone else, is simply not supported. A well-functioning and developed economy also allows us a social state. You like to say that the condition for a successful society is a well-functioning economy. Of course, we cannot go beyond total government ignorance of the handling of clean drinking water in the Anhovea area, where the population still pays a large tax due to industrial asbestos pollution. The inhabitants of Anhoveg have the right to safe drinking water, and we in this house have the duty to help them or to provide them with funds Thursday to invest in a new source and infrastructure. The amendment has been tabled. It just needs enough votes. Dear Members, in the LMŠ Group, we are concerned about this equal treatment of public finances, as we are aware of what this amount of expenditure, which is covered by the poor 12 billion euros in debt, has been or will be only a good 5 billion spent on measures related to the epidemic. The rest, in our view, is being wasted too easily, irresponsiblely, without serious consideration, unfortunately only in the new political cycle. This is certainly not good, since there is no plan to ensure the stability of public finances with such debt even in the face of poor economic conditions when interest rates change or change in all financial markets. Everything is betting on high economic growth, but we fear that it does not provide a peaceful sleep either. There are major health, economic, environmental and social challenges ahead of us. However, we have a government that we can claim in the LMŠ without any doubt to be afraid, at least we are afraid that these challenges will not come to fruition. The proof of this is the epidemic and the smooth management of public finances and the misunderstanding that in society, in a patient, respectful and, above all, the human way, not with insults, must activate all the potentials that we have, including those that disagree with us or at certain times oppose us. All of this is a great danger to our future and to our social development. During the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, when we also led the Ministry of Finance, we negotiated heavily for each euro, weighing carefully whether it was meaningful to use it or not. At the end of 2019 we left almost 250 million euros in surplus at the cash register. In addition, we have reduced public debt, both nominally and as a percentage of GDP. We were able to manage and run the country, to manage public finances well. That is why this public-funded pre-election proposal concerns us at the expense of every citizen and citizen of Slovenia. This is irresponsible treatment of people, of the country, of the future. And if I end up as I started, with a slight parable – let's fear the Danes, even though they bring gifts. The Trojan horse was a false gift, but the three because of the arrogance, blindness and shortsightedness of the authorities of the day. If Troy has been plundered and burned, which is a historical fact and we cannot do so, we are confident that our country will also survive this financial tsunami. We have been through a lot, but it is important to be aware today that we will be paying pre-election gifts from both budgets after the elections and debts long afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Matjaž Han, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Soon it will be two years from the beginning of the global epidemic, which has essentially thrown the world out of bankruptcy. Because of the social, human and economic consequences, it was clear from the outset that it would not be possible to follow the policy of saving and reducing public debt until then. This is, however, the order of the applicable fiscal rules. In Slovenia we are even more papal than the pope in terms of fiscal rule than elsewhere. It was clear and clear that no country would be able to manage without budget deficits and without additional indebtedness to finance measures to limit infections, to treat the sick and to help affected people, organisations, institutions and, of course, the economy. We all understand that we must not only spend to overcome this crisis but also invest in strengthening our resilience and, above all, solidarity systems, whose weaknesses have been unleashed by the epidemic. Slovenia was given a new government by the pandemic – otherwise I do not know what is worse – in which there are many of them, including the current Minister of Finance, who has always sworn in primarily to two, and this is a strict discipline, including sustainability and prudence in public finances. After 20 months of the work of this government, I can say that all these myths have sort of disintegrated, in fact, they're gone. The range of infections is at its peak today. Slovenia is due to the epidemic, not to its knees. At that time, however, the government was in charge of more than 8 billion, but only half of that amount was earmarked for measures related to the epidemic. The budget deficit reached 8.4% of GDP. Last year, the budget accounted for 3.5 billion heavy holes, and this year it is approaching four billion. This year's allowed consumption has exceeded more than a billion and a half euros. In the next two years' budgets, however, it is planning an additional debt of almost 5 billion. Budget plans have been amended several times since the government's appearance and the epidemic. For example, the budget for the following year was amended already in November, together with the balance for this year. It cannot be overlooked that the implementation deviates completely from the frameworks endorsed by this National Assembly. The government simply lost control of the expenditure. The question is whether this is conscious or not because of your ignorance. The most clear indicator of how unrealistic its plans are is the realisation of European funds, the meccas, but we are giving the most to these funds. In its current budget for this year, it forecasted a pump of 1.6 billion. In October, the final accounts for last year's realisation estimated it at €1 billion and €200 million. In fact, to date, it has managed to absorb only half of this, even less, €620 million. The government's development and cohesion policy service, from the planned 219 million spending to today, has not been able to spend, you will not believe, 7 million euros. By the beginning of this month, the government had spent more than it should have spent throughout the year and, of course, now it is providing the users with transfers. The public debt, ladies and gentlemen, is growing twice as fast as the average of the European Union, but the ruling coalition with supporters intends and continues to spend money on average. There are millions and billions to be given to people, and not once do they ask about the results of this work. Yes, the election is at the door. At the same time, the government allows itself to come before the National Assembly without a budget rebalance this year. It has only adopted a budget decree that would dramatically increase the threshold of the permit of consumption, which would, of course, be distributed voluntarily by decrees and by redeployments, without critical questions from the opposition, the professional public and, of course, far from this public. Even though fiscal rules are temporarily not in force, it still applies, ladies and gentlemen, Articles 148 of the Constitution and 40 and 41 of the Public Finance Act, which require all the country's revenue and expenditure to be included in the budget. These laws and this constitution still exist in our country. The government thus expects us to sign the Bianca waiting to distribute the money on its own, and its spending will not be evaluated together until one year after the final accounts are ready for this year. That's probably when the coalition will be gone. Therefore, before us, with respect, there are proposals that are not only contrary to any responsibility and, if you want, common sense, but I hope that, contrary to the laws, I will be more careful about the Constitution. The government behaves as if the cheap debt will never end and the temporaryity of the rules on sustainable budgets or the fiscal rule that the fiscal rule will never come back. Therefore, in all these circumstances, these two budgets, for the first time at least the first, are unnecessary, because the 2022 supplementary budget is adopted, secondly, unrealistic, because neither one nor the other does not foresee the end of the period without fiscal constraints, and, thirdly, dangerous, because it permanently generalises the structure of the budget and work as a result of this, Slovenia is very vulnerable. However, this draft budget, in particular amendments 2022, is intended, as I have said before, for pre-election gifts and pre-election and permissive purchases. The budget proposals are thus based on untransparent and constitutionally and legally disputed surplus spending for this year, which is not regulated by budget changes. Nor does the budgets include – what the predecessor said before me – government plans on tax changes, only the Income Law brings down the budget to a profit. Since this year's realised consumption is already more than planned for more than 1.5 billion, it would, of course, make sense, and above all, it would be essential for the government to allow a transparent review of over-expenditure and propose a rebalancing for this year. It is not possible to understand government priorities from the budgetary plans, as resources increase practically to all budgetary users. We will all find it difficult together to find items where funds are falling, but yet we have a detailed examination to see the government's ideological blindness. During the epidemic crisis, inflation and rising energy prices, there is a lower social aid line. However, the coalition Members and their supporters are further burdening all pre-election donors with the amendments, without thinking about their price. We can see the cuts in funding for cultural programmes and the activities of NGOs, but above all it will be in the eyes that the government wants to submit independent state institutions because it has not taken into account financial plans when preparing budgets, such as the judiciary, the Constitutional and Supreme Court, the Council of Justice, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, as well as the Council of State and our National Assembly. Someone once said that the budget is an ideology that is translated into numbers; and you, my dear colleagues and colleagues, the budget proposals prove this. Not only does the government not listen, but it really believes that all subsystems must submit to one command. And there is something else that can be seen from the budget proposals. This government simply repeats the patterns that we have learned from past governments under the leadership of the Slovenian Democratic Party. First of all, complete loss of self-control in debt and in some way headless spending, where only consumption, but not its effectiveness, is important. All of this is passed on to the next governments and future generations. Secondly, the tax cuts that impoverish the state treasury to the point that this state treasury can no longer help people and the economy. And thirdly, then, of course, savings plans that cannot be implemented differently than sharp cuts and various ZUJFs, which are ultimately the weakest, are followed, and immediately, due to the decline in public consumption, the so-called economic growth is halted. While the government argues that there will be no new ZUJF, how else can we explain the projected reduced consumption in 2023 unless the government proposes any measures to offset the costs it has put permanently in the budget structure by its decisions. In just 20 months, despite the epidemic, the government has brought us from the budget surplus among the five worst countries in the European Union, which will be required to reduce public spending when the debt limits of the first target are reinstated. From all of this we can only draw one conclusion; this government is certainly planning the ZUJF, just not hoping to talk about it. It is counting on it to provide with all these promises a new mandate in which it can rule even more voluntarily and in some way more in its own way. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been drawing attention to the government's three key mistakes in its financial response to the pandemic. Firstly, the government has, I think, made a mistake in the guarantee scheme, which, with guarantees of 2 billion through banks, would provide the necessary liquidity assistance to the economy. In this way, other countries have primarily helped the economy, and with us, money is accumulated in banks. With us companies have deferred taxes and received cash aid and thus, of course, burdened public debt, which, in our view, would be burdened by a successful guarantee scheme to a much smaller extent. Neither has banking regulation been helpful. Secondly, unlike other countries, the government has paid a billion allowances in a large and undirected manner, rather than actually nominally paying compensation to everyone for their exposure to life, especially those who have really been in contact with all covid patients. The risk of a health worker’s life could, in my view, be better rewarded, for example, depending on the time and extent of exposure. It is only — and I must commend — that with the last raise in the pay grade, the healthcare staff has responded properly and appropriately to our government. Thirdly, for the European Union's money from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, the government has, in our opinion, drawn up an ambitious national recovery and resilience plan that does not use the basic assumption that the financial challenges ahead of us require the best combination of financing for all forms of investment – in people, in reforms and in project content and in infrastructure. The combination of return and non-refundable resources should increase the multiplication of European funds to the greatest extent possible. If ever, we would expect budget documents to receive dialogue and agreement in these times; of course, we are witnessing exactly the opposite. Unfortunately, the current government does not listen to anyone, not to the opposition, not to the social partners, not to NGOs and not to civil society in general. And the result of what we have heard not only from the types of policy but also from the types of profession, from various economists, analysts and even budget users, is that I am not exaggerating, if I say so, one of the most questionable budgets in the history of the country. For they test the way to financial ruin, which will be repaid at an enormous price by many future generations. Social Democrats to this public financial threat, if you want, we will not contribute our votes and we will vote against the proposed budget documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Luka Moonec. He will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much and very much! I will also begin with the observation made by my predecessor, which is that the budget is a policy that has been translated into numbers. In several hundred pages of the tables, it is necessary to find the story and the story they bring to two budgets this time is that the government buys power with them in the country. The budgets are set like this. The budget for 2022 will already have the second largest structural deficit in Europe, minus 5.5%, that is the data of the European Commission, followed by Romania alone. And in this data, minus 5.5% are not even included in the cost of long-term care, the recent salary increases and the income reform that you intend to cut into the revenue of the state budget for an additional EUR 800 million. This is not included at all, and we are already the second worst in Europe. You're acting about the way President Trump behaved in the United States. His budget economy has been called Trumponomics. But she meant the following. On the one hand, tax cuts, especially for the rich, and on the other hand, he promised everyone more – more – spending, more for investments and so on. That's how this government behaves. In order to preserve my face, and here I am going to the budget for 2023, as some serious conservative party, you say that in 2023, when these governments are no longer of course, you will reduce the budget's revenue by as much as 800 million euros, and, as the Fiscal Council warns, the measures or policies to achieve this are not presented at all. You're turning this over to the government's back to replace you. The budgets ahead of us are extremely pre-eminent. The government, with budget 2022 so to speak, wants to buy as much popularity as possible in people and is excited about what medium-term effects this will have. But if we go in order. We're not in Levica among those who advocate fiscal rules. On the contrary, we opposed them all the time. We are also not among those who, in all of these stories, point to debt. We are absolutely in the position that, during the crisis, the country must lead a so-called expansion fiscal policy. So when the economy stops when we have production cuts, GDP, employment cuts, unemployment increases, the country has to intervene with higher government spending. That's right. But it is necessary to ask two questions: Whether this consumption is meaningful and whether it has positive effects on the medium term. If we could learn something in the last decade, this is it. In the previous decade, after the 2008 crisis, much more damage was caused in the European Union than the financial crisis itself, which erupted in 2007 and 2008 on both sides of the Atlantic, by austerity measures, which forced European countries in particular. The austerity measures implemented at the time continued to be saved by banks with billions of euros and then exposed the account to people. The same story could be followed up with us, first came bank resolution, all of which amounted to €5 billion in a few years, about as much as the covid crisis, followed by austerity measures. So, at the expense of the social state, at the expense of the poorest, even widows lost widow's pensions and so on, but these holes had to be patched up in the budget. And there have been political problems that we have been following in Europe since today, and there has finally been a lost decade. It should be stressed that many countries have not come out of the crisis or to covid after this treatment. At that time, it was still about Italy, Greece and so on. In short, this story has taught us fortunately in Europe. This time the European Union did not approach the crisis simply on the shoulders of the countries, but did not approach the way to say that each country should be found in its own way, but decided to take a different approach. The European Central Bank guarantees purchases of government bonds. There were large-scale aid programmes in the fight against the economic crisis, which was parallel to co-vid, and reimbursements, grants and low-cost loans are available to countries. In comparison with data from the decade, in 2012 and 2013, Slovenia also owed more than 5% of the interest rate. For 2020/2021, when the European Union led a different policy, the weighted interest rate for Slovenia was 0.18%, is below the inflation rate. And in such a situation, we agree in Levica that it was more than reasonable to go into an expansion policy, more than a reasonable lease; but the problem is how this debt was spent. Like I said before, you have to look at it through two criteria. The first is what its short-term effects are, and the second is whether it builds on the medium term the resilience of the population and the country to future crises. Here the government lays down both criteria. We will give the total of about €5 billion for covid measures. However, the data show the following: in 2020, after the European Union's increased deficit, we were fourth, and after the fall of GDP, we were tenth. Thus, the fourth, after how much we have increased national consumption, is the tenth, after how much GDP has fallen, which must not surprise us too much. For example, the government has already spent as much as €900 million on covid supplements in the public sector. The most engaged surgeon has paid 70,000 euros out of this, which could, for example, be a more meaningful use in the research sector, mean the employment of two young researchers for the whole year. State aid is questionable. Contrary to what we have always warned in Levica that business guarantee schemes need to be set up conditionally, the right means must be conditioned by the fact that jobs are indeed maintained and distributed unconditionally. And the result was that, in the most extreme cases, if we look at Safilo or Adient, we even saw that the owners had bribed state subsidies and then withdrew production from Slovenia and left behind hundreds of unemployed. Finally, it must be remembered that despite this enormous state spending, we will all talk about EUR 5 billion, the first in the world after covida-19 infections, which, of course, also has something to do with, as has been pointed out earlier, that the air ventilators have been installed at the Ministry of Defence, but we do not have them in schools or in nursing homes. And in the coming years it will be necessary to ask how much money was lost by corruption, still remains unexplored about how masks were bought, how fans were bought, how they were bought, and how they were bought tests and quick tests. But one thing is clear. When we ask where the money went, we will see that the savings of Slovenian households in banks increased from August 2020 to August 2021 from 22 billion euros to 24 billion euros. The wealthier households, those who can save, those who do not live from hand to mouth, have accumulated 2 billion euro savings during the covid crisis. This also tells us how meaningful the use was. Finally, it must be said that this government has lost control of the budget. Before considering these two budgets, we have discussed in Parliament the budget decree for 2021, where it should be pointed out that you have already gone over the original budget plan for EUR 4 billion and a half, in which you proposed that the government receive an additional EUR 670 million in its own hands, which is not allocated in the budget documents, which is, by the way, unconstitutional. Article 148 of the Constitution is very clear: “All revenue and expenditure to finance public spending must be covered in the country’s budgets.” These 670 million are not allocated in the country's budget, but the government joins the right to have the money as it wants. You say – we need it for urgent investments in health care and for the implementation of PKP9; where you have already been lied to by the Fiscal Council, which clearly stated that the amount of these measures does not reach even half of 670 million, which can only mean two, A, you have lost control of the expenses for covid supplements and wages, or, B, you have booked money to buy pre-election gifts to your target audience. And now I'm slowly moving on to 2022. This reservation that the government can allocate money through budget documents, you have also entered into the law on the implementation of budgets for the next two years. In the opposition, we have drafted an amendment that was rejected on Saturday, which once again points to the pre-election attitude of these documents. Thus, in the pre-election year, the government would like to have a certain amount of free hands on how the money will be spent past the budget documents, if it seems to it. And secondly, now I have spent a lot of time looking back, in the last two years, because it is also important to look ahead. If we judge this state spending according to the criteria I have mentioned, the short-term efficiency and the medium-term are true, we will find that two years are lost behind us. Instead of doing something useful on our part when money was cheap when we had the European Union — to change according to the previous ten years — with money, for example, building apartments, modernizing health care, building homes for older people, investing in science or research, or preparing for a green break, you spent more or less on opposite spending. Some of it's gone into savings, some of it's been run over by companies that haven't kept jobs, some by people in the public sector, and I'm talking about the best-paid surgeons that are questionable, but they've done something to increase their productivity at the time. But nothing happened for the middle term. The first major investments in this respect are only budgeted for 2022, as the items at the Ministry of Infrastructure, railways and roads are increased in particular. Something will also go for health care, but here it has to be said that the most in the gallop are increasing resources for defense. Investments in the Slovenian Army will amount to 133 million more in the next two years than investments in health care. Defence Minister Matthew Tonin said that the defence budget was expected to reach 1.6% by 2028, in fact this item will be implemented in 2023. In 2023, this item will amount to €896 million, which means that the expenditure on arms and the military is the fastest growing in these times. Here it should be stressed that this is an unproductive consumption, because with boxers, armoured men, the weapons we buy will not create any jobs in Slovenia, it is the import of foreign technology. In contrast, the things we point out and make amendments bring benefits to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Firstly, investments in health care should be intensified. Above all, we are stuck at the primary level, where there is a shortage of staff and capacity, and in the next two years, the government has allocated 7.5 million euros in budgets for primary health and says that the municipalities will support the manca. The municipalities will not be able to cope with this because you are reducing their income at the same time, while income is a significant inflow into municipal budgets, with up to EUR 400 million out of EUR 800 million being known in the budgets of the municipalities. Of course, the minister will reply that this is being corrected by increasing the principality of the congregations to receive 90 million or 95 million more in the next two years, but this will not replace even half the output. If you compensate for these funds from other items, of course, it means that the budget will have to be cut at other levels. Then we have the shortsightedness of these budgets. While fuels, energy, food are being irritated, social security funds are shrinking or remain the same. Instead of calculating the new level of minimum cost of living, you have left the funds as they are, which means that the poorest parts of the population will be exposed to poverty at these trends, more expensive prices. There's a lot of pressure on the apartments. In the capital, you already pay about 4 000 euros for a square meter of average housing. Nevertheless, the only serious item for housing in the national recovery and resilience plan is €60 million, which is significantly less than what this country would need. If we wanted to build 10,000 missing public rental apartments, we would need 900 million euros; that is, the money you spent on, say, public sector supplements, or the money you will spend on investment in the purchase of weapons. Then the climate. We all know that after the onset of the crisis, the main story to be prepared for will be the climate crisis. And the items look like this. Adaptation to climate change in three different ministries totals €50 million, which is more than before, but at the same time the same item at the Ministry of Finance decreases from 374 million to zero. So the net impact of your climate policies will be minus 324 million euros, even scurvy in preparation for the climate crisis, with this very generous budget in general. If I draw the line, in the last two years, we have witnessed large spending of money in particular, and it shows that there will be nothing different after the adoption of these budgets. On the one hand, you would lower taxes on income, especially for the rich, the best paid, and on the other hand you promise to invest heavily in health care, where we have seen that the situation is not the same, in nursing homes where you do not reach the promise. You reach them mainly in arms purchases and, indeed, there will be some more money for infrastructure next year. But this government, by its budgetary policy, will be remembered in a similar way to that of Donald Trump in America, is said to be someone who, for the popularity he buys, gets excited about what public finances look like. On the one hand, I'd lower taxes, and on the other hand, I'd promise all sorts of things, whether they're realistic or not. People are not stupid, and this will be clearly seen in the elections as well. Our common problem is that you obviously do not care what happens after these elections and what legacy you will leave to the next governments in a public financial sense. Therefore, we will not support any of the budget documents for the next two years in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will be the last to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! Although our thoughts have been the most precious to us for quite some time with a healthcare professional who saves people's lives, which is also the last fundamental human right, that is, life, needs to be addressed more rationally, and that is why budget documents on the agenda are so rational. Maybe to refresh your memory. This government was created because the previous government had resigned. She gave up on her own. The previous opposition did not throw away the previous government. And this government listens. He also listens to the opposition. That is why we support and support and support some good opposition law, budgetary amendments and so on. Above all, for us and for this government, it is extremely important, more than valuable regional visits, where we meet key people, decision makers responsible for the development of individual regions, and we listen to them as to what else to improve, what to do to make people's lives easier and better. I will not speak out in broad terms about how much the government receives from these regional visits. And that's what gives us motivation. What people say on the ground gives us motivation – Members and Members of the New Slovenia, so that I can say here that we will unanimously support the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023. I am also pleased, first of all, that the current President of ECOFIN here, Mr Šircelj, has raised the issue of updating the budgetary rules that we have already discussed today and that we will, which former Minister of Finance, Mr Maramor, has said that this is a rocket science, a rocket science. This in itself means that these are extremely imprudent rules, which perhaps – I agree with those who say – prevent the development of the Member States of the European Union. I hope and expect, if not now, that this will succeed the French Presidency, that we will come up with new rules, more acceptable, more developmental and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, in the week when the public's focus was on the protestors who stepped on the Ljubljana bypass, the Constitutional Court's decision on the PC condition in the public administration and the formal signing of the agreements had already failed several times, budgetary documents that would mark public finances and our lives in the coming years are almost overlooked. The preparation of the budget changes for 2022 and the budget for 2023 took place under the circumstances of the gradual recovery of the economy and in situations where work and life are still strongly affected by the covida-19 epidemic. Since the outbreak of the virus in the first months of 2020, this has significantly changed the scope and structure of budgetary revenue and expenditure. Budget policy has adapted to the new situation in a way that, for the first time, provides funding for the protection of the health of the population, I mean vaccines, vaccination, testing, health care, protective equipment. Secondly, it provides support to the economy and the population to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, I mean financing waiting for work and reduced working time, partly covering fixed costs, monthly basic income, tourist vouchers and so on. The government thus allowed a relatively rapid recovery of the economy in 2021, which is estimated to continue in 2022 and 2023. Development-oriented budgetary policies will also make an important contribution through support for economic recovery and resilience from both domestic and European sources. There can be no doubt in this respect that the preparation of both budgets takes place in uncertain situations related to the control of the epidemic and the recovery of the economy and consequently to volatile macroeconomic circumstances. The network of economic and budgetary policies will thus focus on the withdrawal of temporary measures to deal with the consequences of the epidemic and the implementation of structural measures to increase the resilience of the economy, supported by investments in key areas. Money, according to the budget documents, is about people. And politics has a duty to work for people, for the common good. Money is for kindergartens, primary schools, for senior homes, for development, for science, for research, for the economy, for infrastructure and so on. Money doesn't go to bank or any other shit. The government will never take away a single citizen's property, 100,000 freelancers must never be repeated again. These are the ones the European Court of Human Rights is currently dealing with, and the state of Slovenia will still have to. Trends are favourable, economic growth, consumption, investment and employment are increasing. In preparing the budgets for 2022 and 2023, the government has taken into account the emergency situation which is still due to the global covida-19 pandemic on one hand and the very good economic prospects for the future on the other. For this year, Umar is forecasting 6.1% economic growth. For the next two years, 4.7% in 2022 and 3.3% in 2023. On the left side of the political spectrum, we hear criticism that we are boasting that the government is boasting with high economic growth, that is 6.1%, the IMF even more, the European Commission even more – 6.4. But let's look at the nominal numbers. The GDP, nominally for 2019, amounted to €48.4 billion, fell for 2020 for understandable reasons to €46.9 billion, €2021 – an estimate of €50.4 billion, €2022 – an estimate of €53.4 billion and €2023 – €56.1 billion. So GDP is rising nominally. Trends in consumption, investment and employment are also favourable. Unemployment fell below 4% in September, which is historically low. In view of the favourable situation of GDP growth and the low interest rates, the country's debt share of GDP and interest costs should also be reduced. The debt expected to amount to 78.5% of GDP this year and 77.5% of GDP next year is still below the euro area average of over 100% of GDP. Under the line, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia is under average indebtedness and Slovenia is reaching above average results. We are satisfied with the development and investment-oriented budget. For the coming year, the government is forecasting revenue of 11.4 and expenditure of 13.9 billion euros. The deficit of €2.4 billion, or 4.6% of GDP, is 10.7% higher than planned last year, as some measures to help with the pandemic will also be needed next year. Investments in health care and other areas, including pensioners, allow a few words about this. Investments in health care have increased significantly. In this area in both years, the government is forecasting about €200 million of investment per year. Investment in nursing homes is also expected to increase substantially. 38 million, taking into account the amendment, if adopted, we will spend €38 million for older people's homes next year and about €28 million for 2023, a total of €66 million for older people's homes. It must also be said that a call from React-EU has just been completed, where some 93 million euros have been distributed. The investment-oriented budget also provides for investments in climate change adaptation, sustainable mobility, research and development, long-term supply and maintenance of water or watercourses. Municipal budgets will also be profitable as the average will rise from 628.20 euros per capita to 645 euros in 2022 and to 647 euros per capita in 2023 next year. An allowance for pensions is also provided for pensioners. They will receive between 140 and 450 euros next June, depending on the amount of their pension. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased with the great unity in the National Assembly in investment in health care. We are pleased that the National Assembly, in view of today's surprising, united situation, with 86 votes "for" and 2 votes "against" approved the law on the provision of funds for investment in Slovenian health. This is a good EUR 2 billion in the next decade, which means we will still have public health in 2031, thank God. Public health. Both university clinical centres are expected to receive a total of €763 million, general and nursing hospitals – 557 million, special hospitals – 214 million, primary health care, these are health homes in our municipalities, 200 million and so on. Science education institutions in the field of medicine will receive €200 million and €50 million are other health education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few more words about the European Union's resources. In the coming years, a growth in the expenditure of the state budget is planned as a result of the completion of the European financial perspective 2014-2020 in the area of cohesion and agricultural policy and the simultaneous launch of the drawdown of funds on the basis of the new financial perspective 2021-2027, the implementation of the React-EU programme and the Recovery and Resistance Plan. The European Cohesion Fund is drawn up in the Operational Programme Implementation Plan for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, published by the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy on 9 August 2021. Slovenia is eligible for EUR 3,068 billion of European cohesion policy funding during the period of the current financial perspective, and was subsequently eligible for up to EUR 333 million of cohesion funding from React-EU for the management of the effects of covida-19 epidemics. In order to adapt the drawdown dynamics, in the 2022 budget change and in the 2023 budget draft, these funds are planned to be drawn up together with financial instruments in the overall perspective of 2014-2020 at the level of the total envelope of €3.4 billion. The state budget proposal for 2022 envisions €770 million of cohesion and structural policy expenditure and €182.5 million for React. For 2023, €142.4 million from the React programme and €377 million from cohesion and structural policy are proposed. For the implementation of the common agricultural policy, a good EUR 372 million is planned in 2022 and EUR 410 million is poor in 2023. The main funding is for the actions of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 and direct payments in agriculture, which we particularly welcome in Novi Slovenija. For the implementation of the smooth transition to the new programming period, the European Commission has made it possible for farmers and other beneficiaries to be granted support from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in 2021 and 2022 under the conditions of the current legal framework by allocating additional resources for 2021 and 2022. For the Rural Development Programme, which is particularly important for New Slovenia, the proposal for amending the budget for 2022 provides for a good EUR 220 million and the draft budget for 2023 provides for a weak EUR 254 million. The projection shall take into account the dynamics of payments for projects from the 2014-2020 programming period. A few more words on the implementation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Under the Next Generation EU programme, Slovenia can draw EU funding from the Recovery and Resistance Fund in the years 2021-2026. The basis for the use of these funds is the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which Slovenia, following its adoption at the Government on 30 April this year, forwarded to the European Commission, which was confirmed by the European Commission at the beginning of our Presidency. In the Recovery and Resistance Plan, Slovenia identified development areas with relevant reforms and investments that will contribute to mitigating the negative economic and social impacts of the epidemic and prepare the country for the challenges posed by the green and digital transition. Each component within each development area includes substantively related reforms and investments. The relevant milestones and targets are also identified for each measure. In this way, their implementation will be monitored in the light of efforts towards a green transition. None of the measures should materially, significantly harm the environment. Just a few more numbers. The dynamics of RRF funding, this is a non-refundable part and loans, a green transition – total of 1,064 billion, digital transformation – almost 317 million, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth – good 737 million, health and social security – good 364 million; a total of 2 billion and a half. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are many more reasons for the New Slovenia Group to support the budgetary documents that we are considering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded with a joint introductory presentation and a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on both proposals for acts. We are moving on to a debate on each proposal for an act separately. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. We are moving on to a discussion on the draft amending budget. We will discuss individual parts of the draft amending budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the General Part, the Special Part and the Development Programme Plan shall be considered. We are therefore moving on to the general part of the draft amending budget. First of all, before I even opened the list, Mr. Minister wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I certainly want to respond to some of the arguments expressed in the presentation of the positions, although I have already explained some things in the opening recital, but I still think it is necessary to clarify here further that there would be no misunderstanding. The first thing I would have answered or explained was — yes, I was in the parliamentary benches before February of last year or March of last year, and I advocated the discipline and sustainability of public finances. Here. Then there was the resignation of the previous government. The government received a new suit led by Janez Janša and I took a new function or role and received a completely empty budget reserve from which to finance the costs of the epidemic. And at that point, I had to decide whether we would finance these costs, whether we would finance these expenses or not, whether the country would help people's health, or whether the country would save their lives. And during the sustainability of public finances without debts, I decided on debts to save lives. That's all philosophy. I don't think there's another philosophy. And even today, we are in charge of saving lives. It's in the first place. And second, of course, part of the money must remain as a reserve to reduce the risks if the situation gets worse. And as health conditions now show, I can say that the situation here is not dying. Unfortunately not, because he's undervaccinated. And I called, not only did I ask people to be vaccinated to protect their health and, of course, the health of others. This is, of course, also the kind of thing that is necessary for this crisis to die. We owe ourselves to the health crisis and to save lives and to reduce risks. There is also no matter of debt here, and not only are we, and others are in debt, but that is not the reason why we have to, but only point to a common European policy on this. The common European policy that European policy has also demonstrated its solidarity in the fight against cod crisis. This is the only philosophy we see here. These expenses, of course, will also be redistributed for the following years. I mentioned that the European Commission is preparing a programme. First, the programme for countries to reach the current Maastricht deficit criterion is called a minus 3%; and then the so-called structural deficit will be taken into account or reduced. Structural deficit is one of the indicators. That's what I said yesterday. It is not the one after which the European Commission values the country's programme at the time of the withdrawal, because a derogation clause is in place, but at a time when the crisis will be no more, the country will be called upon to reduce this structural deficit in the medium term. This is said to be the case in 2023, no action will be taken by the European Commission to move towards and so on. The matter will be resolved gradually, despite the fact that there has already been a debate that fiscal rules can change, it may not. However, I would ask that these negative, pessimistic judgments and convictions wait at least until the European Commission has actually spoken. And that what we're saying is based on data. The second thing I would say is that no Trojan horse is involved in this budget. This budget is about additional resources, in particular to save people's health and life and to invest. Like the primary sector where it is financed, the health sector. And this is where these investments are completely defined. I mentioned General Hospital Celje, UKC Ljubljana, energy rehabilitation, we are talking about the emergency centre of Ptuj, the Center for the Treatment of Children's Disease of Šentvid near Stična and so on. From this point of view, these investments were simply undervalued or not in previous years, because at the time the budget was not budgeted for health, except once in one of the previous governments, when 130 million were made, but here to cover the loss of the Health Insurance Institute, and a special law was made at that time. This government has simply decided to finance health care from the budget in order to finance homes for the elderly. The previous ones did so minimally and there was no major emphasis on this. There were other investments in human resources, NGOs and so on. The next thing I'd like to say is that this is not the case right now, so that, in the wake of the surprise of the fact that, at the time of the predicted amendment of the Income Act, the people's wages will increase, the financial collapse will occur and so on. Income is 10 billion. You speak or speak on an annual basis of 200 million, with revenues already in the first ten months higher than those planned in preparation of the Income Act 260 million. These potentially lost revenues have already been covered. I'm talking about potentials, because this policy predicts more employment, higher employment means more income, means more contributions. From this point of view, this manka, we are speaking on the basis of a method, on an assessment made almost a year ago, is actually covered by this revenue for 2022. But anyway, the repetition of one and the same without data may be worth it; but of course I would ask that it be based on data. Secondly, if we are talking again about the structural deficit, then, for the structural deficit, firstly, it is necessary to say that the European Commission does not assess countries on this basis at the time of the withdrawal clause, and secondly, that this structural deficit itself has a structural deficit, an institution, a set of traps that have already been discussed, in particular with regard to transparency and non-transparency. However, this government will prepare, when necessary, a medium-term programme to improve the structural deficit in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act. This is subject to the Fiscal Rules Act. Here, of course, is the fundamental question of whether consumption is meaningful. They should evaluate people themselves and assess whether it makes sense to invest in health care, invest in kindergartens, schools, science to invest in roads, the way to invest 374 million in the environment. Because this does not mean mania, as was actually said in one position, but means transferring this money from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of the Environment and to other ministries. Of course, there is a need to take a closer look at these budgetary documents as well. The next thing is of course a question, and here you are referring to Professor Mojmir Dark, not me. And you mention his statement that it is a financial policy of the wild west. Look, this isn't about any financial policy in the wild west. All revenue and expenditure shall be included in the State budget. The budget is based on laws and regulations, every expenditure of the state budget is documented, sent to the National Assembly, the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I heard, I was not present here, there were state secretaries present, that there was no debate on redeployments at all on the Commission. This was accepted by the National Assembly without discussion that it was all going in a perfectly legal manner. It is said that the Court of Auditors assessed the correctness of the budget for 2020 and gave the 2020 budget a positive assessment. It's a positive assessment. The previous budgets, as I know, have not received a positive assessment, but have received a reservation. Here you are telling me they are. All right, the former have also received a positive assessment, but the budget, which you say is illegal and so on, has received a positive assessment. From this point of view, as Minister of Finance, I simply cannot pass over not talking about a positive assessment, that this is a completely legal matter, that all expenditure is controlled, that there are excesses such as high supplements and so on, as you say. Of course, the Court of Auditors will review the entire budget expenditure once again. You're talking about the economy having liquidity problems. He doesn't have any. And liquidity was guaranteed to the economy. And that is why we do not have the downturns of businesses today and, of course, we also have more jobs than we did in 2019, compared to a year where the economy went perfectly normal. You're talking about lowering social assistance funds. They're downgrading because he's more employed. Because there will be more employees because we create jobs because we create jobs, because, of course, this government also creates more opportunities for earning, for higher wages, for higher pensions. And that's perfectly clear. The next thing I'd like to comment on is a recovery and resistance plan, if it's bad. It was confirmed by the European Commission. The European Commission has endorsed and given a very similar assessment as it has given to Germany, France and similar countries. From this point of view, I believe that any matter can come in handy and that it is simply said here that something is wrong, even though perhaps it is not. It could probably be even better, but we still have a chance to notify more projects, and it's not even finished yet. However, we have already received over 200 million advance payments for all these projects. And it can't be wrong because the additional funds will be paid out of the European budget on the basis of certain measures that will actually be taken. And all of this is set out in these plans. The next thing I want to say is about the investments I've been talking about. And here, in my presentation speech, I also said that if there were no investments, the budget would have been a surplus, simplified. But we can look at it from the magnetogram, because it's documented with numbers. But here we go to investment – green and digital. And they represent one third, more than 35% of this budget. In view of the fact that these investments will have greater profitability than the interest rate and will therefore have a multiplier effect. Investments in health care, investment in education are certainly also investments that have a multiplier effect. Investment in infrastructure also reduces the cost to the economy, so that I have to respond from this perspective – yes, in the long term, in the medium term, these investments will actually bring a better environment and, of course, also a potentially more competitive situation and, of course, a country, a society with higher social security. From this point of view, I would say once again that this debt, which is, yes, the debt itself, can always be questionable – but once again, this debt is intended for investments that will bring more added value. And from this point of view is completely under control, all the projects are under control and, of course, from this point of view, these investments also mean a greater opportunity to make life in the country better for people. And on the other hand – yes, we follow the recommendations of the Fiscal Council, we pay attention to the deficit, we pay attention to the debt. The trend based on indicators recognised by the whole of Europe and the whole world, as a percentage of gross social product, shows that the debt in the coming years decreases to 76% of gross social product in 2023 and 2024 from the current 79%, and that the deficit in 2023 decreases to 3.3% of GDP in 2024 below 3% of GDP. These are the facts. And these facts are set out in the budget. These are estimates, of course, and on the basis of these estimates, we expect that they will also be realized, based on the investment budgets that we have actually deleted here, by reducing the risk of spreading covida-19. This is the greatest risk, and I expect that, if not elsewhere, in this matter, the whole policy and all those who have an opinion on people will go in the direction of asking people to be vaccinated — for the benefit of all of us and for the benefit of every individual. That's the second time I've done it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. First he gets the word "Jura Ferrjan." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u138	Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Minister of Finance, Secretary of State, distinguished guests, honourable Members and all those who accompany us are warmly welcomed! We have before us one of the most important documents that we are considering in the House of Democracy each year – the budget for next year or the draft amending budget for 2022. Initially, I would like to make a few points that we have heard in the past hours. We've heard a few flossules or words like that, it's a pre-election budget, and I don't know what else. Next year there are elections and it is normal that the label for this budget may also be a pre-election budget. But the priorities of this government have not changed, even if it is a pre-election year or an election year. This government gives money to the Slovenian economy, to health care, to the educational system, and past governments have given money to others – hundreds of millions of NGOs for years and years. These are priorities that differ substantially, and these are facts, no matter how you name the budget document ahead of us. This is also a reflection of how obviously in another government we would face the world situation, the covida-19 epidemic; obviously studies and NGOs. This is also evident from the introductory discussions you had. It is also true that the current government with this budget also solves a number of emerging situations, which have been a priority. And what I said in the first place, all these priorities that have been on your side have caused us today to have health problems, that there is a shortage of staff, that we have, after all, problems in education infrastructure and so on. It is important to realise that this budget is an investment and that investments that are heavy in the total value of more than EUR 2 billion have multiple effects, both medium-term and long-term effects. And this is the added value of this budget that it brings. As a result, there are more investments because there are more resources that go directly to all people in our country, regardless of where they live, because with this budget, the whole country is developing and progressing. This means higher added value, which also means higher incomes for citizens and citizens, higher consumption and, of course, higher quality of life. 1.2 billion euros is earmarked for transport and transport infrastructure; 2.2 billion euros for education and sport; in health care we will spend four times as much on investment as this year. The data, which is at least very important to me personally, is that it is as much as €36 million for homes for the elderly. How important this is, we can see in the last months of facing an epidemic. I'm going to touch the area of risk. In each budget, even when prepared in some stable times, there are certain risks. At the time of the epidemic, covida-19 pandemics are even greater. However, the fact is that each of us can contribute to making these risks as low as possible by vaccination in order to take measures into account. Because it is precisely from this intersection, from tackling the epidemic, from the virus and from the control of the virus that the risks to the budget are going to be on both the income and the expenditure side. The fact is that the appropriate measures of this government have led to the fact that indicators also show us a very encouraging picture in the international field; and it is on the basis of these indicators that a budget document is prepared that we have before us. We have average economic growth, we have one lower unemployment in the European Union. The promises are also encouraging for 2023. I would point at least to economic growth here. According to the European Commission's latest forecast this year, it is expected to be 6.4% in the coming year, i.e. the year in which this budget is addressed, 4.2% and then a year later, in 2023 – 3.5%. Allow me to point out this, because there was quite a bit of talk about this government being in debt at low, historically low interest rates, and we spent money primarily and primarily on mitigating the consequences of the epidemic, so that money went directly to people that went to the Slovenian economy. And this is also reflected in the fact that we have saved more than 300,000 jobs, more than 300,000 pensioners, those with the lowest pensions, have received solidarity allowances, those with the lowest even EUR 600 in total. Much has been done, and this means that money can be directed at people, so that money can be directed to increase prosperity for all the inhabitants and residents of our country. It is also important to note that there will be no later manipulations, that interest expenditure on servicing the government budget in the past year, i.e. in 2020, amounted to €772 million, which was 1.7% of gross domestic product, which is 300 million euro less, respected and respected than in 2014, when compared with GDP, 2.9% of gross domestic product. In particular, this nominal amount – €300 million less – is important. It is also important that this government, although all Member States have decided to finance and rescue the covid crisis through debt, that Slovenia owes less than average compared to the other Member States of the European Union and that the Ministry of Finance and the current government intend to reduce this debt in the coming years. The projections show that by 2023, up to 76% of gross domestic product. The key to the debt is that he went money to people and the economy and not to elites and banks, as we have seen not so long ago, that we do not remember. It is important, in fact, to see directly in this budget, that the fiscal policy advocated by the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janša will not limit the recovery and economic exclusion after the crisis, but will encourage it. This is also addressed by the measures taken by this government, both the direction of the budget and some other legislative proposals already in the parliamentary procedure – the amendment of the Income Law, the Long-Term Supply Act, the de-liberation package and could still be listed. And it is this investment attitude that makes this budget beautiful, which I am sure will have long-term consequences that people in Slovenia will live better, that our business environment will improve, and that there will be more investments of both domestic and foreign capital in our country, which we know is a global advance. The measures taken by this government have also led to increased private consumption, an increase in international trade, growth in both exports and imports and higher employment. Anticoron packages, 9 of them, rapid response, flexibility was what graced the government during this difficult period. And of course, there are still difficult months ahead when we have to face the virus and defeat it. I hope that we will be as coherent in the future as we were in that call for parliamentary holidays. Unfortunately, many times I notice that this is not the case again and again. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude that we have an investment budget, a development budget, a social budget ahead of us. This budget brings progress and development to Slovenia, brings new kindergartens, schools, nursing homes, brings better health conditions, also brings improvements to road, transport infrastructure, and brings many projects that will improve the lives of everyone living in Slovenia. And that is exactly what I am pleased to see that the current government is aware of the importance of the situation we are in, and that measures that actually constitute medium- and long-term development policies must be taken, including the green transition. And that, as in fiscal policy, in this green transition, we somehow choose the best things and not cause any system collapse by hasty haste. In short, the work of the current government, which is reflected in giving to people, the Slovenian economy, to promote what is good, is also reflected in this document. That's why I'm going to support him with all the responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Good evening, everybody! I am pleased that I have come closer to the beginning of our debate, because I will say something about the procedure for preparing this proposal for amending the budget for 2022, which, of course, is also reflected in the content of the proposal. The fact is that the government has once again ignored or ignored the fundamental rules of the game in force in our country when preparing the draft amending budget for 2022. I therefore refer to the provisions of the Public Finance Act and thus to the ignorance of the Constitution, a constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court, which replaces certain articles of the Public Finance Act in certain parts. I am not in fact saying that this proposal is about any pre-approved budget or amending the budget, but I am saying that this proposal is essentially about an illegal proposal and a potentially unconstitutional proposal for amending the budget. I'm not lonely in this position. And that it is not just the words of a Member, I will also support my position with the view of the Constitutional Court, which, we know, is not just one body in our country, and I will support my position by means of a constitutional decision, which, we also know, is not just one act in our country. I believe that this precision may go to someone's nose or he doesn't want to hear it, but that there will be no evidence that what I'm saying has grown on my cabbage, according to my own words, I will rely on these two documents of these two institutions. If I briefly and very simply summarize these rules of the game or the provisions of the Public Finance Act and the constitutional decision replacing certain provisions in the Public Finance Act, this is somehow the case. In our country, the Republic of Slovenia, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, has a specific status, a specific legal status, or a specific institution. And this legal situation necessarily guarantees them independence and independence under the Constitution from other institutions or from other branches of government, particularly the executive branch. I am speaking, of course, of the National Assembly, of the State Council, of the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court in this decision also defines the special status of the Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors. Given their special status, which, as it is said, is guaranteed by the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has very well defined that it is as important as this constitutional position as the independent financial position of these institutions. We all know that finances are the ones that really define and enable the functioning of an individual institution or body. The Constitutional Court in the Constitutional Decision states: “These authorities, which I listed, should be able to exercise their constitutional role, must have a constitutionally equivalent position in the process of establishing the State budget adopted by the National Assembly”. It also writes in brackets: this does not mean an equal position, it does not necessarily mean the same, but it does not necessarily mean the same. Thus, these authorities must have the same constitutional position of the Government in preparing either the budget, or the budget changes, or the budget balance. Therefore, the scope of the resources for the work of these bodies should not depend on the Government. This is a quote from the Constitutional Court decision. The process of drafting an act, such as a budget or amending the budget, takes place in these institutions, which I am talking about, is also discussed by the Constitutional Decision, that each individual institution prepares its own financial plan, submits it to the Government, and beware, the Government is obliged to take it into account. That's a fact. In this decision, the Constitutional Court will write down, in order to take account of the financial plan and the preparation or adoption at the level of the Government of the act of the budget or changes to the budget or the budgetary balance, by way of this, I quote: “The possible non-conclusion of the Government with their proposals for financial plans”, i.e. these five institutions I am talking about “cannot have a binding legal effect, which is why the Government must include these proposals in the draft budget.” This is again a quote from the Constitutional Decision. The Constitutional Court also foresees a situation where any institution, either of these five, submits a financial plan derogating from the basic economic baselines for the preparation of the budget, which is the term used by the Constitutional Decision, is then the responsibility of the Government to establish a dialogue between that institution, in the domestic sense – some of the movements in which it would essentially eliminate those possible derogations, which constitute derogations from the fundamental economic origins of the preparation of the budget. And then, be careful, here is the most important thing that you have not taken into account in your government – in the event that the institution does not reach any agreement that you do not come along with the government's proposal for a financial plan and the proposal for an institution's financial plan, the Government is obliged to inform the National Assembly. Certainly, however, the Government does not have the power of the financial plan to replace itself with its own motion and the financial plan proposed by an institution, either the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court, the Council of State, which is to withdraw and put under the carpet. The Constitutional Court is very clear, and I will also quote this because it is significant. “If one of the independent constitutional authorities does not respond to this,” says the Government’s call to set up some kind of movement, “the Government is entitled to point out this to the National Assembly,” I have already said, “butar”, “note that it is not entitled to intervene in the proposal for a financial plan of that body. This means that the Government is obliged, once again, to respect such a financial plan as is submitted by an institution which has a specific position with the Constitution. What did your government do? However, in the process of preparing these changes to the budget for 2022, your government conducted a dialogue with these institutions in the first phase, or the institutions prepared and submitted their financial plans. These amounts, which were, of course, higher than the original amounts set out in the budget for 2022, we know that, according to some normal logic, a change in the budget is being prepared because some funds are needed, and all those institutions that have raised their financial plans in amounts have justified their needs. [[...]] By the way, let's say the Constitutional Court recorded more than a thousand cases this year or during a crisis co-examination period just to determine the constitutionality and legality of your rulings – the government's decisions you've taken. It is clear and clear that the Constitutional Court also determines that more resources must be provided for the successful and effective follow-up of the Constitutional Court because they have more to do because they also face the consequences of this co-existence of the crisis. Of course, not in such a way as health care, but the fate of matters is so great simply because of the co-existence of the crisis or because of your co-vidal decisions you make in the government and are potentially unconstitutional. And people are looking for their right in the Constitutional Court, that's clear. And in these procedures, when you have received from all these institutions the reasoned proposals for new financial plans, you have quietly withdrawn their financial plans in the Government, replaced them with your own, but I stress, without jurisdiction either in law or in a constitutional decision replacing the law; you have not informed any of these institutions about this manoeuvre, nor have you asked them anything about your manoeuvre. The fact that these institutions, including the National Assembly, have noticed that the lack of resources, that their funds are inconsistent with the financial plans submitted to the Ministry has occurred by accident. Since by the nature of the matter of this procedure it is that when the financial plan of an institution is submitted and if the Government does not provide any reply back, it is considered that the Government agrees or that the Government has adopted a financial plan because it must be adopted in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. As it is said, you have taken this back, quietly, unilaterally out of the world and replaced these financial plans with your own. That is why my opinion, once again, is not only my opinion, but also the Constitutional Court agrees with it that such a proposal for amending the budget for 2022, as we have before us today, is illegal, that is a fact, and potentially unconstitutional. And the Constitutional Court in its position makes it very clear that this procedure is subject to amendments to the budget for an infringement which has a natural breach of the law. So your government also, or even, or especially in such fundamental acts as the budget, dares to disregard, ignore and violate the legal provisions and constitutional decision or decision of the Constitutional Court, which replaces the legal provisions. This is unacceptable and it is important to note that people need to know and hear this because I believe that, in all these nice words, what you will ensure with this budget or with the change of budget, the fundamentals of our country must be forgotten that the rules of the game must be respected. They apply equally to everyone, both to me and to my colleague Han and to you, distinguished representatives of the Government. And here my observations also fly to the honourable Members and Members of the coalition, who will support this illegal and unconstitutional draft budget changes, as I have heard from the views of your parliamentary groups. It is unacceptable that, on behalf of the crisis co-host, you allow or allow in this house to subject yourself to such a judicial branch of authority, because let me mention, let's say only the judicial budgetary users will receive almost EUR 4 million less than they have requested with their financial plans. Or other information, such as the Constitutional Court and the Court of Human Rights, will receive almost €2 million less money than they requested in their financial plans. And it is extremely unacceptable that in this way you, on behalf of the co-existence of the crisis, are, on behalf of you, that the funds are now redistributing and ensuring that the consequences of the coronary crisis are mitigated, subordinated institutions that have a special constitutional position in our constitution. It's unacceptable. And before that, we were able to hear in one position of the coalition parliamentary group that this government is also listening to the opposition and that it is also accepting good proposals from the opposition. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, Not only does this government not listen to the opposition, it does not listen to the fundamental institution in our country – the Constitutional Court, which reminds you of the illegality of your proposal for amending the budget. And just for the end, I hope that people are really recording because all these pre-election mints that you're obviously giving with this budget change lose their glow when we turn the mirror and look at the lower legal standard of the rule of law in our country, to ignore the fundamental principle of the system of brakes and balances, the independence of institutions that have a special constitutional position. It is unacceptable for you to do this to us in front of our eyes, all at our expense and in the excuse of the covid crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much. A secretary of state gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone! With regard to the implementation of Mrs Heferle, many words were already made on Saturday by the Committee on Finance, but I would still like to explain once again. All the so-called non-governmental budgetary users, this is the classification we have, where we count all of these — the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and all the other bodies mentioned by the Member have more than €78 million in the draft budget for 2022. And this 2 million or a million 900 mentioned by the Member is the difference between the cut that was dealt with by the Government in June. We have already explained, and I will explain once again that it is summer, but I do not think that it is really necessary to explain it in particular, but the situation has changed a lot during the summer, I am sorry. And when the Government prepared the revised draft budget for 2022 and the budget for 2023, it primarily provided resources to address the consequences, or even to fight the co-vid, of investments that are heavily co-financed by EU funds. You know that the current financial perspective is being concluded and that these investments are being accelerated. A new one is being launched, and the Recovery and Resistance Plan has been adopted. And these are all investments that are good, as the Minister has explained several times today, to certain segments that may not have been well funded in the past. As far as the organs are concerned, if I come back, the minister has already explained on Saturday. He met with the Ombudsman, met with the President of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, which was most exposed, found that the difference you are now reading to us was due to – I don't know what to say – some misunderstanding, because the Constitutional Court was counting on certain premises. This is purely an investment, this is not a means of paying for any additional employment that the Constitutional Court would like to engage in for the fallout mentioned by the Member State. It is that this investment is not available at this time and that the Constitutional Court will, of course, have to carry out another procedure, which is likely to be known what these procedures are; and it is unlikely that these funds will be needed. As we've said many times before, I'll do it again. In accordance with the law on the implementation of budgets, if any of the statutory tasks are run out or if it turns out that something has been too planned for some reason, because it was not possible to plan initially at that time, there is a law on the implementation of budgets, it will also be under consideration in those days, and it has certain procedures on how these funds are provided. There has never been and there is no problem in providing funds to the Constitutional Court, to the Council of State or to those bodies that need all this. I find it very difficult to accept the evidence of unconstitutionality. These may be a bit of an easy-to-say word, because I don't think that's true. If it were true, it would probably hold for a number of previous budgets, when some other decision was not implemented for about 7 years, which also required budgetary expenditure, but I think that this may not be the place at this point, because we are talking about budgets for 2022 and 2023. As far as the judicial authorities are concerned, perhaps only the information for comparison. Together, all courts have provided 244, almost EUR 245 million. And these three million 800 differences that the Member has mentioned, I do not think there is yet such a proportion that it would not be possible to ensure during implementation if it proved to be necessary in fact. Since the assumptions on which these calculations were made are based to a certain extent also on additional jobs that are not yet realized, which, of course, means so much less resources if they are realised between 2022, let's say only for comparison. Maybe just that much for that first response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The replica, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u144	Yes, Madam Secretary of State, you didn't really understand what I was talking about. I'm not talking about numbers. I just gave it up for comparison. I was talking about your government not respecting the basic rules of the game, the basic provisions of the Public Finance Act and the Constitutional Court's decisions, which require you to respect and comply with the financial plans. Whether it's 1,000 euros, 100,000 euros or one million or more million, you have no right to break the rules of the game, you have no right to break the law, because other citizens must not violate it. If we break it, we're grounded. And you do not have the right to violate a constitutional decision that replaces the legal standards, it is said to be read as law. And don't focus so much on the Constitutional Court. What about the Council of Justice, which demanded some additional resources for two additional jobs in order to be more effective, and on the other hand, the government has prepared everything necessary for 600 additional jobs in the state administration. And when you say that it's not such amounts, once again, it doesn't matter what amounts they are; you're in violation of the procedure in the foundation. And if we agree once in our country that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, any of them, can tailor the rules for its operation, while citizens will pay fines on the basis of unconstitutional government decisions, then I fear for our future. And when you tell me that I was alerting me to the possible unconstitutionality of the proposal that is before us, then I have this document before me so that I can quote it because I knew that you would tell me that I was speaking in mind. The Constitutional Court is the one that first warned of possible unconstitutionality. It is a violation of the nature of the breach of the law and, consequently, the question of the constitutionality of such a procedure can also be raised. And that's what I'm talking about. The procedure shall necessarily be reflected in the content. And once you break the basic procedure, the content is necessarily clouded. Your proposal is illegal because of the procedure you have taken completely wrongly and completely in violation of the law. The content is therefore illegal and this is a fact. And here you have no other argument to reject this fact, except that you refer to numbers and banalize or relativize these few million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. We are therefore in the process of proposing amendments to the budget for 2022. In view of previous discussions, however, it must be said that the budget for 2022 was adopted last year. And then all these state public institutions could make their financial proposals, their financial wishes, their needs and all these proposals were taken into account in the 2022 budget. This proposal for amending the budget, which is under consideration today, does not take anything from these public institutions. They got what they wanted or expressed their needs and desires at the time, and today we are just moving on to deciding on changes to this document. On the other hand, these budgetary documents for the next two years are also being prepared for 2023 at a time when certain specific circumstances apply due to covid-19. And this situation is not only with us, but also everywhere in Europe and the world in general. And the opposition colleagues know that very well. That is why I can say that this whole rhetoric of theirs is a completely unacceptable deception to the public, but I also believe that in some way it is difficult for you to write and speak words that are nothing more than a mere political pamphlet. And that is why, first of all, I must first mention some of the facts that are supported by specific figures and not by flat-rate statements, as you like to do in the opposition. Today, we can confirm from concrete data that government anti-Korona measures were correct and not only correct, they were also effective for the economy and, consequently, for people. These measures have ensured economic growth in Slovenia, and this is also confirmed by the data from this fall's European Commission report. As can be seen from this graphic, which was based on the European Commission's report, as it is first seen that Slovenia is experiencing higher economic growth than the European average. This year's forecast is 6.4% economic growth for Slovenia, with an EU average of 5%. The following year is expected to be 4.2% and then, in 2023 – 3.5% economic growth for Slovenia, an increase of 1.1 percentage points higher than forecast for the euro average. Second, Slovenia is one of the countries with a favourable interest rate. In Slovenia, inflation is lower than the average in the European Union, with the Commission forecasting 1.7% inflation for Slovenia this year; the euro area averages 2.4. In the following year – 2.1 and for 2023 – 1.7. Slovenia also has lower unemployment than the European average. And in the coming years, it's going to fall. In Slovenia, 4.6% of unemployment is recorded this year, compared to the average of the euro area countries, where unemployment is 7.9%, then in the following year it falls to 4.5 and then in 2023 it is estimated to be 7.3% unemployment. Finally, Slovenia is also in debt less than the European average. As can be seen from this chart, the country's debt vis-à-vis the euro area countries at the end of 2020, Slovenia is located somewhere in the middle and is even slightly less indebted than neighbouring Austria. It is also the fact that covida-19 accounted for 19 percentage points on average in the euro countries and 17 percentage points in Slovenia. And all these facts speak specifically of Slovenia being so successful in dealing with the co-infection and, on the other hand, that we also have successful economic growth, low unemployment. After all, it also means good for our people. However, if I now move on to specific budgetary documents and within them to the budget items that we are considering today, I must first say firstly that, of course, I will be happy to support the budgetary documents myself. Why? Because it is particularly important to me that the budget money is allocated to people and not to banks and not to various studies, to pilot projects as was the case in the time of your governments. The budgets that we are considering today, i.e. the change for 2022 and then for 2023, are investment-oriented and are also development-oriented. I can say this because in both budgets there are only 2 billion euros in investments. And it is precisely investment that brings progress to development in the country, which allows jobs to be maintained, which also allows jobs to be created, jobs. And of course this is what brings quality and quality of life to all of us. It also highlights those investments that were still well fed during the time of your governments. I'm talking about investments in health care, infrastructure, both rail and road, flood safety investments, drinking water supply. There's money reserved for long-term care. Let me also say that this law — after many years to come — has brought this government to Parliament, which your governments of course have not been able to do. After years of waiting, funds were also provided for the construction of schools and kindergartens throughout the country. A major shift is also envisaged for the protection of elderly people, where there has been virtually no investment in the past, there has been no allocation of funds, including the provision of funds for investments in nursing homes. And I can also say that this budget is also socially oriented. The pensioners will be entitled to an annual supplement in five different classes, which you promised in the KUL coalition under the Sharčev government, but later you did not realize. Finally, I must also say that this government has significantly more obedience than ever before for the even development of the country. We have witnessed the centralisation of the state under the rule of Mira Cerar. At that time, 300 million were directed directly to the Ljubljana region, and all the other regions in the country were forgotten. And before that, Marjan Sarec was critical, of course, when he was still the mayor of stone. But then you took power, so the power takes over the so-called KUL coalition and the centralisation of this country continued under the authority of Marjan Šarc. At that time you had a record budget, but listening to the development of the local environment on your part, when you were in power, was suddenly gone, while these two budgets, which we are considering today, will give the municipalities more resources. And these are the funds that can then be earmarked in the local environment for the necessary investments. On the other hand, the balanced development of the country today is also possible through the adopted Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, which saves municipalities an additional €73 million at annual level, which can then be reinvested for the development of their places. And this is a budget that I will be happy to support these days because it goes against people because it will meet their needs and make investments in local environments come true. You know, all citizens of Slovenia are important to me, not just those from Ljubljana. Because all citizens and citizens deserve modern roads, we all deserve new, renewed schools, old-age homes, municipal infrastructure. These budgetary documents, which we are considering these days, also allow this to happen. To conclude, let me just mention a few concrete examples of investments from our environment covered by this budget. After years of waiting in Slovenska Bistrica, however, two concrete, large projects were being carried out, which I, as an opposition MP at the time, had warned the government of Sarčev, when Minister of Infrastructure Alenka Bratušek was unable to implement. We were threatened that we would not be able to obtain as much as 40 million European funds. But today this project is already being implemented on the ground, by building a hub with a subway in Prague, building a second stage of the western bypass, and renovating the sports hall in Zgornja Poland. All of these are projects that you were not able to implement in just one local environment at the time. Of course, there are many others in all municipalities that can be implemented by a concrete increase in averages. In short, I want to say that this is the budget we are building Slovenia with. And we are building it for all citizens and citizens, for a better future for all of us. That is why I will be happy to support this budget and, of course, all the accompanying documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The replica, Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u148	Dear Mrs Furman, you obviously did not understand me when I discussed the violations of the law that the Government is implementing in the preparation of this proposal for amending the budget. If this is a political pamphlet for you, the fact that your government is in violation of the law, then, respectable citizens and citizens, I really hope that you will hear this position of the SDS Member, that when opposition Members are reminded that your government is in breach of the law before the eyes of all, this is a political pamphlet for you. Member of the Commission, with this proposal for amending the budget, I have talked about this, subordinated the judicial institutions and all institutions which have a special constitutional position guaranteed in our Constitution because their financial plans, although supported by an appropriate explanation of why they need additional resources, have been swept under the carpet. In order for our country to still function as a democratic republic, which Slovenia is under the Constitution, an independent and independent judicial system is needed. This independence and independence also include the financial independence that you are denying by this proposal. And no restoration of a sports hall or circular in a local community will help our citizens and citizens when they are no longer able to seek their rights in an independent judiciary. Once this is over, the story is over. And you do it day in and day out. And not the government's attitude towards equal development in Slovenia, no, do not say so with this proposal; this proposal shows your government's attitude towards our rule of law, which you undermine once more.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Just a warning or a reminder, a violation of the law is determined by the court or the courts, a violation of the Constitution — the Constitutional Court; but in every particular case. These acts have not yet been in either process. Once they're judged by the court and found to be illegal, we'll be able to talk about an illegal act. If the Constitutional Court judges this and finds it unconstitutional, then we'll talk about unconstitutionality. Before that, all you can do is interpret things. Procedurally, Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u150	Mr President, I agree with you, and I have said in my debate that it is an illegal proposal and that it is an indication of unconstitutionality. However, I would like to make a procedural suggestion to you, Mr Vice-President, that you read a letter from the Constitutional Court addressed to the President of the Zorčič National Assembly dated 11 November 2021, in which the Constitutional Court points out that this is an illegal and potentially unconstitutional proposal that we have on the table today. It's just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u151	One is a letter and the other is a decision of the Constitutional Court. And when there is a Constitutional Court decision on the budget, then we will talk about unconstitutionality. As long as it's a letter, it's a letter. And it's not the Constitutional Court's decision. We continue the debate. The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! When I came to this National Assembly in 2018 when we discussed the first budget for 2019 and also for 2020, I was very confident that it was the task of the Government to share what created the economy, of course, together with the support of the public sector and other supporting institutions, particularly developmental institutions. When we deal with the budget today for 2022, 2023 and also for the past year, the past period in this epidemic, I have a completely different opinion, especially because of what you say by representatives of this government and by fellow Members on the right side. We give, we give, the money should be enough. We've been listening to this for two years. I hope you don't mind that this is how I started. Of course, you give, you don't share, you give; but it's important where you give from. It is said that everything that is given, because the deficits are very large, is given from loans, from debt. That's what I want to stress. So let's try to figure this out somehow. These huge numbers, many areas, the ministries that are in this budget, NGOs, and I don't know what else, if I end up with those other final expenditure, I've divided these budgets into three parts, which is now in 2021, which is almost the place. It is said, at 2022, 2021, which is somehow already behind us, and at these main budgetary areas 2022, which we are also looking at today at this point, as well as 2023. However, it is 2019 in this third area. Why? Because I'm going to touch him occasionally. If you want to understand the budgetary revenue and all this debt, even in the situation we are in, you have to have a period to rely on. This is certainly the financial year 2019, which was balanced; of course, under the fiscal rule, there were other rules. And that's what I'd like to point out in the first place. All those who are still talking today are repeating how this government did not give it then and did not realize it. How, though, if the fiscal rule was the one that cost us as Damocle’s sword all the time over our heads or shoulders?Oh, my God! This finance minister, who is today, then launched a constitutional assessment, in that year, which was practically the best in the history of Slovenia, in the year where we recovered a considerable public debt, almost 700 million, and created a surplus of 250 million. That is to say that we have exceeded even the fiscal rule that we were given. And that's what the Constitutional Court confirmed. Today, however, the situation is completely different, and briefly allow me, President, to lean on this current year and 2020, that is to say, at this time of epidemic. In this time of two years, we have created 7 billion and a half deficits, but the debt is greater than the deficit. On the 31st day. 10. The debt has already exceeded 8 billion. This is said to be comparable to the deficit; by the end of the year, we have to wait, which all items still affect this debt because we know that this is a complex matter, not only a deficit, but also other causes that cause it. I fear that when the year is over, the debt will reach 10 billion. That's what you're saying, back there. But if we go really hard on 2023 and also 2022, the matter is as follows as our colleague Igor Pecek said today when he gave his position – this is a Trojan horse. I repeat, we know what a Trojan horse is. A gift that then brings all the evil; in that sense. And such a Trojan horse for 2022 and 2023 brings additional deficits of 4 billion. So what's the big deal here now? But if we are now counting this deficit for all four years, we get a deficit of 11 billion and a half. But these 11 billion and a half are the same, believe it or not, all the revenues in 2022. The exact number is covered. The revenue in 2022 is at the same level as the deficit of all four years, as shown here. Next, what's the big deal? This deficit over the four years of 11 billion 434 is divided into 5 billion 616 for cot expenditure and 5 billion 818 for other current public expenditure unrelated to cotide. And that's our obvious, this is such a division that it's clear that we're not going to speak populistally. And our observation is primarily on this current deficit, which was uncontrollable, liked, wasteful, as has already been said, the wild west. That's the problem. And even in the case of fellow expenditure, our remarks are that in much of the work was uncontrolled, unnecessary, I will not repeat, because I once said out loud, even though I read the letter to someone who said - Why us? And then I was on Facebook or with a taped video so I couldn't afford someone. And the worst is that some have even taken advantage of the epidemic system and become unjustifiably rich; and I hope that they will be properly punished. But if there is something worse than this, it is called war profiteers — even those who already have enough — have become unjustifiably rich from the situation we are in. The current deficit itself is one that is very critical. What does that mean? Looking ahead, which of course has already been highlighted. In these three years, since I will then highlight what 2023 is, in three years, 2020, 2021, 2022, expenditure without co-existence increased by 34%. In three years – 34%. In the meantime, the decline in GDP was 4.2% and then two years of growth. On the other hand, income increased by 12% in the same period and 13% in all four years. That's the difference. And the difference between these revenue and expenditure is this deficit, which, of course, includes covid expenditure. And this is supposed to be at least 80% justified, if we kind of caricose, we're trying to make some sort of assessment. And now let's do it again. Of course, this income is mainly questionable, but for 2022 somehow after this data, when you have this analysis and compare it, it is also justified because it is at 2021. And somehow a person would then estimate that you have also taken into account this new income that you have prepared, which is invested, which is already in our deliberations, in order to reduce revenue. But we certainly don't understand in 2023 why such an increase — almost 300 million. Where, though, is the calculation that this novel will bring even 191 million less revenue in 2023 and even 246 in 2022? This matter is by no means explained. Of course, this is also a huge increase in European funds. In 2019 – from 727 million to 456 in 2023 and even higher in 2022. This is, of course, good, positive. Just to make it real. But then we'll ask ourselves about the investments on the spending side what's up with that. So, we kind of processed the revenue side. And we're going to the expense. Total expenditure is increased by 34% in 2022. Why? Because in 2023 these revenues are even slightly lower. That's why I'm talking about 2022 now, because then there's no growth. There is no more growth, although Umar predicts a GDP growth of more than 3%. And all the legal and contractual obligations for certain expenses, I don't know how that government that will rule in 2023 will come through. Although on the other hand, I admit, that is probably why you did so because you introduced all the promotions earlier in 2020, candy, 2021 and also 2022 as an election year. I can't say anything like that. I can't imagine anything else. Or you can explain to us what's here. However, let me also mention that in 2020, 2021 and 2022 you have severely reduced expenditure or expenditure on NGOs. What you have been Members of Parliament so many times in the last month in this state warning is what you are boasting about. We will save budgets because, you say, the left governments have so far been over-funded by NGOs. Or do we even know who NGOs are? Of course there are over 25,000, 27 thousand. The good 300 million was for NGOs, you cut them in half. They're fire companies, they're sports organizations, they're disability societies, they're mountain societies, they're pension societies, not to mention, because we're all going to be embarrassed. Slovenia is somehow an example in the world, in Europe, and we are confined to Europe, how in this area NGOs with this support, when the country gives them something to do, what they do for people. If we take that away from them, then it will fall to the country, because people will live worse in this area than they do now. This is said to mean that health will also be worse, sports organisations, various societies, how much work is being done on this, on recreation, on healthy nutrition, on the social side and in all these areas. And we would still take what they were meant to do, what they're doing instead of the country, from now on. They're already getting a lot less 'cause they're calling us, begging us. And they don't understand why, why they were first in line to be taken from them, to take from them. Despite all this, how many needless millions have we spent on unnecessary, or necessary, useless protective equipment, even in this epidemic, and I don't know who I don't know what kind of commission we've made possible and so on. However, when we look inside, transfers of individual households, which have inevitably grown in 2020, also goods and services. and therefore the transfers of individual households, goods, services and investments themselves, and there were more than 50 % growth and more than 100 % investment, 130 %. And now let's stop at these investments. We know, in terms of transfers, it's just that at this time it's been going under the covid of the expenditure and this help, but now, of course, it's hard to move it back and it's left at this level. Of course, the investments themselves are necessary, and health care is essential. The question is, how far can we go? Infrastructure needs and is also given, these two areas will give more or less, including GDP growth, even if domestic operators are to implement it. However, there will be no impact on the growth of GDP investment in the military, in defence. This is all the equipment bought in rich foreign countries, those who force us to raise consumption, the share of GDP for these investments in the military at the level they carry out. That's impossible. If our country were to produce military equipment, but it's better not to, it's better to produce something else, it's not humane, then somehow one would say. Thus, it does not have the right of a developing country to force them to invest in the military to the same extent of GDP as those which, virtually, generate profits from the sale of these weapons to developing countries, then also finance their weapons. That's unfair. And this investment is not justified. I guess I could still count on dozens of individual investments that are covered in hair, and I don't know what kind of services they're giving, but let's just leave it at that. This is the main area. One is this, and the other is that we know, especially in infrastructure, when you also planned from the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which, of course, is not an integral part of it, it just comes in, but it was thought that this will work. And that is also probably why this item is raised to go from the budget lines, because from the Recovery and Resistance Plan of course of the road, you cannot include infrastructure. And this is also one problem that beats us all together, not just your government, even your future government, because it was wrongly foreseen at the time. Of course, that's what we've been warning you about. Yes, this deficit, as we calculated, is still a billion and a half in 2023. And if we reject these 159 thousand cods of expenditure that are involved, we'll still come up with a billion 350 thousand deficits, a billion 360 thousand deficits in 2023, which means – you won't believe – 11.5% of all revenue. 11.5% of all revenue. And this deficit is higher, I'm talking without co-op, it's higher than the deficit in 2021, which was 10.4%. And that's the problem. That's why I went slowly, slowly. And we still haven't gotten that answer. Where there is a reason that then in 2023 the deficit of current expenditure is higher than in 2021, although we see, see, the data are even from the Fiscal Council, for the first time I talk about it, summarised by your budgets, that these expenditure is even lower, or smaller, than in 2022. This data shows that you have already introduced the ZUJF in 2023. I'm sorry I used that term, but it's a ZUJF for me. If there is no increase in expenditure, then this is for me the ZUJF, because back there are laws binding contracts for municipalities, even the part where pensioners are involved, although the decisions are, but it is clear from these expenditure that this is not taken into account for 2023. I'll touch the interest. That's also one phenomenon. Interest, when you boast so much, is the historical lowest debt. Yes, we also boasted in 2019, the interest rate in our government fell historically below 1% for the first time; 0.5% was the average debt cost. Now you've got him at 0.18. The most expensive loan or debt you still took is higher than the government in 2018, 2019, by the way, but let's leave it, the average counts. This is a matter of the situation and our minister was very good here, and he also repaid existing loans, which were expensive, from a time when interest rates were very high on global markets. And this, of course, is the task of every finance minister to do so. And that's good. That's why I said, if it were possible, let's take care of those deficits today, at least for 2022 and 2023, totaling 4 billion. That would be best, since today's interest rate is still slightly above zero, it's no longer negative. Who knows what interest rate will be next year in 2023. It is forecasted for inflation and everything else, 2-3%. Let's hope he stays here. As far as it's concerned, it's not a problem, just make it transparent what you're in charge of. And if we look now only in this sense of indebtedness, when we say that compared to GDP growth, debt fell. That's very, I'm sorry to put it that way. I know that this is an indicator that we use internationally within the European Commission, but let us pour ourselves some pure wine. Several times it has been said that at the end of 2019 each of us was carrying public debt, I say – the country sector, a good EUR 15 000. Today, it's already over 20,000 euros. I hope it doesn't just go to 21,000 when the year ends because we don't know what else is in the back. And in these two years, where we have taken into account the debt increase only in terms of the deficit; we have not taken other matters into account. And we're already at 23,000 per capita, which means 8,000 euros per capita over four years. But, write-write, 53% increase. 53% increase. However, compared with the growth of GDP in these years, the GDP of 2019 amounted to 48.4 billion and is forecast to be between 2023 and 56.1 billion, according to Umar. Also, in recent months this has been an increase even by a good 2 billion. The first spring estimates were around 52 billion in 2023. Let's just leave it at that. Now that's the score - 56 billion. Given the 48.4 billion, it is only a 16% increase. This is now this real picture, which we can say, from 15 thousand to 23 thousand, which means 53%. Will the people, citizens and citizens of Slovenia also receive an increase of 53%, so that this is comparable, how will we repay this debt? That's the question. And I'll be back again. In 2020, the deficit was 3 billion 0.75. The country's debt in the sector was 5 billion 688 million. I know, you can explain, it's also part of pre-financing, but it's important for what purposes and so on. But it's a net assignment. This is said to have increased the debt in 2020 by 2 billion 613 million compared to the deficit. We don't know about this year. One of your assessments was that it is still online by the Ministry of Finance, that this deficit is 4 billion and half to make the debt net 5 billion 673. It probably doesn't hold up anymore, but it's still up there. I'm the one who came out of it, but I'm letting it be a different picture. Yeah, this picture is really weird. I tried to present it very realistically, as it is. And let me conclude in this sense, and don't mind me mentioning again Dr Mojmir Dark, who has just revealed this matter, what is the European Commission's and also the International Monetary Fund's announcement that during this last period they are classifying Slovenia as one of those countries in Europe, or on top of that, with the greatest deficit in this period for 2022, 2023. And with that, there's a high risk. And why did I say that again? Because I want to stress again why this has happened. This was simply because in 2020 and 2021 you increased expenditure uncontrolled, wasteful and likely. That's a fact. We were previously bound to a fiscal rule. Not just our government, not before. And we stuck to that. And you've been staring at us the whole time. The current government, the SDS, in particular Members and representatives of the Government. But now it's all gone wild. And in 2020, 2021 is the problem created by uncontrolled spending. At that time, horses should be stopped, only for cot expenses should be taken care of, as some other countries that have taken this area seriously have done so where the effects, where necessary, are rational, necessary, deliberate. Not that you have increased the items even from current fiscal expenditure — more than you could. The ZUJF was partially abolished in the period mainly 2019, not entirely because the fiscal rule was not allowed; in 2020 and in 2021 you exceeded it twice. Give everything and give – enough money. I don't know how many magnetograms I don't know how many times you hear that phrase. That's enough money. People need to give it away. Is that thoughtful? During the crisis, we behaved irrationally, this hole in 2023, which is half a billion, is a reflection of this. Countries that have been rational, well-thought-out have almost balanced budgets in 2023 because they did not spend where they did not need to be. Covid's spending has changed into loans in one way or another. And we were exaggerating there. That's the obvious, so I went slowly, gradually, so we came to this again. And this deficit, let someone tell me how we will cover it in the coming years – a billion and a half. You know what a billion and a half is? We said good 11% of revenue, 245 million surplus in 2019 was 2.2%; and how could we argue that we had achieved this for the first time in history. How are we going to cover 11% of the deficit now, when and how? Yes, you say – growth is like this, we are all busy. It's just positive. If that were not the case, these results would be much worse. Thank God it is; and we hope that it will remain in the years to come, because otherwise we are cold. When I was doing a projection of stopping the expenditure, just like you were in 2023, then you consider stopping it theoretically, which is virtually impossible. Will the public unions, the congregations, and everyone else be watching us when the manca in the pension register, the health investments that we have raised to 2 billion, with the law approved, adopted in this national assembly, how will we cover this? Yes, of course, the solution is only in credits, but when the credit card is closed, it will be the devil; and at what interest rate. This projection to stop the expenditure and to calculate 3% growth, it takes five years to reach a balanced balance sheet. But if it's only 2% growth, it's 8 years. However, because we know that the growth of the economy then counts, but also the expenditure increases, for pensions, even faster because there is still a matter to cover. And there are a lot of things that need to be covered back. I forgot one more thing. I'll warn you one more thing. This is a reserve that, of course, you predicted in 2022 and 2023 in as high amounts as possible. A good 800 million or an average of 800 million each year; in 2019 only 200 million reserves were available. That's all I'm gonna say, and that's your joker, and I think I've said it all. This is your joker and with these reserves you will then redistribute where you will not succeed, because income will also be lower, or where you will want to make something that you like, and where you will spend something to give to someone. I think I just said everything essential. But here's what I'm gonna do. Since I have been monitoring all these crises for a long time in the world, especially since our independence from each crisis, Slovenia has been the worst in comparison with other European countries, especially those where there are some more robust economies. It's like a nail. And even this time with this European Commission announcement, which he made clear to the media by Dr Mojmir Dark, we have the worst picture, it will be the most difficult. Why do we need this? This is always because the policy is not a serious approach. And this time the same thing will happen. Why does this always happen to us? And since we think we're on a horse, and we're getting closer to the average of the development of the European Union, you think we are -- now we are; every such crisis then brings us back at least ten index points. In 2019, we were already approaching the European Union's average of development to 80%, nominally, following the GDP created and purchasing power to 90%. But we know what purchasing power means. What we create and spend in Slovenia can be spent on average with the other 90%, but if we use this money that we create here, we go to some other countries where it's getting more expensive, and we only get 80% for it. That's it. I think I said it right. And sometimes when I hear it here on the right – we will get closer, our goal is to achieve the best countries in Europe; yes, first we must reach the average of the European Union. And the average of the European Union is the goal of adding 60 000 per employee. And today we haven't reached 50. How old are we going to be 60? And when we reach 60, then all the other countries will go up, and the average will be higher. It is said that our development must be much faster. And that is why we are missing in these investment budgets, investing in development; instead of in the military. To reach 1.5% or up to 2%, we should give at least that to the economy. This would be the right goal to achieve activities, jobs that give higher added value to replace those labour intensive ones that are some under 30,000 today, and we have to weigh those up to 100,000. Austria is ahead of us for more than 100%, and we know that, these are the best countries. And then someone tells me that we're going to achieve the best in some other period, and we know that it's just populism. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Maybe just two interventions. This surplus you're talking about is probably not the first in history. If you look at the budget acts or final accounts, you will find that this has ever happened before. And secondly, it's investing in development, but it's not investing in protests and protestors. Now I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Kristina Stably. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I will not answer for very long, Mr Member, I apologize for perhaps taking too long, but I would like to comment on a few things. On Saturday, when you had this display of deficits and debt, we somehow came up with someone I don't know if it's consent, but that there's no methodology for calculating deficits. Because then we can take any long time, you just focused on these years, but that's not the case. You know, as far as I know, you've been in the economy, even in the economy it is, every year the balance sheets are drawn up. The current deficit shall be determined each year. And in the budget that we are currently looking at, the current deficit is identified, and this is about 2 billion and a half in 2022, so it is estimated. Any summation — then, of course, it is restored each year and then again. The debt foreseen in 2022 will be carried out in accordance with the law on the implementation of the budget, as is the case in this year, where the censorship set out in the law on the implementation of the budget has not yet been achieved. Maybe just a few more numbers, you mentioned NGOs. If we look at the programming structure of the budget for 2022, the policy of culture and civil society, here most NGOs are growing. The adopted budget for 2022 was 240 million; the draft amendment contained 251, in the draft budget for 2023, which will be considered tomorrow, was 265 million, from 2017 to 2020, between 168 million and 187 million. This means that these funds are growing and that they certainly move differently within each segment. Maybe that's all. You mentioned about the army that our companies don't have any of this. About the military, about the weapons, about this industry you can think about what you want, but also in Slovenia we have subcontractors who produce certain things for the military industry. They must be smaller, but they are. And they're also paying into our budget, they're paying into our cash registers and so on. I don't mind, maybe I'm doing a little cartooning, but with that approximation to the European average, you probably didn't have a deficit in mind, but you probably didn't have in mind the debt deficit, because that's still average in terms of the European Union average and the euro area average. One more thing. You mentioned that the recovery plan is not in this budget. It is. 253 million is in here. As you know, the law on the implementation of budgets has already introduced the budget fund with this year's novelty, and the current balance sheet provides for 253 million that will flow through the balance of revenue and expenditure on the budget. It's in here. These funds are primarily intended for projects that will have high added value, projects for digitisation, green content. From this point of view, I do not think there should be any major problems in terms of development. If I may, Dr. Dark's statement about the Wild West has been quoted many times. I think maybe it's a little out of context or not, but I understand it a little differently. Unfortunately, I have to say that if there's a wild west government, it's after hospitals now, in fact, it's like the fronts. We do not have a wild west in public finances, we strictly care that spending is recorded, even for covid expenditure, as it should be. It was also shown in the final accounts for 2020. I agree, it could be even more detailed and we have already approached that, for example, in the 2021 final account, it would be even more detailed because now we have a sense of what you might be most interested in. However, I have also said in the past that if you want to receive this data, as you received data on transfers last year, the Government can provide them at any time. However, we have repeatedly responded to the question of how these funds are spent, on the press, on parliamentary questions. And I'll do it again. At any time after each anti-koronic package, we can give you this information for each article on which any payments were made. That's what I'd have had for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Procedural mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Vice-President, I am calling because today you are constantly abusing the Rules of Procedure and commenting from the chair, giving political comments or your personal disagreement with the speakers. Now you've done this to your colleague Lenart, you've done it to your colleague Hefferle before, and so on. So, you, Mr Vice-President, are abusing your Vice-President or current Chairman for that reason. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u157	Please refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u158	So that they can express their political disagreements. That, Madam Vice President, is unacceptable. I'm going to repeat this and repeat it, even though I know you're nervous, because it can't and can't become normal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u159	My colleague, the provision of the rules of procedure you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u160	Speaking of which, it's also an insult to the State Secretary of Doctors to talk about it being a wild west, it's unacceptable, you know. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u161	Comrade Koprivc, please refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. This is not a debate. It is not a debate, so you have no debate, but you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u162	It's not a debate. Mr Vice-President, I am only warning you that it is unacceptable for you to comment politically on the debaters. And you're well aware of that, but you think you're all-powerful and you can do it with your power position. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u163	He's warning the president. Please, mate, finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u164	It's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u165	I shall hold the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you think that I am not conducting the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please protest in a different way. If you want to be specific here, first tell me which provision of the Rules of Procedure I have violated. Tell me first. And if you have a basis for breaking the rules of procedure, quote her. If you don't have one, then you have a debate. Discussion on business issues is not allowed. I just warned my colleague Lenart that he did not provide accurate data on the budget surplus. You can check that out, everyone. And secondly, I just told him that investments are being financed, not protest stuff out front. Nothing else. And I didn't abuse anything, and that's not a political verdict. Comrade Lenart, do you have a replica, perhaps? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for your comments on my debate. But I have a replica because we didn't get along. I'm sorry, presidents, but since you've also connected yourself, you said you've warned me about the surpluses – there are no surpluses in your budgets, they're just deficits. And the deficits are exactly coordinated, I stressed. Now I'm talking to both of you. They are precisely summarised by your budget documents and the final account in 2020. And the rest, according to documents used by the Fiscal Council. This doesn't fly on you, on the president, because he messed things up. As far as the debt is concerned, I have explained, but I do not know if you have overheared, I have explained that the years 2019 and 2020 are over. And I took the exact data. That is why I have made it very clear that the deficit of 2020 was 3 billion 075 and I am rounding up the debt was 5 billion 688. Now tell me whether that's true or not. The documents are yours. The fiscal world used the same. And I said that in 2020 the debt of 2 billion 613 million was 700 000 and I don't know how much higher than the deficit was. But I understand because I also saw the documents, that you had pre-financing, and then in some document 2021 you've already explained – I don't know, that document might even be from December 2020 and certainly not hold – but I didn't have another one in my hands, I took that. That's why I said I didn't know how it was gonna end. But I took that information. For the years 2022 and 2023, these are the budgets that we are considering, but I only took the deficit. But almost always the debt is higher than the deficit. Did I make myself clear? As far as your comment on Slovenia's indebtedness is concerned, this 80% on GDP, or even now we are already in excess, and then it would fall slightly. Are we aware that in 2013 only 45% of GDP was in debt before bankruptcy? We can't talk like that. It is that the structure of our indebtedness and GDP and the economy, internal debt or external debt, is very different. And we can probably be at a much higher risk than we are now, as well as Italy, which is already at 150% of GDP. That's one. And thirdly, what you said yourself, I strongly support that you report these transfers to us from here. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u167	Dude, time for the replica is up. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to all, honourable Presidents, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members! The situation is far from ridiculous, it's very serious. We have a record high public financial deficit, blown public finances. The latter is, of course, also pointed out by the European Commission, that current expenditure is growing significantly faster and that it is not aligned with revenue, and this poses a very high risk. I agree with the Secretary of State when she said that GDP and GDP share are not the only criteria. Here I would also like to refer to my colleague Lenart, who talks about the added value, for example in Austria, which is twice as high as in Slovenia. This is what is crucial to the ability to repay debt. We must be aware that we have a relationship between the active population and the pensioners 1 to 1.5, in Austria this is 1 to 3. And of course, in Austria, debt is easier to service, and also creditors are easier and more confident that this debt can be paid than we are, and of course we will get a portion of debt, we are talking about 10 billion in two years. It's not a small resource. We know that there were only half of these funds, we're talking about 5 billion for co-vid, and another for all the other things, including the growth in current consumption. We must be aware that current consumption will increase by 34% in 2019. So the expenditure will increase by 34%. This also results in an increase in the deficit of the state budget, and this is a record increase. The traveller is far from being a good one, especially if we think that the Government is predicting the adoption of the long-term care law, which of course we need, but does not want to define the means if it has signed an agreement this year on what is needed – to understand what is needed – to increase wages in care and health care, but does not clearly define where all the funds will be provided. Some of the costs of the increase were passed on to the most vulnerable, i.e. users. This was also confirmed yesterday by the Minister for Social Affairs, a promotion of about 5.6% of the allowance. We are, of course, aware and support that if the Government enters into an agreement with the social partners, it also provides the means, not to transfer them to the final user. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to the SAB to provide at least EUR 37 million to the extent necessary for social institutions. I would also respond to the facts and statements that the Government will give more municipalities and ensure coherent regional development. I would point out that the coalition repeatedly warns that Slovenia is developing unevenly, and I would therefore point out – why did it give each congregation the same promotion? Why is it not targeted for those who are less developed to compensate for this structural deficit? It is only one blindness and hospitality and measures that only increase these differences rather than reduce them. Another issue is investments made in the past. My colleague Furman is not here today, but she praised the fact that this government is investing in the Western Carnivore for example. My colleague Furman would just like to point out that at the time she voted against the budget that allocated money to this investment. Against. We are also talking about a hub in Prague that this government is supposed to drive somehow further. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Simon Zajc, Minister of Environment and Space, is today Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Economy. So who stopped the investments, who opposed them, who took them? Who called the second-track referendums? Who represented the non-existent or invented solutions, thus stalling the necessary infrastructure facilities that provide our country with prosperity? These are all the questions we haven't been able to answer. But if we look a little higher when we look at how he owes himself today, and someone brags, we get a free loan. You know, that's what a junkie says when he gets a free drug. And as long as we get time, he's happy, after he doesn't get it anymore, the abstinence crisis starts to sell assets first, and then when that property runs out, he starts to steal. The state won't steal, but it will cut justice. That's what's going on, and this is what some people are so carefree or you're vehemently advocating that this is one particular achievement, we've got credit. You know, that's sad. We got a loan to eat. For the sake of clarity, I do not mind that we have committed ourselves in a structural sense, so that the covid measures have been implemented. What's the other part of the debt? Where did the other 5 billion go? This is a question that we do not have an answer to, even because the budget balance has not been adopted. I do not agree that the provision of one data, the generation of data on current expenditure arising from the decrees, is a transparent matter. I think we were getting this data last year, but it was completely opaque and unstructured. Practically you can't see where it went, where someone from today to tomorrow spent it. These are the questions we need answers to. We need sound action, we need one responsible policy and we must also be aware that the way it is happening today is very similar to spending in the years 2004 to 2008. Comrade Ferrjan said – otherwise he spoke of 2013 but the money was spent between 2004 and 2008 to various tycoons and privileged ones, i.e. the first-class. We paid for the debt and the question in 2013 and 2014. This needs to be clearly stressed. One river says that history is the mother of learning and that the wise one does not repeat mistakes from the past. I fear that as a country and as a society we are repeating these mistakes and that this will also leave us with a very severe headache. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word, only Bevk is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Who would have thought I'd be so happy to have you here now to hold a meeting, because that was impossible until 7:00. It's just impossible. At least I think I can hold the debate now. First of all, I regret very much that the Minister is not here. We accept very important documents. The budget is one of the main documents. Call it a pre-election budget. I believe it's pre-election, because you've given a whole bunch of amendments and you'll easily secure 46 votes and the thing will go through. The relationship between the minister, the government and the coalition shows that you care little about what the opposition thinks, regardless of all the factions about cooperation. Well, we've already listened to the floss. The minister said we're saving lives. I'm sorry, I get urticaria when I hear "save lives". How many infectious hospitals have you built at this time? How much? How much?Oh, my God! “The government is doing well.” Even with the same accent, you all repeat, all of your local committees, “doing well”. I don't know where they're teaching you all this. “We are building Slovenia”. You had two referendums on the second track, and now you're recruiting and building. How much did you spend on these referenda? Eight million? How much? All this debt is said to be devoted to investment, which means greater added value, so that life for people in the country will be better. For who? For yachts of some who have received exceptional supplements. Let me just remind you that you have inherited a record budget of 250 million surpluses, and today the budget deficit, which is increasing by 879 million, is from 1.6 billion to 2.5 billion. You're sharing. “We give.” You give together, give what our grandchildren will pay, and we must all be aware of it. You don't give anything. You're just borrowing, and we're all gonna pay for this drink together. The net public debt will increase by an additional 832 million annually, from 2 billion to 2.8 billion. In short, “manage works well”. An additional EUR 670 million for the best paid supplements. This is, of course, the uncontrolled growth of the supplements of doctors and officials, those with the highest wages. The Fiscal Council notes that the key reasons for raising the pay-out framework for employees amounted to over 900 million of our total money, which we will be returning. But you share the supplements on your own, unsupervised, you get surgeons who don't operate, orthopedics who work elsewhere, while they stamp here, and the worst paid workers get the lowest supplements. We know the nurses are going to work elsewhere. And here you “save lives” because there are no staff, go take a look. In short, €944 million in allowances and €800 million in tax breaks. Where are you going to take it from? Where are we gonna take it from? In short, bankruptcy awaits us. In addition, note that only an additional 7.5 million budget resources are available for investments in primary health care. With this practical overall burden of financing basic health and pharmacy activities, you are transferring to the shoulders of the municipalities. So much for the development of regions that you have your mouth full again. Due to the incapacity of government administration, countries bear the left share of the burden of the municipality also in the management of the epidemic. At the same time, with this tax reform, which brings about a $800 million drop in income, by 2025 you will have another 400 million hole in municipal budgets, half of the revenue realised being made into the budgets of the municipalities. This not only means an spending reduction in funds to build or rehabilitate health homes, but also the devastation of schools, kindergartens, other pillars of local infrastructure. And now you're going to say that you're investing in the fact that we're all going to live better. Will you really live better? On the other hand, the Government invests in a repressive apparatus, military, police, public order, general security, which will increase by 117 million, from 304 million to 421. In short, the means of repression and escalation of violence against peaceful protestors that Hojs water cannons with a mixture of water and tear gas. The Secretary of State says that we have subcontractors working for the military, and all these billions are going to go terribly back to our budget. Please, I really want to know: will you really live better without health homes, schools, kindergartens, and culture? Now we're coming up with the amendment we tabled in Levica. On the item Promoting Cultural Creativity, €6 million was €446 000 728, and now it's been broken down to €3 million 633 000. In short, non-governmental organizations that are raccoons of this government and you can't stand them at all because you can't see from one tree of the entire forest. You do not know that there are organizations and societies that are very important, especially in the countryside. So, love culture, you don't care about that, and that's not gonna happen anymore, just so you cut some of the NGOs in your nose. Firefighters, mountain, pension, disabled – a-a. Let's get more weapons, armors, water cannons. Very good. We're investing that you'll all live better. I'm asking you nicely. Shame on you. Let me remind you that just before the epidemic, as many as one third of the self-employed in culture lived below the poverty threshold, and today, of course, the situation is catastrophic and is getting worse, we know what the Ministry of Culture we have. We have no cultural strategy in crisis situations, which is extremely sad. We therefore propose that, for at least these 2 million 813 funds from the Police Sub-programme Public Order and General Security of People and Property be transferred to the sub-programme of the Ministry of Culture Art Programmes. For if you want us to live well, then, please, we cannot live without culture, without art, only with weapons, only with water cannons, only with repression and, of course, with yachts of rich people. Of that, believe me, our people will have nothing. Culture, however, is very important to the preservation of the nation, and in particular NGOs, for the conservation of rural areas. I'm afraid I'm running out of time. I'd like to tell you something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word, to prepare himself for the Mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The budget of the State is certainly one of the most important documents prepared and adopted by the Government and the National Assembly. This reflects the policy of each government coalition, which indicates the direction in which the country will go in the next period. Today, however, we are in a very specific situation that is evident through the extremely acute coronary epidemic and the fact that we have a minority coalition and so-called hanging parliament, where the President of the Government and the Finance Minister are shaking each vote. In fact, the minority ruling coalition, held in life by some associated Members of the so-called reserve support coalition under b, has nothing to lose, even though the 2022 balance and the 2023 budget would not have been adopted. The fact is that we already have a budget in place for 2022, but if both documents happen to be adopted by chance, the ruling coalition will have a wide range of pre-election gifts and a full pocket of pre-election candy. After nearly two years of fighting the epidemic, the government increased debt from 65% of GDP to 90%. Moreover, the surplus budget of 2022 has made one of the highest deficits in the European Union. According to Eurostat's official data, according to the first quarter of 2021, we are now fourth in debt growth in the European Union. We have only Cyprus, the Czech Republic and Spain ahead. Out of the nearly 4 billion additional euros spent since this government's appearance, only about half are earmarked to deal with the epidemic, and the other half for the unrelated expenditure epidemic, as the Fiscal Council has repeatedly pointed out. Because our government has said good-bye to some 10 million euros, so with all these numbers, the rifle was thrown into the corn in January 2020, an absurd act. If saving lives, as the Finance Minister has pointed out, is a reason for borrowing, why is it that half of the additional expenditure that has nothing to do with the epidemic? At the same time, it is important to draw attention to the serious constitutional violation that this government has afforded, not for the first time. Although this year's implementation of both revenue and expenditure is significantly above the current state budget, the government has not proposed a budget rebalancing for this year, but has only allowed itself to confirm the change in the budgetary framework and to increase its spending. Thus, EUR 1 million 516 thousand and EUR 901 of the funds already spent remain outside the budget, which constitutes a violation of Article 148 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the total opacity of this year's budget, as the Government will be able to arbitrarily redistribute at least EUR 1.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the amendments I have proposed to the 2022 state budget rebalancing. The first relates to the production of projects and documentation for the start of the construction of the reception and information centre of the Partizan hospital Franja. After a major recovery in 2010, when it was almost completely destroyed three years earlier due to a devastating flood and a devastating wave, unfortunately, the reception and information centre was not built. Thus, the restoration of the monument ended halfway, even though ideas were already being developed. The Municipality of Cerkno last year bought a guest house with sanitary facilities in the parking lot in front of the Partizan hospital Franja for 100,000 euros because it exercised a preliminary right. With this amendment, which I propose of €45 000, we would provide the means to produce projects and documentation for the launch of the necessary reception and information centre in front of a monument bearing the mark of European heritage on the World Heritage List, it is said in front of the Partizan Hospital Franja. The second amendment refers to the new construction of the 4th development axis between Cerkni and Gorenje village with the tunnel under Kladje. A number of projects are implemented in the area of the 4th development axis. The largest are the Želen – Bridge in Soča, between Trebija and Sovodnje. For example, the Gallery Personal Top in the Hall has been completed. Some sections on this very important traffic axis are completely ignored, especially at the section between Cerkni and Gorenje village, where new construction with the tunnel under Kladje is envisaged. But it is part of the 4th developmental axis, in addition to the section between Želen and Lower Idrija, in the most critical and worst condition. With an amendment of €150,000, the project would accelerate, as this section of the road has been placed in space since 2006, when the then transport minister launched an initiative to draw up a State Spatial Plan for the construction of this road. It is said that it has been more than 15 years since this initiative and this decision by the competent transport minister and is still being placed in the room after 16 years. The third amendment relates to the Lower Idrija railway undertaking, which was included as a new investment project years ago in the country's development programme plan, but the start of the part has moved into an indefinite year, after 2025, as stated in the development programme plan, or the timing has not been specified at all. Therefore, I propose an amendment to the budget rebalancing for the next year of €80 000, with a view to speeding up the project and preparing appropriate documentation for the acquisition of the building permit. And another fourth amendment, this refers to budgetary resources for the recovery of mining damage and degraded environment in the city of Idrija. In view of the long-standing mining, it is necessary to protect the direct area above the mercury mine in Idrija and to protect the city from the consequences of the possession and other consequences arising from long-standing mining and reflected in the mining damage and degraded environment in the affected mine area. In view of the past exploitation of mines in closing mines, it is necessary to maintain an adequate urban environment and to protect it from the other consequences of past mining, which are reflected, as it were said, in the mining damage, the degraded environment and also in the health condition of former miners. The Ministry of Economic Development and Mining Technology is no longer directly financed since the destruction of the mine as an enterprise has ceased to operate by an entity directly causing this damage. The last mining damage was thus paid at EUR 254 000 in 2014, and in 2015 the State did not contribute a cent to the maintenance of the raw material of the mine, except for other tasks arising from the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Living Silver Mine Idrija. On 17 May 2017, the destruction of the mercury mine as a company was carried out. Despite the fact that the mine is no longer an economic operator, the mine, with all its infrastructure, trenches, caves, watered and indemnified works, is still an integral part of the Idrija area and has a negative impact on the environment. The centre for the management of the heritage of mercury monitors and, at the time of re-engineering in 2018, points to new phenomena of swimming, slips, warming, hydrological problems and other phenomena that threaten residents and infrastructure. In Idrija, about 6% of all the world's mercury stocks are still in existence. About 37,000 tons of mercury exploded into the environment during the operation of the mine and is also burdening it. There is also a problem of burdened land with mercury, construction waste in actions in a degraded area, as we do not have an official landfill in Slovenia for waste loaded with mercury. It is 480 thousand cubic metres of combustible remains and heifers loaded with mercury, which is about 300 thousand square metres or 15% of the walled surfaces in some parts of Idria and Lower Idria. That is why I propose an amendment of EUR 545 000 on the basis of which the Ministry of Environment and Space will contribute to the rehabilitation of mining damage and the degraded environment in the city of Idria, of course if the amendment is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State. Mag. Kristina Šteblaj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Besides, I wanted to answer Mrs Tomic earlier. I hope she's listening to me somewhere. Nevertheless, there are some indications concerning investments in primary health care. If you look at these budgetary documents, the amounts are a multiple of the amount mentioned by the lady, 374 million for primary health care in the state budget, but it is true that primary health care is, not from now on, but for a very long time, within the competence of the municipalities. The State is co-financed by certain things because it has estimated that it is necessary for the congregations themselves to simply fail to do so. Therefore, the Law on Emergency Investments in Health for the next 10 years has also been adopted and it specifies exactly how much funding is to be spent on any segment. There is also an urgent need for a response, and what has already been said several times is, unfortunately, an overheard response, as far as the possible reduction in income in the total amount is concerned. This does not mean that the congregations will be deprived. Indeed, income is their primary source, but the amount set as an average in the law on the implementation of budgets is the amount on which the amounts belonging to the municipalities are calculated. If the municipalities do not receive sufficient resources from their primary sources, they shall be provided by the State budget. So I would really like to ask that we don't operate on those minuses that aren't actually what they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, get Miha Kordish ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Very well greeted, Secretary of State, all other colleagues and colleagues in the hall! At the outset, I would like to stress in particular that today we have only a change in our lives, because I think that, through the debate, it is forgetting that only the changes in the budget for 2022 and also 2023. At the same time, there is also a comparison with a period that is not comparable to today's period of adoption of budget changes. That is, you make a comparison when you decide to throw a rifle into the corn and dissolve the government and go your separate ways. In fact, this is an incomparable period, despite the fact that you want to show off the surplus you left at the time, with this period that is today. After the government has taken over its mandate, it is incomparable, since the Minister said that the budget reserves were empty and it was necessary to decide quickly what and how will happen in view of the crisis that was coming. Therefore, the deception that we have been listening to can in no way go unnoticed by the fact that it is actually two incomparable periods. Deception and intimidation of the public to follow us, Zuyf, is also unacceptable. More than once, it has been said that Zuif was at the time and the crisis at the time is not comparable to today’s crisis. Even when the deficit and public debt are cited, there is a rewind. The crisis that has fuelled this budget and the composition of this budget has already repeatedly been said to be the crisis brought about by the epidemic, which has marked only individual activities and not all segments of the economy. That is why the budget was originally drawn up in this way, and the other changes that we are considering today are mainly following what has been changed through the epidemic. We don't even know how it's gonna be in the future. In view of the calls made by some to protest, including against vaccination and against respect for the Government's actions, this crisis can actually get even deeper and will have a greater impact on economic recovery, and it will also be longer, which means that this will re-engage in the budget composition. Therefore, at this point, I would like to call on all of us to be united here in order to be able to swim out of this period, which does not appear to be the end, and in fact is also worrying in certain current ones, particularly in terms of non-compliance with the measures. As for the deficit and public debt, the European Commission has announced for 2022 that public debt in Slovenia will be below the average of debt in the European Union and the euro area, which means that what you said before is not true. The European Commission also announced that the country's deficit in 2022 will be reduced to the same level as the average of the European Union, which is 3.8 percentage points, which means that it does not hold back, as has been said so far with regard to deficits and public debt. Of course, the composition of the budget is not based on some false promises, as you want to show someone, but on the indicators given by Umar, that GDP growth in 2022 will be 4.7%. Umar estimates that growth will continue in manufacturing and construction activities and related services over the next two years. The added value in service activities will reach a pre-crisis level mostly by 2023, as I said under the conditions that measures will be respected and intercepted. The growth of international trade, in particular goods, will also continue for 2022 and 2023, and Umar expects an excess of exports over imports and an increase in the balance of foreign exchange. The real growth in private consumption will also continue, with 6% in 2022 and 1.5% of the growth in public consumption in the Umarje autumn forecast in 2022. We also have a forecast that, taking into account Umar's autumn macroeconomic forecasts, the government estimates that revenue will increase, notably income from income, corporate income tax and value added tax and social contributions. In view of what has been said so far, the Government has already drawn up an initial budget based on these funds from the European Union in such a way that it invested in people. Because what you said earlier to whom the government intended not to be intended for people – yes, it is directed directly to people. That is, investments in health care are for people and those who work there. It is for those who need health care and those who are employed to have better working conditions. At the same time, it also allocated additional funds to employees’ salaries. Investments in road infrastructure. Yes, also road infrastructure has been a lot – not for the centre of Slovenia, but also for the surrounding areas, of course for the whole of Slovenia – has not moved much more than necessary and has not moved from a dead point for many years. Much has been invested in protecting the elderly and investing in the homes of the elderly, and this is also for people, for needs. So many years – probably all of you, as well as when we looked at the homes of older citizens, even now at the time of the epidemic and after the epidemic – these are really long-lasting buildings – did not invest in homes, which means that more than it was necessary for them to stay in decent places. In climate change and also in the modernisation of the Slovenian Army, which is so many times a stumbling block, I do not understand why. Would you leave the army barefoot? Would you leave her without the right equipment? Would you leave it with obsolete equipment? You forget people are there too. People are employed, and these are people who are concerned not only with the security of our country, but also to help in a number of times when more involvement of organisations such as the Slovenian Army and the Police is needed. Investment in kindergartens and schools. In this area, too, there was a shortage of applications, as well as successful applications, which means that all of them had the appropriate documentation prepared. And that's for people, for our children. You mentioned the apartment again because you can't go past it. You have highlighted them so many times, but in your own time you have not done anything to move this part from a dead point, which means that this government has also thought about it and has allocated housing funds. The municipalities were constantly turning to the state to lack funds for investments. In view of what has been shown and the lack of income for individual municipalities, if the state did not raise averages and if the Law on Community Financing had not been adopted, a number of investments would have to be stopped here as well. So there are quite a few investments that have gained their place in the budget. All the influences that I have said before call for changes. I hope we can confirm them together. I will certainly support the budget changes for the years 2022 and 2023. However, I would like to point out in the end, because, above all, the LMŠ said that it was unconstitutional in their view that this amendment was unconstitutional: what happened when a decision of the Constitutional Court was adopted and private school funding should be changed and nothing happened for seven years? But that wasn't unconstitutional? You only see the opposition where it seems, even though it has not yet reached the Constitutional Court, but skip what has already been decided in the Constitutional Court. Finally, I would like to call once again to show that we really care about getting the country out of this epidemic and from these times, so that we can return to economic growth, that the lives of our citizens and citizens will be less burdened and that we will all be more free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The word has Miha Kordish, get Susanna Pretty Šimenka ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, chairman. Budget for 2022. The budget of each government, whatever government we already have, is a political priority that will be pursued next year – who the government will work for, how it will work, where our common funds go. In his opening intervention, Minister Šircelj, as Finance Minister and First Defender of the Budget, said that finances in the country were under control and that the budget was under control. Let's take a closer look at what that looks like. Military expenditure entered in the budget is EUR 896 million. €800 million of annual tax leave is largely for the rich. 944 million euros, which go into an unspecified and unreasoned covid reserve, can almost be referred to as the personal allowance and the feud of the government of Janez Janša. Ladies and gentlemen, if these finances are under control, if this budget is under control, then I do not want to know what the budget looks like, which is not under control. All these figures, which I have just mentioned, are working on the drive of borrowing, not solid stable revenue projections from some of my own resources. Unlike some of my colleagues in the opposition benches, I must point out that the debt alone is not a problem at all. At least debt at very low interest rates or even negative interest rates. The problem is on the budget’s spending side, where Janez Janša’s borrowing money is investing and directing it. What kind of investment is this if we direct this loan money to almost 1 billion euros a year to relieve the richest people in this country? What kind of investment is it if we throw money literally through a window for foreign military industrial complexes for armored men we can't even use in our country? And we could go on like this. Let us compare this with vital social subsystems. Poverty has risen again in this year or in the past year, as opposed to trends in recent years, despite the record expenditure that Janez Janša has so much to boast about. However, we do have a social position in the budget then at the Ministry of Labour below EUR 32 million. We're growing in poverty. The basic goods, the food, are being teased. Today, the first point of content was energy poverty, because it goes up the gasoline and the rising prices of fuel oil, we talk about electricity and so on. Winter will be cold, how will people afford it? In the next year's budget, €32 million less on public funds to prevent poverty in social transfers, more poor people in this country. No economic growth can really eliminate poverty. This can only be done by intelligent redistributive policies under which the government intervenes. So he can take the taxes where he is and redirect them to where he isn't. This is the foundation of any country, especially the social state, with which we are so keen to squirm, even in the constitution. But the government's obviously up to it. She'd rather throw money for the armored men, but she'll be squandering again on the poor. Similarly, in contrast to almost billions of tax relief expenses, undefined reserves, purchases of military equipment and the like will soon be agreed on how to raise salaries for healthcare and care workers. This is an area for which I have stood up for myself for years since I came to the National Assembly. I know him firsthand because my mother's a nurse in a nursing home, and I know damn well how hard these people are working to burn them, that they're nurses with broken spines and the like, they're missing them. I cheered up, cheered up as a young child when I read the address in the newspapers to raise the salaries of nurses or health - care workers. Then the small print: the cost of raising these salaries will be passed on to the caregivers and their families, the supply prices in the nursing homes will increase by 5.6%. Yes, thank you very much, but there is always more poverty in the country! This is also an area in which we want to create and show an alternative in Levica. Part of the funds to raise the salaries of staff in health care, nurses and so on are already provided in other sources, leaving 16 million euros a year to be poured into raising the cost of care for the elderly and their families. With our amendment, we also want to provide these 16 million euros from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We take money from items where there's already too much money, and it shouldn't even be, it's from the weapons line. We literally have to face the fundamental dilemma of whether we will use our common funds for foreign military industrial complexes or actually help the most vulnerable, poor elderly and their families. Through this, of course, also to a better working environment, staff, health and care workers. Once again, there are too few of them, they are burned out, but at the same time those who have protected us most from the covida-19 epidemic are exposed to the greatest risks of infection and the side effects of infections, such as increased workload. And this line of context, that we know what we're talking about, the care in the homes of older citizens is already so damn high. The average monthly supply is €680. Less in public homes, more in private homes. Regrettably, another government priority is that public funds will rather be metallic to private corporations that build private homes of older people than their private businesses for private gain, rather than building public homes. Even in the light of this, it is more than reasonable that the increase in the salaries of staff in health and care is fully compensated from public resources, that is to say that this budget amendment of €16 million is adopted and thus burdens the caregivers and their property, while at the same time providing funds to raise the salaries of staff in the homes of older citizens and in health care. EUR 16 million in the context of the billions budget is not much money. Since it's taken from items where weapons are bought, we're basically talking about whether there's going to be any more guns or whether there's going to be any less guns if I caricose a little bit. However, the effects on caregivers and older people in their homes will be quite priceless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor. Christina Stebly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Only one short response to have accurate data on the movement of transfers to individuals and households. In the general part of the budget, this is beautifully visible. What the Member of Parliament said about the reduction applies exclusively to transfers to the unemployed. The reasons have already been given in the introductory presentations, employment is expected to increase, these numbers are already growing and it is therefore estimated that these transfers will no longer be needed at this level. They are still planned at 94 million, almost 95 million, but they are reduced by 52 million in the light of last year's adopted budget for 2022. In common, transfers to individuals and households increase by a good 74 million, from a billion 603 to a billion 678. Maximum increase [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The biggest increase, if I may, is for transfers to ensure social security of 52 million and for other transfers to 66 individuals and then for parental benefits, if I may say so, a good 6 million. These are figures when we look at the comparison of last year's adopted budget for 2022 and these amendments that we have now tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The replica has Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you. Government representative, apparently, I was misunderstood. Already, the government of John Janša boasts of record unemployment. Let's leave where she got this statistics, take their claim as face value, it's said to be taken as real and accurate data. How, then, is it possible to raise the number of people under the risk of poverty, resulting in beneficiaries of social transfers, in the situation of so-called record unemployment? This question is rhetorical, but obviously not enough. Whatever employment growth we have, this does not automatically translate into poverty eradication. However, I was talking about a reduction of €32 million for 2020 under the monetary social assistance item. Money social assistance, by the way, is not used by people who are unemployed in the short term. These people have a compensation for unemployment as a right from work. Money social assistance is given to poor people who have been unable to go to work for longer periods of time, not on their own account, people who are also in distress, not necessarily in exclusively social distress, where long-term poverty, mental pressures and so on have been brewing. Then we have more, 2023, a reduction of another 21 million euros. If we already have record unemployment and we are already growing the number of the poor, this will only increase in the coming years. More resources will be needed on these items, no less. I also say this when ignoring the fact that the calculation of the minimum cost of living, which is the basis for the dose of the amount of social transfers, has not taken place since 2016. In the meantime, life has been strongly stimulated, it goes uphill, it goes upriver, it goes upriver, it goes upriver, it goes upriver, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up 10%, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it goes up, it This calculation of the minimum cost of living must be achieved and then the amount of financial social assistance must also be aligned with the higher costs that people have, so that they can come about through life, which will raise expenses again. You are doing exactly the opposite, 32 million less for social assistance next year and 21 million less for a year later. This is a completely flawed logic and a purely non-life budget, drawn to itself and to the society it is supposed to represent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the government. Mrs. Kristina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Mr Member, you know that a number of anti-Korona packages have already been adopted, which have also been addressed by these groups that you have now highlighted, and through this there has also been a number of increases here on these items that I have been talking about, in these expenditure groups. It was not forgotten about these people, because we are aware that in a time of such crisis, when people had to be on hold or whatever, when they had not had their own fault reduced income, through other content, not through the ones you cited, addressed these problems and ensured and wanted to continue to provide funds for these things. If only the unemployed were exposed, funds were also provided to those who, under existing system legislation, would not otherwise have been entitled to an unemployment allowance, but were nevertheless entitled, irrespective of whether they might not have reached the number of years they should have been employed in order to be able to receive that supplement. This is just one thing, but I want to say that even through the anti-Korona packages of this group, we are aware that there have been many in a significantly worse situation than there would have been if there had been no crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u185	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you. You've got me all wrong again. I'm not talking about past anti-korona packages, I'm talking about what's on the agenda, this is the budget for 2022, this is for next year. Even if I take as pure gold what you just told me, then we have anti-Korona measures and this will be known in the reduced use of social assistance – what did you just tell us? That you have somehow helped people with anti-Korona measures, and then included this in the prices for regular cash social assistance and other public funds. That's how your argument sounds. There's no other argument, at least I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u187	Thank you very much. You want a word? [[Yeah.]] Here you are, Representative of the Magnificent Government. Christina Stebly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you. Member, you know what has been adopted in this house, whether you have given support to these laws or not. All of these things that you have now highlighted, you know, have been specifically addressed, excluded from a number of rules, from public funds payments, and a number of things have been exempt from income. I think we can probably end up here at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u190	However, income classes on the basis of which the exercise of rights from public funds is carried out are not directly related. For starters. Elementary literacy, how our country works. And I'm gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word has Susanna Lepi Šimenka to prepare Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and all those accompanying this meeting. The change in the budget for 2022, which is ahead of us today, is, of course, necessary. This is a budget that has been adopted before the pandemic and needs to be properly adapted to the current health situation and, last but not least, to the economic situation in the country. This year's economic growth is high above the EU average in Slovenia and is projected to be 6.1%, while some other European institutions are forecasting even higher economic growth, around 6.4%. We will also have high economic growth in 2022, forecasting around 4.7% of economic growth. On the one hand, if we have average economic growth, on the other hand, we have a mean unemployment of around 4.6% in Slovenia, which is extremely good, even if we know that the average in the European Union is 7.8%. And yes, even for the coming year, 2022, Slovenia is forecasting even slightly lower unemployment rates, at 4.5%. All of this is, of course, I believe, due to the timely and proper action of the current government. The economy is recovering faster with us, as a result, more private consumption is increasing, exports are growing, imports are growing and we have higher employment, as we say. Not only that, companies face the fact that they actually find it difficult to get some personnel. This is certainly due to the incorrect education system and, last but not least, to the over-taxation of wages and, as a result, to the departure of many, in particular, young people abroad. But also over-taxation of wages has been undertaken by this government and we already have an amendment to the Income Act, which was adopted at first reading, and I believe it will also be adopted in December at the end of the hearing. Why? Because it actually means higher wages for everyone. I repeat, higher wages for everyone. Those with minimum wage will receive about one minimum net salary per year. Those who receive a cross-border net Slovenian salary will receive one average net Slovenian salary in one year. So everyone's gonna make a huge profit out of it. I had just heard colleagues from the Left, whom I am sure will be supported by the Income Act, talking about higher living costs. It is precisely because of the higher cost of living that this law needs to be adopted, because as a result people will have more resources and will be able to cover this difference. If I get back to the budget. Revenues for 2022 are planned at EUR 11.5 billion and are about EUR 460 million higher than originally planned, which is certainly due to higher economic growth in Slovenia. Where does the income increase most? On the basis of income and corporate income tax, about €71 million. There is also higher consumption, as shown by the increase in value added tax for 2022 at an indicative rate of EUR 217 million. When we look at the expenditure, we see that they are adapted to the current state of health in the country and that they are adapted to the investment orientation of the current governments. If we look at those key items that are changing. There is an increase in reserves on the expenditure side of around €672 million, which is of course essential in view of the current situation. We are still in a period of great uncertainty due to the coronary pandemic. Of course, this government does not want what happened to this government to happen when it took over the mandate when the Minister of Finance on the budget reserve item did not seem to have any funds, because the former government of Sharča did not provide these funds. What's still changing. Transfers to individuals and households are increasing by around €74 million. Investments will be allocated almost €2.3 billion in the 2022 budget. For comparison. When we adopted the rebalancing of the 2019 budget under the previous Sharča government, we together spent a little more than €1 billion on investments, which is more than half less. At that time, we heard from the coalition parties at the time how the budget is developed, how good it is, but unfortunately the numbers say otherwise. If any government is developing and preparing an investment-oriented budget, this is certainly a change in the budget ahead of us, as well as the budget for 2023, which we will deal with tomorrow. The budget change, as it is said, brings more investment resources, which are of course key to growth and economic development, which consequently means new jobs, jobs with higher added value, and of course this means a higher quality of life for the people of Slovenia. Those key investments are investments in healthcare that haven't existed in years. Let me point out one, for me personally and for the inhabitants of the Lower Podravje extremely important, emergency center Ptuj. Finally, the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Center will begin. Let me put investment in long-term care into nursing homes. For a year, one home was not built with public funds. The law on long-term care has not even been passed. We had more than a hundred versions, but in the end none came to Parliament. Well, we finally have a long-term supply bill next week. Investments for education. Again, there was no call for a decade where the state would co-finance investment for investments in kindergartens and primary schools. This government did it. The 2022 budget will also provide these additional resources totalling 126 million years, most of which will be provided for 2022. Special importance for rural areas, investments in environmental conservation, climate change. A substantial number of resources are devoted to flood protection, sewerage, water supply, beaches, once more resources than they have been in the past, which is of course of exceptional importance for the Slovenian countryside. Not to mention investment in infrastructure. Transport infrastructure amounts to €1.2 billion. We also devote more resources to the congregations. We raised the average in 2022 to EUR 645 per capita. Let me remind you, three years ago, for 2019, this was €573 per capita. Thus, in the 2022 budget, transfers to municipalities are increasing by 66 million and investment transfers to municipalities by 93 million euros [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u193	Your Honor, I apologize for interrupting. Please, colleagues and colleagues, I know we've been here for 12 hours, but don't disturb the pay phone when it speaks. Please. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You two, when you're going through something. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you, Chairman. This government is aware of the fact that all the resources allocated to the municipalities are rural development, meaning the development of Slovenia, means more investment in municipal infrastructure and consequently higher quality for citizens. If we spent more than €1 billion on interest in 2014, 2015 and 2016, we will spend only about €680 million in 2022. Still too much, but significantly less than we have in the past. This is particularly true of the gross domestic product of 1.4 %; in 2014, this was 2.9% of the gross domestic product. Debt servicing in Slovenia is more than likely to be successful. Finally, we also owe ourselves to a negative interest rate, which of course means that international markets see us as one stable country. Although the change in the budget is primarily an adjustment due to the pandemic, it is true that this change shows the direction of action of this government. And what is crucial – more resources are devoted to people and more resources are devoted to investment, as already said, which means higher economic growth, which means new jobs and which mean better quality of life and prosperity for all of us. I will, of course, support the change in the budget for 2022 because of all the exposure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State! Although the hour is already quite late, we started at 9 a.m., but I think that until now the debate has been very constructive and that as a secretary of state in fact, I will say we have resolved a number of dilemmas that have been raised in these discussions, which is good. We're talking about budgets for 2022 and 2023. At the outset, I listened quite precisely to the initial views of the groups of Members on both budgets. Most of the time, it was said that it was a pre-election budget. Yes, of course, it is a pre-election budget, and what kind of budget is it supposed to be? In about six months, there will be elections and it is clear that this is a pre-election budget, but of course given the time dimension. In addition, this budget, which is most important, is also development-oriented, gives investment – already my colleagues have highlighted many investments that will significantly improve the situation of Slovenes and Slovenes – and is also socially oriented. I'll talk about it later. As it is said, the two budgets that we have ahead of us today are development-oriented. It invests in school infrastructure, invests in kindergartens, invests in nursing homes, builds homes for the elderly, invests in road and transport infrastructure. In short, much is being done in various areas, which have been a number of years, and in particular in the last decade unfortunately, I must say this out loud, fed. These systems have been fed and today they are, thank God, re-investing and it is also important that this improves the quality of people. You've said several times that we owe each other, but there's one big difference between being indebted to us and being indebted to you. We are in charge of projects that mean added value for each Slovenian, and in the past we know what the left government was usually in charge of, let's say, saving the Taiwanese banks, like Probanka and Factor Bank. I know there are a lot of sighs here, but these are facts, and this one needs to be said out loud. We are therefore investing in these two budgets, or we are investing in supported systems, which have been completely forgotten in the last decade in particular. This somehow lays the foundations for better and better development of Slovenia today and, of course, for future generations. Now I should focus more on the budget lines that relate to social issues, given that I am the president of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. I am aware, and those who accompany us must also know, that this budget has arisen in a very difficult situation that is not comparable to any situation so far. No government has ever had a situation like this. In this light, it is also necessary to look at the budget created under these difficult circumstances. The covida-19 epidemic has certainly also had a significant impact on the labour market if I am going this way. In the first months of 2021, economic activity fell. No one denies it, but we also know what the reason is. However, what is most important is that the Government has taken action to ensure that jobs are maintained in the economy, so that we can take care of the most vulnerable groups. In the first half of 2021 alone, we spent more than 1.8 billion euros to deal with the consequences of the epidemic. If we look at the current situation, it is clear that at this point unemployment is the lowest, even if on the other hand you do not want to admit it, but that is a fact, below the limit of 70,000 unemployed. And economic growth is 6.3%, says it is one of the highest economic growth in the European Union. If we look at the budget linked to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we can see that this budget is €1 billion and €900 million for 2022 and €1 billion and €750 million for 2023. It has already been said on the work committee that budgets are smaller. This is true, they are smaller in relation to 2021, but still represent an increase of more than EUR 100 million in 2019. Construction is planned, as well as reconstruction of at least 10 units of home for the elderly, with which we will provide approximately 600 beds. I think this is an extremely important project. We are constantly faced with the fact that the homes are older for lack of spatial capacity. Of course, it is also a lack of specific staff because it is not sufficiently paid, but this year some steps have been taken further in this direction to improve their situation. At the time of the outbreak, an additional EUR 26 million was earmarked for these specific occupations in nursing homes. Some steps have also been taken recently. However, I must say – as my colleagues have already mentioned from their backgrounds – that I am very happy that a new home for older citizens will also be being built in the Ajdovščina. For many years, I have pointed out that the old home of older citizens does not meet the living standards and that if we want to raise the quality of the elderly, then we really need to take care of the environment in which they will feel good and, above all, they will be better or better cared for. So I am very happy that, as in many other parts of Slovenia, Ajdovščina will also be built in this area. For we need to know that in the last 13 years, virtually no home has been built for older citizens. If we look at some other areas, we can see that for the years 2022 and 2023 there is also an increase in funding for scholarships, and this is at an amount, I think, about €10 million. Student food subsidies are increasing, children’s allowances are increasing, and other family benefits and parental benefits are increasing. I think the Secretary of State has talked about this before. In short, these funds are increasing here and are important. Together, 75 million European funds are planned in both budgets, which will be earmarked for health and social protection. So this is about the funds from the Recovery and Resistance Plan. I forgot to say we're also increasing the annual allowance for pensioners. It must therefore be made clear that funds for both budgets are increasing both for social security and for pension protection. If I only make a comparison for the year 2019 for the end, that means more than 25%. I will certainly support the budget changes for the years 2022 and 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Seven panellists reported, with the word mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Despite the late hours, I wanted to make a quick call, in fact more than not to replicate Mrs Lepi Šimenka, when she spoke again a lot about how it would be necessary to regulate wage policy with a change in the income system. Dear Mrs Beautiful Šimenka, of course it does not. These tax changes or changes in the income scale lead to total destruction. This proposal, which is currently in the process, would actually earn 850 million less in the state treasury, in order to ensure that tax exemptions are paid mainly to those who have 3 000 euros and more. Those with low wages are only a few ten euros a year. You know, on the one hand, you are bragging about what kind of budget you accept when, on the other hand, we all see that the deficit is large, too great, that the situation is worrying. True, for the past two years or a year and a half, we are facing a severe health crisis and, in some ways, this budgetary situation is understandable. There are certainly more expenditure than planned, but, look, you've been spending too much, much more money over the last two years than was intended for so-called anticovid measures. Almost half over. If we're talking about 8 billion, we're looking at about 4 billion people. So, the state spending is too much, it's too much of an exaggeration. While you are spending excessively on the one hand, on the other hand you want tax burdens mainly for the richest – I repeat again, for those who have EUR 3 000 and more, for those who will know much, while for the lower layers almost nothing – at the same time, we are jeopardising public education, public health, public services, state resources, which are not enough. This behavior of yours is very irresponsible, especially misleading. Because even in this morning's energy debate, you've talked a lot about how tax policy would make sure that more money is used to relieve the most powerful. It's a completely flawed policy. I repeat, we cannot and must not resolve wage policies with taxes, and above all not demagogically say that you will raise wages for all because you will not. You will turn an even bigger hole into the state treasury, which is urgently needed and, on the other hand, you will give forgiveness to the richest. What I am saying is very important about the budget. Indeed, the deficit is, in fact, even greater than you hope to show, with all these measures, which you do not foresee in the budget in the Treasury. On the other hand, you cannot answer how you will help the poorest who suffer from severe crises due to increased energy and the scourge of energy poverty. So please don't be fooled by the fact that people will get more from the income burdens. The vast majority of people will get less. Because the highest layer will be unloaded, all the public services that Slovenia still overpowers and has them will be threatened. Of course, I won't support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Igor Peček has the word to prepare for Primaj Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! At the end of the presentation, the Minister said that they had decided on a debt policy. He said a lot of other things. I won't say it again. In LMŠ, personally, we never read to the government that when the covida-19 outbreak occurred, we were in debt or in debt. It was logical, understandable and meaningful. In a way, it encouraged us not to say what the European Union's policy somehow forced me to say, I am thinking mainly of the European Commission and the policy of the European Central Bank. The money available was cheap, and all countries were essentially acting in the same and similar way. It's true that this money will still cost us fair and square, but I don't think there was any other solution at that point. However, we have had doubts and questions about the purpose we owe ourselves to, and we are using resources to do so. The fact that we can understand from the budgets, from both budgets, both from the budget 2022 and 2023, will be limited in this part only to the budget for 2022, but that we are not only in charge of anti-korona measures and assistance to the economy, but money is to a large extent also for other purposes. Without much damage, we could buy some eight-wheeler less or no one at all. True, investment in health, economy, infrastructure have multiple effects and direct impact on gross domestic product growth, buying expensive eight-wheelers certainly not. And I'm not in favour of our army having no resources, never said that before. I would also ask whether disproportionate wage supplements directly affect GDP. To a certain extent, it's probably true how we shared them, but it's another question. This reaction has, to be acknowledged, proved to be relatively good economic indicators when we are talking about economic growth and unemployment, and I am afraid that we are a little too blind with both data. All countries are seeing higher economic growth, whether we are above average or below average compared to other countries, I don't think we're that important. The fact is, the debt is growing. It is also true that this positive effect, which will be a little less in the next two years or in the first year, and then a little less in terms of economic growth, is created by a really relatively very high debt. I am also convinced that from this point of view we will also have limited options in the future concerning the implementation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, the implementation of other investments that are prepared and will be necessary for the so-called green or digital transition or digital transformation of society. And I think that the key is that we will be able to find more resources for the transformation of the economy as well. We have already proposed and pointed out, with certain amendments, that cutting resources on the programme of scientific research can also have a negative impact on the segment of the economy. If nothing else, I am asked the basic question whether in 2022 we can spend one third more than we spent in 2019 on regular expenditure without investments. However, the growth of GDP does not in any way follow the growth of expenditure. This is going to be about 10%. Only in concoctions. From the point of view of good governance, anyone might wonder whether such a decision is correct. Or if I make it a little easier, this year we will have more than 4 billion bad results than in 2019 and a similar conclusion applies to 2022 with higher economic growth than we had in 2019. We were at a good 2% back then. He spoke more about this, colleague Jože Lenart, so I will not repeat myself here, I do not intend to steal time to discuss it with my colleagues. The second question is the structural deficit, or Mr Minister has relativised or looked very closely today, and in Gorenjska they would say at the beginning. In four years, after the projections in the budgets and with what we have already created, we will create more than €11 billion in deficits, public debt will rise to close to €40 billion with the 230 billion plus we had in the state budget in 2019 and debt in the amount of €27 billion. It is true that covid has done his part in the economy and society, but in these three years there will be at least 10 billion deficits in the state budget, of which only half for cod measures. Unlike between 5 billion and 10 billion covid, the crisis should not be an excuse. If we look at the deficit that will arise in 2022, it will amount to €2.5 billion. Some of your colleagues were talking about reserves. In budget 2022, we have 1 billion reserves. We do not know why, but if only these reserves, in quotations, “save” or not spend, we do not know what its purpose will be, then the view of the deficit would be completely different. In some ways, the Fiscal Council warned, but I do not take the warnings of the Fiscal Council personally as a dogma, but I take them very seriously. After all, because the Fiscal Council has been set up to warn us to follow the recommendations as far as we can and those that seem meaningful. But as Mr Kkruk, President of the Fiscal Council has pointed out, there is a serious danger that certain measures on the expenditure side of the budget introduced during the crown crisis will become permanent. This means a new structural imbalance. We know that wage growth during this period has been exceptional. I think we're all well aware that once you give something, it's very difficult, I won't say, subtract or at least return to some normal framework, but here it will be necessary. Secondly, the projects initiated and the projects launched, especially those launched, will not be able to be stopped and transformed, even if they have not been focused on priority areas and do not yet bring some added value. The second thing that I think can pose a serious threat to them is the absorption capacity of certain segments or certain activities in the economy. I only hope and wish that in the coming years we will be able to carry out all these projects. The question and dilemma is also whether such high domestic incentives and payments are really needed in situations where we are beyond economic activity. Everyone on the right is saying that we have exceptional economic activity, we are going beyond economic activity before the epidemic, taking into account the Minister's announcement that the deficit should gradually fall below 3% of GDP in the coming years. But I'm going to make another comparison with 2019. With similar economic activities, lower economic activities we had a surplus in 2019. Under different circumstances, that's what he's holding. The dilemma here, too, is how real these high investment plans are, I mentioned economic growth, and another important factor is the absorption of funds from the European Union. In the previous government or in front of the crown, there was a whole bunch of posters about how badly we draw funds from the European Union. Let's see what that means today. There's no difference. There's one more thing I'd like to point out before I finish. Such a high budget expenditure, which I have pointed out a little earlier, is reflected in a great deal of debt in foreign banks. Whether we can look at debt differently, I think it makes a big difference whether you are in charge of your own bank or you are in charge of foreign banks with some common currency. The euro is the total currency of 27 countries. There is absolutely no comparison with the dollar and with the policy of the US Central Bank to some extent. But no matter what, the fact is that the predictions of the institutions that we all accompany, each in their own way, are warned. We are also warned by economists whether we recognize this profession or not or whether it is warnings or not. It will be necessary to return to compliance with fiscal rules as soon as possible. I wish it wasn't so fast, really not so fast. Not in the kind of rigor we've known before. The fact is also what I mentioned earlier – the policy of large central banks suggests that interest rates will change in the future. And I don't believe that we can be able in the coming years, no matter what the Minister assures us and convinces us, whenever he comes to the National Assembly, that Zuyfa won't – a certain tightening of the belt will be necessary. As far as the amendments are concerned, I'll leave now and then I'll call again. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the government. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Perhaps just a few extra numbers to discuss Mr Pecko for a clearer picture. As far as science is concerned, they are not really falling, but, as far as science and the information society are concerned, the budget adopted for 2022 was planned at 283 million last year. With these changes now ahead of you, they are planned to amount to 354 million, and for 2023 this amount will even increase to 409 million. As far as the reserve is concerned. True, the number is the one Mr Pecek reads, of course, because he knows where to look. However, it must be clarified that if we look at the general budget, of course it is 944 million and so on, but there are also budgetary funds, including the Recovery and Resistance Fund. All of these funds are about 450 million, of which 250, I have already said, over 250 only the Recovery and Resistance Plan. But it is true that the so-called permanent reserve is also a relatively high part of natural disasters because we do not know what the situation will be. The past committees have already been alerted to climate change, and of course there should also be a reserve here. While we still have a relatively large reserve for cod, certain measures under anti-Korona laws adopted this year and a half still apply and continue in 2022. Then we need to have these funds somewhere. Unfortunately, given the catastrophic epidemiological picture, we cannot predict all the expenditure that will almost certainly continue to follow in 2022, and it is not possible to look at it now. Just about the debt. If we look only in the general part of the budget at the ratio between the amount of domestic and foreign interest, the ratio is strong in favour of domestic interest. We plan for domestic interest with the revised budget for 2022 to cost a good 619 million while paying foreign interest a good 64 million. These two figures do not depart substantially from the adopted budget for 2022 last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Replica, Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u204	Thank you very much. It's gonna be a very short replica. As was evident from my debate – I hope I was clear – I did not report the reserves, not at all. We know what these reserves are for. I even considered them positive. As for the resources I wanted to stress, I may not have been clear enough. I was thinking mainly about the policy of entrepreneurship and competitiveness. That's where we cut half a million dollars. With the amendment, we wanted to increase these funds precisely because we believe that they can also contribute significantly to the transformation or development of the economy. As far as domestic and foreign interest is concerned, and I have looked at it, it remains the same as before.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u206	Thank you. As far as entrepreneurship policy is concerned. There is something here in the income and expenditure balance, but there is much more in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. That's true. I agree that at this point it is still a little difficult to hunt, but in the third part of the budget, if you go to projects where you have the resources listed, there are either budgetary resources or funds or others, let's say where the municipalities are co-financing, and where the funds are, are water, climate and also a recovery plan. I think it's different from the projects where the recovery plan is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The word Primoz Siter has to prepare himself for the Mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Good evening, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! First of all, there may be only one response to at least one part of what we have heard from members of the government coalition, especially the hot topic of building a home for the elderly. My colleague Eva Irgle talked about this earlier. That the Members of the Government act as such a pianist machine or one of them is almost a Damyanurkian self-glorifying apparatus, we are used mainly by Mr Rebersk. Now I see that this trend is moving elsewhere, but let's operate on the facts. The messenger said that homes are being built — homes are not being built. As long as the government has come to the hottest locations, there are some letters of intent. For example, at a nursing home in Hrastnik, where the ministry signed a plan with the local community to build it, little by little with a fig in its pocket, because they did not say that before they could even get into this project, another law was required to be adopted, which is called the Trbovlje – Hrastnik mine closure law, which is once again heavy 8 million because the previous director of this mine – by the way, a prominent member of the SDS, a supporter of the government, who received his leading award, a service at the SDH summit – will now push here 8 million more. So we don't have a home for older people who are building, which would cost about five million dollars an investment, but we do have a letter of intent, which is difficult 8 million from the law on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, and another 3 million from the previous round of one of the five rounds, says we have an 11 million-million-dollar letter about the intention of building a house. I've been so much about how many homes are being built. Now to the budget. The budget as a document is a reflection of the other policies of any government, any government that makes up the budget. The budget is essentially the translation of all ideas, the intention, and above all the priority, the political priorities of the government, the architects, the budgetary documents, into numbers. If we pull out a common denominator of everything we see in the budgets for 2022 and 2023, we see basically three key points that are worth looking back and criticizing. First of all, it's an expensive waste on weapons, a historic waste on public funds for weapons. The budget documents are linked to the Income Act, which will rewind historical gaps in the budgets in the coming years. And again, historically high supplements for doctors of amphibians that will turn a new hole. It is said that we have three key drill holes in the public treasury, at the expense of some measures that should otherwise be implemented and are particularly necessary during the time of health, social, economic and other crises in which we found ourselves mainly due to epidemics and global movements. So the government's priorities are clear on this point. Tax exemptions from the Income Act will take 800 million a year from the state budget. Gradually there in three years, but 800 million a year. Let me also explain that half of it flows into the state budget, which comes from the source of income, into the budgets of the municipalities. What does that mean in practice? This means in practice the endangered area of kindergartens, social policies, in the field of infrastructure municipalities, pharmacy activities. And since the government in these concrete budgetary documents is so brutally lowering investment in primary health care, now the municipality will have to step into primary health care with half the income from income. On the other hand, the company's top dollar cream will benefit from this 800 million a year. The other thing is investment in the military, about 500 million dollars. Big, I tell him, a jackpot of winning budget documents. Historically, we have never invested so much in weapons. It's not bad for the police here either. It is interesting, however, to compare the budget documents on the items of arms, investment in weapons and on the other hand investments in health care. Government representatives can say, hey, we put more in healthcare than in the previous budget, and that counts. But still, when we throw on the table an investment in health care and investment in weapons, the advantage is for the whole EUR 133 million weapons side. 133 million euros that will not go anywhere but to the arms industry. They will not go to rescue, they will not go to protection, they will go to new boxers and weapons, so that Slovenia, as a competitive military mine on a global map, will be able to destroy it with its big brothers somewhere in the Middle East. So for one Slovenian worker, pensioner or anyone. Let's not talk about non-existent climate policies. Not to mention a culture where the Government halves the entire sum of what is intended for NGOs. Social policy, colleagues and colleagues, is an area of its own. Here, in the area of monetary social assistance, is a new star. It is the government that the funds for financial social assistance in 2022 are down by 32 million and 21 million in 2023 that justify: “Hey, unemployment is declining, economic growth is present.” In short, we no longer have such a problem, and we no longer have so many people in need of financial social assistance. The number of unemployment may count, but what the government in this fast calculation forgets to predict is the current situation where we all face rising living costs. The cost of life is growing, the energy is growing and the growth of the energy sector is making everything grow. Bananas are more expensive because they're more expensive than oil. And there's no calculation in this equation on the government side. We can have fewer people who are unemployed. We can officially say, in the language of the people, less poor, but these are more poor, and this is also a question of how poor are those who have been unemployed so far, and those who have been employed are fast-tracked in some strange forms or in some of those companies that have received a state subsidy from some ambitious CAP without ensuring that they cannot forgive, and now these workers are being asked whether they will or will not happen to them or what will happen to them. In order to remove this spasm with insufficient or insufficiently realistic insight into the actual map of poverty or poverty eradication, we have created an amendment in the Levica Group to eliminate money-related social assistance. This area is intended for the lost – and this is not entirely lost – EUR 40 million, so that, because we are trying to implement the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act in the National Assembly, we can also take into account these changes that we are proposing. However, we propose that the calculation of the cost of living be made more frequently, the current cost calculation dates back to 2015 and 2016, which is the lane. In short, we suggest that this matter be updated to recalculate costs from 1. 1. 2020 and then, on the basis of these calculated costs, establish a minimum wage, set out monetary social assistance, which requires the provision of funds, as proposed by this amendment. This is not a universal solution for the social state in Slovenia, but it is a step that I think could at least alleviate the deeper social difficulties. Of course, it is necessary to say that if anyone asks, where will we get these 40 million euros – we will get them where there are too many of them on the weapons line. And that's in the entire crowd, in the mass of all the resources that move this government in that direction, one such change, 40 million euros. Okay. Before I conclude, when I am in the midst of the amendments, Madam Vice-President, I will touch on one subject that is of the utmost importance. Important because of the literal survival of one congregation of people, I am talking about drinking water in Anhovem. Krajina and the locals of Anhovega, or Kanal Municipality of Soča, have a major problem. Their water is brutally polluted, their water supply is improperly run through Salonit Anhovo, it controls it and the water is intoxicated. In order to ensure water supply in the Municipality of Kanal ob Soča, it is essential to provide a new, independent source of drinking water, which would happen with the provision or connection to the water system of Mrzlek. If I spoke earlier about budget change, EUR 40 million to raise the item on monetary social assistance, we are now talking about coppers, we are talking about 500 000 and 700 000 euros in 2022 and 2023. We are talking about the constitutional right to access drinking water and we are talking about environmental health, we are talking about human health and survival. Currently, a thousand 100 people are being used in Anhove for water supply, as is said to be a waterworks owned by Salonit Anhovo. This draws water from the river Soča, which is inappropriate, the thing has to be switched to the water pump from the water system Frostek, which uses the groundwater. The lens is contaminated in that part, along with the traffic, in short, inappropriate. In particular, it is necessary to stress here how unacceptable, in addition to the environmental and health aspects, how unacceptable it is that the inhabitants of one water supply municipality, i.e. to exercise their constitutional right of access to drinking water, depend on a private water source that the owner can use at any time in essence to blackmail the congregation, blackmail the inhabitants, in order to achieve his or her goal. I am home from Trbovlje, where for many years we have tolerated a cement plant that has become a foreign multinational, and I can only start to list all the bending arms and such and different grips that this multinational, this private society has used to pressure both the state and Arso and the local community and local environmental activists, and I myself have been the target of this. This has to be stopped, this exercise must never happen again, and nowhere else. The right to drinking water is enshrined in the Constitution, so in the opposition we also propose this mini amendment, mine because it is financially so light, but it is of course very important in its communication and it says that the link to the water system of Frost in Anhom is a solution that provides quality drinking water and is technically and time-consumingly possible to realize it in the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you. I may only briefly repeat the answers to the questions raised by Mr Siter, because almost the same questions have been raised before. As for any reduction in income, I repeat. This does not mean a deficit in municipal budgets. It is true that this is the primary source of municipal budgets, but if this resource is too small, the average set out in the law on the implementation of budgets – this is where these costs of municipalities or the revenues they should receive – are calculated from the state budget. The other thing is about primary health. We have adopted a law on investment in health care. This law provides for 200 million investments in primary health during the 10-year period. The Recovery and Resistance Plan also includes investments for this purpose, and I think it makes no sense to repeat all these figures now. However, the fact is that this is basically the burden of local communities does not stem from any current changes. This arrangement has been in our country for a long time, but it is also true that there are now conditions for how the state budget can significantly help local communities to establish a primary health network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Miha Kordish ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u212	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, it's a beautiful evening for me, too! I have listened very carefully to today's debates, especially the coalitions, and of course it is necessary to say at the outset that the budget is an absolute political document, and that what you see as an extraordinary and developmental and social-oriented and investment-oriented, in the opposition, we see as an extraordinary spillover, as an unrealistic increase in expenditure, as an extraordinary increase in the debt of not our children, but our grandchildren, as some truly irrational act that certainly does not have an end, which is actually repeated. This kind of behavior of this government is not new. At the beginning of the epidemic, in 2020, it was in fact one of the first measures to increase the salaries of government secretaries, all under the assumption that it was an extraordinary burden. It was secondary that the government had granted exceptional powers to redistribute budgetary resources without reporting them to the National Assembly, and then we waited for a rebalancing, I think, by September 2020, all these expenditure had already been realized and in fact there was no real debate in the National Assembly, because we were talking about something that was already ad acta, similar to today. Just like today. You, instead of proposing a rebalancing which you should, because revenue has changed dramatically because expenditure has changed dramatically – I think we are talking about even about about the 1.5 billion left out, unexplained and for which you in fact did not have to explain anything today, because you came only with a decision that you just decided to spend more. But you didn't come with a balance, which you should, because of course you should also explain exactly all the changes in income and expenditure. With regard to budget changes, if we touch 2022. At first sight, everything seems nice. It looks like we're sharing the pre-election candy, and it's building, and those who, we're going to say, are going to bend down, they're going to get the prizes. But when you take a closer look, you can see the functioning of this government again in the context of a violation of the Constitution. If you don't bend to your wishes, if you don't obey, then you're being punished. This is some red nothing in the last year. We were able to monitor this at the STA, we can monitor this in NGOs. Today we have listened again to how it was in the past, and millions have been thrown into non-governmental organizations, and now it is investing in homes — yes, it is investing in concrete, yes. Since you did not know in the recovery plan to prepare projects to invest in people, you prepared projects to invest in concrete and various frauds that you would not like. The fact is that even in those parts where this government is so eager to boast, it works to work on investments when you look at realisation, it realizes that you are actually very bad there too. Realisation of investments is achieved, for example, by looking at the current situation, only a good third of the planned. The recovery of European funds is once again extremely poor, expected to be 1.63 billion, realized only 620 million. Nevertheless, you estimate the realisation to 1.2 billion. So, it's all kind of in the clouds, but when you look at the real picture, you see that we're very far from some goals. So if you're not listening, if I say it again, you'll be punished. And so at this moment, we have very much in the hands of the judicial authorities, so justice. I was sitting on the Justice Committee, where a representative of the Council of Justice drew attention to the extraordinary anomalies that were happening to them. He warned that although the financial plan had already been approved, to the Council of Justice, to the Supreme Court, nothing had unilaterally reduced your necessary resources. Emergency funds. Needed — Why? It is necessary because this government is taking an unconstitutional decision, an unconstitutional decision, an unconstitutional decision under the current lane. The Constitutional Court is full of various initiatives on the assessment of constitutionality. In the past year, I think there are at least eight or 10 of them directly related to constitutional decisions. So, you've given them a tremendous amount of work, on the other hand, for years and years we've been hearing about human resources malnutrition by the State's Attorney's Office. So we have an extremely humane diet. The government – because it has done this directly for me – has burdened them with cases, such as decisions on offences that had no legal basis and so on and so forth. As a result, of course, there has been a unilateral reduction in funds. You haven't even had a dialogue with them or informed them, in fact, some themselves have accidentally noticed on the Internet when it was published. This is, of course, unacceptable and unacceptable. This is absolutely contrary to the constitutional decision, which colleague Heferle has also given you today very nicely and has explained to you. However, I will also quote and read a passage from this decision itself, because it seems very important to me to recall, even though we have repeated this several times from the meeting to the meeting, one of the key principles, and this is the principle of the division of power, what this principle really means and why the executive power, despite this immense desire of the legislative and judicial branches, will not absolutely and must not submit. And even if you try to do this through financial exhaustion, these are still so highly moral institutions that because of a few reduced resources, believe me, they will not allow humiliation in the context of submission. Since it is an extremely important key player in democracy, it is the independence of the judiciary in particular. And when a representative of the Judicial Council comes to the Justice Committee and publicly says that it has begun to be said in the courtrooms that the judges are actually being punished by a reduction of funds, because their decisions do not appeal to the current authorities, yes, then all the alarm bells have to ring. They must because if I quote the Constitutional Court's decision, it makes it very clear: “The system of state authority, as established in Slovenia, is based on the principle of the division of power into law, executive and judicial.” “As the Constitutional Court has pointed out in 1994, it is essential for the modern understanding of this principle that the authorities performing the basic functions of the State authorities are relatively independent and independent of other authorities in their functioning, so that none of them can prevail.” So you hear me? The executive authority cannot prevail over the legislative or judicial authorities, irrespective of their exceptional wishes. It can't even be by unilaterally reducing financial resources. Next: “There is a sophisticated system of mutual control, restraint, restraint, ” restraint is such a beautiful word that the government may have to use a little more, “intertwined relationships and balance. [[…]] In the division of state authority into legislative, enforcement and judicial matters, it is not a relationship of superiority or subordination, but rather a relationship between the limitation and cooperation of equivalent branches of authority, of which each operates within its own position and its own competence.” One of the key stakeholders to ensure the independence and independence of the authorities is, of course, financial independence. This is also pointed out by the European institutions, and you are also somehow committed to this through European Union law. Therefore, it is unacceptable to reduce these funds unilaterally, without any dialogue. And even if the Secretary of State denied it today, we read the statements of all stakeholders in the newspaper very well, from the prosecution to the judiciary, how they were directly underfunded, and I believe them. For example, if we quote: "For the first time in the State Prosecutor's Office, we are faced with the situation that with the Ministry of Finance, the financial plan of the State Prosecutors and the State Prosecutor's Council is previously coordinated without any warning or agreement being reduced." You said it wasn't like that today because nothing's changed. It may not have changed, but you've obviously changed without informing anyone. In the Supreme Court, they raise the issue of an increased number of pending cases as a result of reduced workload in the courts in the last two years due to the epidemic. This means an extension of the proceedings. This country has paid a very high price due to long judicial proceedings. I don't know if we can afford a similar situation again. All forces should also aim to reduce judicial proceedings rather than prolong them. All those covid government supplements due to work in emergency situations should be directed elsewhere. It's a court of law. For integrated funds for 2022, a quota of EUR 933 000 518 was set, which was also recorded by the Council of Justice by the deadline set in the budget preparation application, and ultimately insisted on last year's figures of EUR 777 000, irrespective of the difficult situation in which the country was in the pandemic. This is simply unsustainable for the regular functioning of the Council of Justice because they will have to provide funds for the work of the four judges assigned. In short, you've just gone through some one-sided humiliation, and you're still speaking shamelessly here about how it's not like that. Are all those who warn us about it misleading us now? I don't think so. I think they have legitimately pointed out the problems they're going to face. That is why, of course, we have proposed in the opposition an amendment that we would try at least to those who can, because we cannot return everywhere – because you have closed certain articles in such a way that we cannot – at least where we can, nevertheless, follow a constitutional decision and ensure the independence of the fundamental authorities that ensure the principles of the division of power. We are talking about the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, the Constitutional Court. The Council of State also warned you after re-decision that you had intervened in them financially, although you should not have. I would also point out that you must understand that this lack of transparency that you are using again is a source of mistrust for us as well as for the citizens. It's going to happen again on some social transfers. There's talk at the expense of being extremely low in unemployment, but we don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. I'm afraid with all these unrealistic pictures you've presented here today, what will happen next year after the elections. I feel like we're talking about a fairy tale that will end in the worst nightmare when we wake up. If you win, you will somehow solve it, if not, let the new government save it, all in the direction “we wanted to, but you wouldn’t let us.” Of course, I will not support these changes myself, and I expect you to correct them and actually propose a rebalancing, which is exactly what you should do, but not in this way deceiving the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Miha Kordiš, Mr Boštjan Koražija is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Let me immediately, in my debate, perhaps complete or answer the rhetorical question with which colleague Meira Hot of the SD has served. Yeah, the government was supposed to bring a budget rebalancing, but it brought a budget. Why? Because John Janša does not know how to work differently than in a flattened, mental, and over his thumb. At this point of everything we've seen in the last year and a half, I don't know if this government is technically operationally capable of preparing a budget rebalancing in a way that it drinks water. To go from the item to the item, it tells us where things have come true, where they haven't gone and where the funds would have moved. In handling the epidemic, we have seen nothing to communicate with us and show that this basic organisational and political know-how government is overcoming, even though, at the beginning of this mandate, Janez Janša was personally considered a major state strategy capable of handling subsystems, a man who can handle the crisis. What happened? I mean, the last consequence, under the line, is the horrifying picture of infections and the burden of the health system we're looking at. This is the implementation face, which is then also reflected in the budget numbers, and the underlining reason why we have received a de facto new budget rather than a proper balance as we should have received it. For this budget, since the beginning of the discussion, the government-coalition type has called out how incredibly social, developmental, investment, how they are oh and even the best and how we have all remained normal arrangements. Among others, we can then hear some flat-rate arguments as to how the possibilities for the exercise of rights from public funds, such as in the area of scholarships, will be raised. I think that one of the last debates on the right side of Parliament was the one that hit the chest with this, but she forgot to say that the budget lines for scholarships are raised not at the expense of the poor, those children from the poorest families who would get higher scholarships, but at the expense of the fact that the right to social scholarships is also extended to a stronger wealthier family. Under social legislation, as it has been written and has now been translated into budget numbers by the Ministry of Labour, children from families in which each parent will receive EUR 2,000 net salary will also be entitled to scholarships. So, households with 4 000 euros of net income, their children will be financed from budget lines for small-scale scholarships, which are intended for poor students. Wait a minute, it's not a social policy, it's an antisocial policy. You took the poor and gave it to the rich. If anything, this is an argument against this budget, not an argument for the budget. If we walk through other social and social items, as the Government praises, we will find exactly the same results. Everywhere there is such a knead where some seem to be hiding legitimate arguments from redistributing funds rather than the poor. Let's say in response to my previous debate, the government representative somehow managed to link the payment of monetary social assistance to a quasi-social argument, if you look at us, and we are raising the general benefit of income. Yeah, what does that have to do with anything? First of all, the overall relief and the lift you're proposing will be of far greater benefit to those who have the highest wages. We're back in the way of social action. Another time. Many beneficiaries of monetary social assistance do not have any income. How will any general relief help you if you do not receive your wages to benefit from this relief? Please tell me. It's rhetorical, too. You can't do this to me because it just isn't. The black trend of poverty is rising despite all the high billions of expenses. Despite all the praise of the government, how this is a social government, how for everyone something, for no one and a similar story, in the budget, I am returning to the 2022 item, let us see a reduction of €32 million in monetary social assistance and then €21 million in 2023. There is no argument for this reduction, while social circumstances say that these items should be increased. Why? First time. Poverty, or in this particular case, the beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, social recipients – numbers are not directly related to economic growth figures in the country or to the employment rate. Because you have a whole group of people cut off from the labour market who can't get to work, and if they stand up, no matter what economic growth is, no matter how busy jobs are. We need to take care of these people as a community. Not in percentages of GDP, but through the redistributive mechanisms of the country known as the social state. They're looking for financial social assistance. Among them are long - term unemployed, and the short - term unemployed can benefit from unemployment benefits, and so are the poor. Yes, among them we have so-called poor employees, people who go to work, people who work are so poorly paid that they cannot survive from their work. Whether they work in some strange working relationship, it is questionable how legal to receive as low income as they can or cannot reach full employment or whatever. Of course, in the light of all the cost raising in life that we have been facing especially in the last few months, it is necessary to provide resources to help people survive. Is that not the basis of solidarity and the basis of a social state? It is absurd that in a situation where this food is pessimistically irritated, where energy poverty is on the rise, people are not allowed to smoke and so on, then lower the money social assistance line. It's the corny magic budget! In this place, we do not even talk about policies anymore, so what are the priorities to be followed by a single government. Here we're talking about someone taking a piece of paper and putting something on top of it, depending on how he threw the cube. This is how this budget is built, specifically in the case of the cash social assistance item. However, the minimum cost of living will have to be harmonised as a basis, as an anchor on which the amount of financial social assistance is calculated, as well as any other social transfer. Is this conversion covered by this budget? Because the consequences will be much higher, given the impact of life since it was last calculated some five years ago. It's not. You act like everything's normal, everything's okay. We anticipate that employment will increase, that the number of beneficiaries of financial assistance will be reduced in this account, and all other factors will be ignored, including the fact that this level of unemployment that we have at the moment is something that the International Monetary Fund would mark as – of course, this is aboriginal, but still – a natural rate of unemployment. So, here we are if we take your numbers, your statistics that I'm taking a little bit with a reserve, but if I take them as dry gold, what a lot of social spending on a bigger job can't fall. It's not because you have groups of people who are excluded from the job market that we have here, and that's it. In doing so, the same mechanisms, i.e. minimum cost of living, are used not only to calculate monetary social assistance, where you have obviously ignored it, but also for other things, a protective allowance, for example. But then we've been dealing with government cassette-phones for months now, not one, more of them who keep repeating how they've taken care of the pensioners, how great everything is, we haven't seen it in the past, everyone else sitting on their backs and scratching on it, and now finally the homes for the elderly are building. Well, let's start with this claim that homes are being built for the elderly. As far as I know, no one's building a home for the elderly. What two examples have been found in the completion of the construction, but for all others, earlier, Comrade Siter has already highlighted, we have more letters of intent. So what kind of letters of intent are these?Oh, my God! I'll give you a home-made case from my Bishop Loka. We have a well-functioning home for the elderly, and in the former barracks there is also a land for expansion, or for an additional home for older citizens. Is this the land in which the government would invest in the construction of a public home for the elderly? Oh, no, no, no! Škofja Loka is a fairly desirable place to stay, so, of course, normally and logically in their heads, he was executed on a public invitation by an Austrian corporation to build a home there for older citizens and fat, certainly not as profitable as public care, charged to the caregivers and their families. On average, prices in private homes are 20 and 25% more expensive than in public homes. Of course, in a private home, even in a concessional home, you pay the corporation or private company another expense of their investment. In the case of a public home, this is something the country as a social state takes on itself. Yes, it is possible to build such homes for the elderly — not at all, but simply start procedures — if you simply leave a lucrative, profitable activity to a private person, support it with budgetary resources, and then say yes, see, because we care for the elderly. No, no, no. What you have done is that you have opened up a market for a private corporation that will (a) make a fat computer for the caregivers, the elderly, their families and (b) establish a home if we take into account your cobaji legislation on long-term care that will build this home with the support of public funds. Who wouldn't go into this kind of business?Oh, my God! You have a secure market where you can pick up people as much as you want because they really have a need for a bed in the nursing home, and the investment is supported by the budget country. Wow! Which also brings me to the additions from the pensioner's Beijing, so-called solidarity allowances. This is also supposed to be a reflection of how this government is social, if you look at the budget, we also care for the elderly through the PKP and the supplements. To start with: Pensioners' allowances were paid step-by-step and not post-service. Thus, 1 euro in the pension difference knew 50 euros in the supplement. The one who had a higher pension for 1 euro, where there was an individual threshold, knew up to EUR 50 in the allowance he received. Right? Fair? Fair enough? Absolutely not. And yet all of these funds, which have gone and have a social component, which we cannot deny, no matter how technicalally poorly they have been carried out within themselves, unfairly executed, now run into a wall called raising supply prices in the homes of older citizens. 5.6% increase in these prices. This is a reflection that the Government, by political decision, has imposed directly on the poorest pensioners and their families. There is no need for a reasonable increase in the salaries of health and nursing workers to be translated into an increase in the prices of caregivers. None. So we see, all of these pensioners' allowances will be taken under the line at the end of the day by higher care in senior citizens' homes. That doesn't make any sense. Let's let it be unfair, and let it be a political bluff, it's a government without a concept, it's an action without a concept. It is also a conceptless budget because it is based on such measures and takes them into numerical frameworks and intends to continue them. Two amendments trying to reconcile the budget with actual social needs and the actual social situation. The first amendment puts money on the cash social assistance items of €40 million. As it is said, despite the decline in unemployment rates in statistics at least, this has not been translated into poverty reduction. On the contrary, we are once again faced with the rise in the trend of poverty after it has been declining over the last few years. And if we take a lease on how much energy has been particularly irritated lately and the food so far, this means one thing – no less money in the budget, as the Government says, will require more money and more budget comments for social assistance. Second amendment. From the budget, we want to fund a raise in the salaries of nurses and other nursing staff. The item, which is not covered here, is 16 million euros. We want these 16 million euros in Levica not to go to the shoulders of poor pensioners and their families, but to cover the state budget for higher wages in the homes of the elderly. That's why we have it, and that's why we pay taxes in this country. Not to be ruled by Janez Janša Balin, but by Minister Tonin, he plays Private Hlaček and buys armored men. And because you also love armored men very much, and because weapons also have a high priority in this budget, let me finish with the next translation of our amendments. The budget contains EUR 536 million in development programmes at the Ministry of Defence, to the extent that money is to be spent on armoured personnel only in 2026. Just for the sake of interest – because it is a budget debate, not a debate on the Ministry of Defence, so just for the sake of interest – let me say that the cost of armor provided for in Tonin's famous law is less than 130 million euros than what is in the budget. So, more money will be spent on armoured men than was provided for in that special law. A number of different armors are provided for purchase, including eight-wheelers. According to the numbers we have, a single eight-wheel boxer would cost €7.6 million. The government is trying to buy as many as possible and buy them for as much money as possible. As it is said, the amendment mentioned, both for monetary social assistance and for financing the raise of the salaries of nurses and staff in health care, care, I translate it into armoured personnel. To cover the projected costs of monetary social assistance in the budget, we need resources ranging from five to six armoured personnel. So we're going to buy five to six boxers less at the expense of helping the poor in our country, the poor Slovenians. I urge you in the government and coalition, which so likes to bang on the chest when it comes to helping the refugees, rickshaws, let's take care of our own. Here's the argument: let's take care of the poor in this country. Let us take care of those who already have nothing left behind by society, who need financial social assistance, to give each other about a month, instead of throwing this money at foreign military complexes. Slovenian poor people already have nothing, and foreign armed capitalists have very much. At least two or three armoured men can be left on the other side of the Atlantic at the expense of the budget to cover the raising of care in the homes of the elderly as a result of the raising of the salaries of the nursing and healthcare staff, instead of transferring this cost to the shoulders of the caregivers in these homes and families who help them finance their stay in the homes of the elderly. Just five to six shells for normal cash social assistance and only two to three shells to stop people from paying for their home care.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Boštjan Koražija, preparing himself as the last in this round, Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u216	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. When a person listens carefully from ministers, the President of the Government to representatives of the Government, it is in fact the most disturbing thing to do when they explain these budgetary documents, that they are constantly saying: “Expected”, “to build”, “I think it will be”, “in view of that”. It is always “if”, “but”, “possible”. And in fact, budget documents, as has already been said, are unfortunately dry numbers, for which they can be hidden, on many occasions, the very cruel and difficult fates of ordinary citizens and citizens. Given that we are at a time that is very chaotic, chaotic and dynamic, I would expect that when you bring these budget documents, they will really be completed, prepared, not with some version of "we could" or "we will". That's not how it works. Even when a person's basic examination, I'm going to say quite superficially, these budget documents, is the first thing that stabs him in the eye, the feeling that at that time, the worst epidemic or pandemic, we're not fighting the virus, we're fighting the physical enemy. Unless we're even possible, yes, threatened by someone outside. In view of what is bought or which items are included in these budget documents. The main items in these budget documents are the purchases of weapons. Not for the Slovenian Army, but for the purchase of weapons. Let's move on. Previously, it has also been said many times that these items are again reduced in terms of social transfers or support, according to the household, for the unemployed. I have to admit, given that just yesterday or before yesterday, the media has also been informed that around 350 people will be fired in the New Town Revoz, it is a bit bizarre to reduce this item. And given that I have my own personal experience from my environment, says Lower Podravje, where we had quite a problem with the dismissal of workers and the closure of the Safilo factory, again I do not understand why this item is falling. Because as far as I know and talk, people haven't found so many new jobs or jobs. So there's actually no logic or illogical moves in this direction. A very serious problem, and this has been presented several times publicly, we have that unemployment among young people in Lower Podravje is one of the highest in Slovenia. Here, too, I would expect in the budget that you will specify certain solutions, projects that will call this problem to an end. What I am personally very pleased with, and I must also say this, is that all the Members of the Lower Podravja have really fought for this emergency centre or for a block of the emergency centre, which I think will finally be completed at this time or at least in the coming years. In fact, it was already February 14, 2019 that Levica convened the meeting on the subject of completing these emergency centres in Slovenia or in fact this emergency centre in Ptuj. I also personally proposed to the Government, this year on 23 July, to provide the full amount needed to build the emergency centre by redistributing the funds in the budgets. At the same time, I also proposed – because I was personally stabbed in the eye or it was very suspicious that the General Hospital of Ptuj would have to work alone with a financial contribution of around EUR 1 million and EUR 550 000, a million and a half will have to contribute to the completion of this emergency centre – the government and the ministry, in order not to sell these lands, because it will actually have to sell the land around the hospital, which I think will still be very bloody in need. By the government or the ministry, it was a refusal to do so in the scheme. Given that I know that the rest of the emergency centres in Slovenia have been fully financed and completed by the State, this is unacceptable from my point of view or even from the point of view of all the people around us, because it would be right for the whole state to take over this amount or to make the full contribution of this financial part itself. If you don't know, I'll tell the story. What is in this budget is, in fact, like being on two banks. On one bank, it is the rescue of a crisis cod, or how to stop it as soon as possible, or how to help people who have been affected by the cod crisis, and on the other hand, these purchases of weapons, which are not only meaningless at the time, are actually uneconomic. Once again, I'm afraid not only is the budget set on very shaky foundations, but just a little while ago I was thinking about it, and the first thing that came into my head was a song by John Lennon Imagine. Because it's really in a bubble or in some cloud like that that I don't know – and I'm even afraid to say it out loud – whether you believe it's even possible. Because I have you certain people sitting here, for experts, I don't know, I don't think you even believe that it's feasible at the time that's coming, or in everything that's still waiting for us. What else do you want to point out? It would certainly be necessary to devote more resources to health care or hospitals, and this is very important, which is forgotten, even for the primary level of medicine or health homes. It is as if they were forgotten, according to the family doctors, and this basic medical care, as if they were slightly forgotten from the country or deliberately abandoned from the country. This is basically something short on the budget. As a matter of fact, I'm afraid it's impossible. But what I'm going to say is, I'm going to dare myself not to just say "I will" or "I think" or "I expect" and I know that the matter is impossible. At least so little common sense needs to be shown, but there is also a war to be put on, and this budget is simply in the form of – let us now leave this, legal, illegal, unconstitutional, which is also – impossible by numbers and by the various items that are in this budget. Yeah, it sounds very interesting a lot. I'm not going to say good, because if it were good, it would be good for people, but actually many times things are set up to sound good for people, when you look a little bit more closely at the intestines of the budget or these budget documents, and you find that things are actually quite different or that they don't count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I promise that I will finish before 10 a.m. so that the applications can be reopened so that my colleagues and colleagues can apply for the debate. What about after almost seven hours of discussion on the budget? Perhaps the people who follow us and listen to us are now one, now the other, but of course we are talking about numbers that are rightly confused. At least we in the Group of Social Democrats don't have the pierre of reminders that we have to say what some people write to us, and we don't explain the same thing, but we are trying to make a real assessment of some of the things that concern this budget. I believe the coalition needs to talk and find those main themes and imagine how nice everything is and how cool everything is. But the fact is that economic growth is relatively high and unemployment is very low. We can't even say here that these numbers don't hold, but we have to ask ourselves why. Because there's a lot of debt money in the back. The state is simple to come up with these results so that you can explain today how well everything in this country is normally in debt. Why did she do it? I agree that in order to solve the covid crisis, I agree, but let's give you a number here. Today we are talking about covido, unfortunately in Slovenia on our knees despite all the money spent in the last year and half. And what worries me the most, and perhaps all of us are sad and probably a little scared about it? We are the first in the world by the number of covid patients per inhabitant. Our health system has collapsed and is being saved by this moment by our nurses, doctors, volunteers, including the military from today. You're the only one who'll be able to help us. In the meantime, if we listen to ministers about two or three days ago, we can no longer take any action to help them go to the lockdown, to close the economy more, and so on, to try to curb this health problem, because the country will simply go bankrupt. That's what the Minister for the Economy said, and in all this money, in all these beautiful words and in all the stories we've heard today. We made a mistake here somewhere. We counted somewhere. Now I have to say one thing. Why is this happening? We cannot avoid – as some of the SDS colleagues said it was really pre-election – I have the feeling that any minister or any member supporting this coalition would fly past the Ministry of Finance and say, "I need this for the voice I will give, and of course uncontrolled projects will open up." Some ministers cannot even put their helmets down because they go from congregation to congregation, lay various stones, cut tapes, write letters of intent that some may say that they are building in this Slovenia. Some things aren't even being built yet! Some do. But where, if we look at construction, we're overheating for my notions. Given that there is not enough labour, given that raw materials are more expensive every day, we have in some ways made a mistake. Everything else about home, schools and so on, but nothing's built yet. But there are letters of intent, and that's true. And I'm afraid that the next government won't be able to fulfill 20% of what you've promised in the last 14 months or not to speak for two, three months. Then you come up with all this debt money and so on to the idea that you need to change the income scales, to lift up easily with the excuse that people will have more. Now it's very simple. Yeah, everybody's gonna have a few cents more in their pocket. What Mark also said — those with minimum wages paid under payment will have 100 euros per year, those with higher wages will have 500 euros per year, but who will not? It's a budget. But we would like to finance all the investments in this country, we would like to have a lot of social money, we would like to have a lot of money for health care, we would have a lot of money for public education. And since we will not have it, who will end up paying the biggest tax — I hope that this will not work — for such income legislation? The one with the smallest income. Well, that's very simple. You don't have to be a doctor of economics and have Nobel Prizes for economics. I don't understand that. Not to talk about long-term care and so on. Not to mention the amendments that certain MPs who support you are making, and so on, that they are doing various branch schools, which is great, but this is only done for the voice, because you need two more, three months to be in position to do your job, which is what you need to do. The second thing you did. According to the last few data, we need to take into account all the data, make a structural deficit of 7.6% on GDP, and you have made the biggest problems for our country. That's what I'm most afraid of. Instead of engaging in Europe today and discussing how these fiscal rules will in some way soften how we will agree within this country, we will find 60 votes, and we will also try our fiscal rule to move forward, no matter what government comes along, to make it a little easier for us not to have problems, of course we cannot talk about it. Then we'll all be financially smart again, what needs to be done, but it won't be there. [[shows with gesture]] There's a man sitting there, but he'll be there. [[shows with gesture]] Sit down, Minister. One more thing, Vice President. With great respect, Secretary of State, that you are here today, but I do not remember that when we adopt budgets, there would be no ministers, or finance ministers or secretaries of state sitting in the National Assembly. This has not yet been the case, but we Members are talking to each other alone about what would be cool and what would not be cool, but I do not see any ministers, except for you on Saturday and so on, which is normal, since you are the Secretary of State for Finance. This attitude towards the National Assembly, that I am not saying that you somehow took the money away from the National Assembly, but that you should not have taken the money away from the State Council and that you took the money to the Supreme Court and to the Prosecutor's Office and so on. Because the government wants to take care of everything. I believe it's nice now that you come to your constituencies, you'll say, in the budget, but in the line I have a circle, I have a school, I have one, I have everything else, just tell these people that they'll have to pay for it in a few years. On Saturday, however, the Minister made it clear that he was aware that all of this would have to be paid and that it would be necessary — this is also stated in your documents — to adopt a new pension reform, to adopt a new tax, to talk about a real estate tax, and to take other measures that would raise revenues on the one hand and, on the other hand, to reduce expenditure in some way. He made that clear. The only question is which government is going to do it. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats are fortunate that we must always do this. As far as the Income Act is concerned. On the one hand, they boast in the government about how much they gave to the municipalities and, on the other hand, with the Income Act, by which the municipalities owned 54% of this income, they would have taken the money. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, well, I'm gonna say these things so many times, like you said, you have economic growth. That's all there is to it. Economic growth, however, is low unemployment. I'm afraid all the numbers are holding. Only in the end will something else have to come out, but in the end we will have to pay for all these cheap loans that you say are even interest-free and so on, which is also true. All of you, as many of you are still in the Chamber, I ask: if we give you now a million Euros of credit without interest, without anything, and you hope to take it back in five years, a million Euros? Who's hoping to take him? It's not that simple. Because someone would then buy — about what our government is doing — and Maserati would go a little further on to Maldives, but someone might have made a new house and made another facade. I don't see the difference. If we invest because you say we invest, how do we get that money back? I'll finish here. I can't accept such a budget just because there are too many questions for my ideas. However, I welcome those municipalities to those Members who have managed to abuse certain projects for their places over the past few weeks. I hope these projects are completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-16-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u219	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that we have exhausted the list of currently-declared debaters and that we have only a few minutes left until today's debate, I propose that at this point we stop the meeting and open a new round of applications tomorrow. Let me read the announcement that we are breaking item 2 of the agenda and will continue the 27th meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, November 17, 2021, at 9 a.m. Good evening, everyone!
