ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 88th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Please make peace in the hall! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Aljaž Kovacič from 10 a.m. to 13 p.m., mag. Dušan Verbič, Franc Jurša, Mateja Udovč, Nik Prebil from beginning to 13:00 and mag. Marco Pogačnik. I welcome everyone here. May I have your attention, please? We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Personal Accountability in the framework of an emergency. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Bož Zadalič, to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members. The Law on a New Biometric ID card was passed by this esteemed National Assembly in the spring of this year. All the necessary procedures have been put in place so that things can start running normally and start issuing new ID cards within the expected time limit. However, since this new biometric identity card contains a chip where the data is stored, both images and fingerprints, and other necessary data. At the same time, the chip will allow us to use this ID card to sign an electronic signature certificate, which would be very useful for citizens. There has been a minor complication, due to the known situation on the chip market, the supplier cannot ensure that he is able to extract his identity cards in time. As far as I know the chips are coming or are already with the manufacturer, however, that we are on the safe side of the law provides for a proposal to postpone the issue of new identity cards for a period of 3 months. Thus, rather than on 3 January as envisaged, new personal biometric ID cards would be issued on 28 March. During this period, citizens who want to do so can also apply for an old classical ID card as we now use it and will also be valid for as long as envisaged. The one who wants to wait for a new biometric ID card — I will — will wait. My ID card expires in February, but this law foresees that in this interim period all citizens who will be allowed to use an old expired ID card for all the things that apply in the Republic of Slovenia cannot do so abroad, but, however many citizens have other identification documents, for foreign purposes. As it is said, there is no obstacle to raising classically if necessary, and this is used in such a way that nothing will change for citizens. However, there could be a problem if we did not accept this novel, because then after January 3rd, the old ones could no longer apply and we could no longer issue and have 3 months of holes, so I ask you to support this novel for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. On 3 December, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration, at its 58th emergency meeting, considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ID Cards. The representative of the applicant pointed out in his explanation that this would eliminate the legal void that could arise due to delays in the supply of materials and new identity cards due to these delays would not be possible to issue with effect from 3 January, as otherwise envisaged. In view of the fact that this could threaten even the right to freedom of movement, they propose that this period should be extended accordingly. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out in her explanation that they had no comments on the draft law. However, he was explicitly supported by the representative of the Council of State, Mr Rajko Fite. During the debate, opposition Members in particular drew attention to the problem of collecting sensitive biometric data and then processing it and asked what would happen if the deadline was extended. The coalition Members, however, unitedly supported the proposed solution. Finally, in accordance with Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the proposal jointly and adopted them without any amendments. In view of this, we propose that the law be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u5	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u6	Your Honor, good afternoon. Given that, of course, the changes in the Personal Card Act itself are nothing more than an extension of the deadline, but it is extremely unusual, especially unusual, that the months of April, when we adopted this law, of course, they made as many mistakes as possible. First time. I do not recall when any personal document in this country would be carried out by public procurement in accordance with the law. [[Incomprehensible]] We've never done that before. That's what she wanted to do. And of course, when they realized that they had no legal basis, they followed the ordinary procedure. And of course, look at the fragment, the hands are missing. And that's why we have an emergency procedure today, so today we're extending the deadline. Because someone won't admit their mistakes. They say there's a problem with chips on the world market. We didn't know that in April? They say on the committee the following sentence said that they had now agreed with suppliers and that they would be able to deliver within three months and that they would be able to prepare everything necessary for biometric personal documents – but they could not talk in April? We already knew in April that we had a chip problem on the world market for a year. At that time, they couldn't call anyone and make a deal and see what their hands would be? When we adopted the law, they knew that they could agree and, of course, put the right hands on them. It's an incompetence that they don't want and they don't want to admit and they're saying, I'll say, chip problems, supply problems, and I don't know what else. We're not going to object to the law because it's a personal document. But the fact is, let them accept it themselves and answer for their mistakes. And let them exclaim with one that there are serious problems of restricting freedom of movement, because there are other documents on which citizens can walk around. I agree, however, that the normal government would see this coming and, of course, take appropriate action in due time. But we are in an abnormal state and with an abnormal government, we have abnormal procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u8	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a new Law on a ID card which extends the time dimension for the legal basis for the start of the issue of biometric identity cards, which will be carried out by means of electronic identification and a qualified electronic signature certificate, to 28 March 2022. This novelty is necessary because of procurement procedures and the situation on the market for security printers or chips, according to the Government. Let me remind you that the new Law on ID 1.a has been submitted to the legislative procedure 4. 12. 2020, i.e. somehow one year ago, following a reduced procedure and adopted in March 2021. At that time, the government did not detect any warnings from industry from various sectors and areas, such as the automotive industry, the electronics sector and others only due to an epidemic on the market, a significant lack of integrated connections, i.e. chips, chargers, processors, and thus most likely in 2022. Finally, this manco also reflects the production of this biometric personal document, which is not only of an identification nature, but also of a travel document function. Many citizens have decided to wait for a new ID card due to the announcement of the introduction of a biometric ID if the identification documents in Slovenia are still a driving licence and a passport. The latter is not available to all citizens, as it can travel through the European Union countries, all Member States of the European Economic Area, Switzerland, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Northern Macedonia and Albania, and you do not even need a passport. Of course, as long as the travel of a desirable individual remains within this European framework. However, with the fact that biometric identity cards will not be available for some time, many rightly wonder who will reimburse the costs or what will be the cost if they now arrange a new document that will actually be an old identity card and later wish to obtain a document containing the content that the biometric document provides. In fact, the question on the ground is whether the date of the withdrawal is realistic and realistic. Social Democrats did not oppose and support the amendment of the law on identity cards, but we note the commitment or, if you wish, the promise of the Government, residents and residents of Slovenia that a biometric identity card of the holder of electronic identification means and a qualified certificate of electronic signature will be available on 28 March 2022. We will not oppose the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! As of 3 January 2022, the last amendment to the Law on Personal Card, adopted in March 2021, should apply. This novel introduced biometric identity cards, which also serve as a digital certificate and health insurance card. The start of the issuance of new identity cards should therefore start in a bad month. But apparently due to the inability to provide raw materials and chips in time, we will move it today to the end of March 2022. As we may have learned from the committee itself, this delay will probably be too short and we will most likely have to amend the law again. We see no problems in Levica with the delay, especially because we are opposed to the introduction of a biometric card ourselves, not because we are opposed to technological progress and digitisation, but because the collection of biometric data is introduced without any particular consideration. The fact is that the desire to collect biometric data is growing. The latest idea of illicit collection of biometric data was aroused by the public in September when police revealed their appetites after collecting and processing these sensitive data. In the case of the police, this area is particularly worrying, especially if the envisaged solutions are read together with broad powers to collect biometric data, with unlimited control over public areas, with the general authority that the police can access records, etc. We certainly hope that these changes in police legislation will not even reach our tables. We also did not support the introduction of biometric identity cards in Levica, as there were several open issues left at the time of the March law hearing, and the concerns raised by the civil and professional public at the time of the introduction and then by the Legal and Legislative Service were not fully resolved by the Coalition Members. The idea that we will have one personal document, which will also serve as a medical card and a digital certificate, certainly sounds nice, but the extent and sensitivity of the data that will be collected and processed for this purpose certainly requires serious thought and safeguards against any abuse. After all, it is a mass collection of fingerprints of all over 12 years of age, and therefore these changes should be addressed with particular care. We are therefore not at all opposed to the solutions brought by technological and information development in Levika, but we are convinced that such solutions must be put in place thoughtfully, thoughtfully and through the provision of more permissible safeguards for the protection of an individual. We know that multinationals and capital are trying to access as much information as possible about each of us, and that is why we should make every effort to prevent them from doing so effectively. On the basis of all the above, we will not oppose the proposal in Levica to suspend the issuance of biometric identity cards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u12	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed choir! Digitalization changes everything. It fundamentally changes the image of the economy, politics and society. The digital revolution brings new challenges and opens up new opportunities. Digitalisation enters all times of life, sets new demands and opens up completely new opportunities and opportunities. Our goal and goal of the newly established service of the Government for digital transformation is that Slovenia is on the side of the winners of the digital revolution and to take advantage of its opportunities for development breakthrough. Today we need just one business idea to make a powerful [[?]] Change the entire economic sector. Opportunities for new technologies, new products and new markets are growing immeasurably and, on the other hand, the invisible enemy has shown weaknesses and weaknesses in logistics routes and thus lack of components for the final product. On the one hand, we monitor the development of artificial intelligence, such as a humanoid robot and the development of 6G technology, and on the other hand, we face the inability to supply simple gaming consuls, such as PlayStation 5. Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic has drawn the right path for Slovenia to catch up with the most advanced countries in the field of digitisation, which will contribute to greater competitiveness and economic development. As biometric identity cards require chips, which are difficult to deliver in the current semiconductor crisis, the period during which identity cards are issued is subsequently extended beyond the existing forms and at the same time prolongs the possibility of using past identity cards without changed personal data. But anyone who needs a new ID card because of the necessity of reasons; travel abroad, change of address, residence and so on, of course he can get a new ID card. [[?]] Uninterrupted by the existing system. In Novi Slovenija we will support a bill proposing a later application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Card. Christian Democrats agree with the later entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Identity Card on 28 March 2022, since otherwise there would be difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. We are aware that the constitutional right to freedom of movement of citizens would also be compromised, as the ID card has a travel function in addition to its identification function. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u14	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The Law on ID Card, which lays out the legal basis for the initiation of the issue of biometric identity cards following the model of the passport arrangements, was adopted in March this year in the National Assembly and should be applied in a bad month, i.e. on 3 January 2022. At the beginning of this year, we warned the SAB that the lower age limit for the distribution of electronic identity is, in our opinion, somewhat too low. Biometric cards will be issued to children up to the age of 12, although a more meaningful age could be linked to the acquisition of business skills, which means 15 years. In accordance with the proposed amendment, the launch of the issue of biometric cards will be suspended on 28 March next year. Otherwise, identity cards which will be valid in the meantime will still be available for identification purposes in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. But the problem may arise when crossing the state border. Some citizens do not have passports and do not need passports. In addition, the production of a passport represents a higher cost than the production of a identity card. One reason for the delay is the extension of the deadlines for the supply of protective elements for the production of forms, resulting from the pandemic. As a second reason, the applicants state a lack of chips. This is a problem with which the world industry has been facing for more than a year, so these circumstances already existed at the time of the adoption of the law in question. At the time of the adoption of the law, the Government found that orders for the production of biometric cards could not be carried out under the Law on Public Procurement in the field of Defence and Security as originally planned. Such a procedure would allow for faster implementation, so they were forced to carry out a public contract following a competitive negotiated procedure, which, of course, results in a longer procedure. In addition, in the SAB we are surprised that government representatives have found this just before the initial planned start of the issue of biometric identity cards. In the SAB, we would like to see the government's more organised and systematic functioning in preparing for the start of the issue of biometric identity cards, but we will not oppose the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! By means of personal documents, individuals show their identity and citizenship. The valid personal documents proving the identity or identity of an individual in the Republic of Slovenia shall be accompanied by a photograph issued by a national authority. Personal ID card is the most widely distributed personal document. On 3 March this year, we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Card, which, inter alia, laid down the legal basis for the launch of biometric identity cards, which will contain as soon as possible the biometric data of the facial image and the two fingerprints which will be completed after 12 years of age. The new regime has been in force since April and is expected to apply after 9 months, i.e. on 3 January next year following a previous public contract. The procedure for the execution of a public procurement contract under the Law on Public Procurement in the field of defence and security has proved to be inadequate. However, the public procurement for the production, design and personalisation of identity cards under the open procedure was not awarded a high offer price. Only a third of the different forms of public procurement resulted in the award of a contract under a competitive procedure. As a limiting factor for the timely execution of the transaction, however, the situation on the security printing market which has an impact on the extension of the delivery deadlines of the necessary materials has also been highlighted. New identity cards will not be issued on a scheduled date, but, at the same time, it would not be possible to issue identity cards on existing forms from 3 January onward. The proposed law is therefore moving forward with the application of the new regime on 28 March next year. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill in the hope that an extension of 84 days will be sufficient to regulate everything necessary in the current circumstances to begin the issue of new ID cards. During the period from 29 March last year until the end of October, more than 105 000 ID cards have expired and have not yet been replaced with new ones. In the first three months of the following year, some more than 82 thousand identity cards will expire. However, regardless of this data, there is an increased fear that citizens will have difficulties at the local time either in demonstrating their identity in the Republic of Slovenia or in crossing the national border. The proposed extension does not affect the right of citizens to obtain a new ID card, as it is being extended during the period during which the identity cards are issued on existing forms, while also prolonging the possibility of using the expired identity cards without changing personal data in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to this, it should be pointed out that the identity card is not the only document either for showing identity within the country or for crossing borders so that citizens and citizens do not have problems. The proposed law is therefore merely moving forward with the application of the already adopted regime for issuing new biometric cards, which is why we will support it in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u18	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present. By means of a personal identity card, natural persons may also travel to certain foreign countries with their identity and nationality. Now I strongly recommend that you are as many at home as possible in your family, your loved ones and travel as little as possible for health reasons. Spring for our citizens and citizens finally comes into force an electronic identity card that brings digitisation of individual identification. The bill is intended to apply at the beginning of the following year. Unfortunately, this will not be possible, because of the chaotic conditions on the world market caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and which also makes us Slovenians a daily destiny. This is not to give up because our Slovenian nation has been patient and throughout history. [[Incomprehensible]] Consequently, the deadlines for the supply of materials necessary for the production of new biometric identity cards have been extended. On the forms of identity cards, chips will also be crucial, because we are bound to abroad as we are to many things, which we are now waiting for after several months. It is a necessary fact that the proposed amendment of the bill or the extension of the issuance of new identity cards would not have taken place if they had not been so deeply anchored in the health, economic and social crisis. Everything is intertwined and goes hand in hand, so it is necessary to understand on all sides in order to once again dig out of these burning crises. In the Slovenian National Party, we are confident that the Slovenians will take a new type of ID card, which will contain several new safety features among other biometric data of two fingerprints in older than 12 years of age, a facial image, a Q-code and additional elements for modern e-commerce. Let us remind you in the Slovenian National Party that the Q-code has already been used by most citizens to pay the bills, read the menu in the inn and more. Many citizens will be happy, as it will also be possible to connect with the health insurance card. We are also pleased that the selected company Cetis will produce ID cards with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already signed the contract. The price of the ID card will be around €30, which is less than the price of the passport, which is €46. We looked back a little bit and found that the renewal of the ID card in the context of the COVID-19 epidemic for a wide range of Slovenians had been severely hampered, in particular as regards access to administrative units. In the Slovenian National Party, it seems very important that the law has no harmful consequences by extending its application. Most importantly, we think that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will not be deprived of this, only to obtain a new ID card, which some are looking forward to. This is about upgrading the current ID card, all in the light of our better and safer future for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u20	Dearly beloved, everyone has a very nice greeting on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The law before us today brings nothing more than an extension of the deadline for the introduction of new biometric identity cards. The delay is approximately 3 months and is, of course, caused by problems with supply chains. In particular in chips, this is something that plagues, for example, the entire automotive industry around the world, especially in Europe, and does not concern only Slovenia. To say that this is any fault of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as one of the Members had previously explained in a pretentious way, is obviously nonsense and incorrectness. It is a problem caused by the consequences of the crisis caused by the pandemic or the pandemic in this part acted essentially as a catalyst. In part, it may also be blackmailing one of the countries where these factories are now located, but such a framework of this debate would already go beyond what we are dealing with today. In any event, it should be stressed: this is not the fault of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The government acted well and followed modern trends when it proposed a new card. This card will also be compatible with some others, for example with a health certificate, so that things can be simplified, simplified, cheaper and, of course, approximated for use by ordinary citizens. This should be the goal of any government that deserves all praise and recognition for this at this time. And the SDS will be unitedly supported by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the bill will be made today half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal for the Long-Term Damage Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Prime Minister Alenka Forta, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u22	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Today you will decide on the Long-Term Care Act. This is the law that we urgently need in Slovenia. It is needed by citizens who, due to disease, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity in satisfying basic and supportive daily tasks, are no longer able to take care of themselves on their own. It is also needed by a number of family members, informal care providers, employees working in the field of long-term care. It is needed by all generations of our citizens, as the absence of adequate systemic solutions in the area of long-term care often represents both an implementation and financial burden for the wider family. Existing solutions in the area of care for the elderly are mainly aimed at providing institutional care and therefore no longer adequately respond to the needs of users and do not have adequate solutions for the population up to 65 years old, particularly those in need of more assistance and continuous healthcare and care. You have before you the Proposal for a Long-term Care Act that brings solutions designed in decades of work and search for systemic solutions that would allow long-term care to be available to all who need it under equal conditions and in all environments and in a process in which the user will be an active partner. That quality will focus on strengthening and maintaining the individual’s independence and promoting his or her most active role in private and social life. The adoption of the Proposition of the Long-term Care Act will be possible to create the conditions for long-term care in the Republic of Slovenia to be uniformly regulated so that citizens with comparable needs can access comparable rights. Options for selecting beneficiaries who may benefit from the right to long-term care in the form of formal care at home or formal care in an institution or in cash receipt or provider of a family member. For access to integrated treatment, both in the institution and at home, for access to new services, including services for strengthening and maintaining the autonomy and services of e-services and for providing a higher share of public resources for long-term care provided for the first two years from budgetary resources, in 2025, when long-term care is already provided in all forms and in all environments, a specific law on compulsory insurance for long-term care shall be applied. After us is a good month of legislative procedure, which has drawn attention to the diversity of views, opinions and views on how to regulate the area of long-term care. The fact is that despite possible different views on long-term care, it is a common goal for an individual who, for various reasons, is no longer able to take care of himself on his own. The legislative process has allowed the proposed solutions to be complemented and designed in a way that makes them easier to implement and the system represents as little administrative burden as possible for all stakeholders. Following the amendments adopted so far, there has been a greater clarity of individual provisions, the elimination of technical inconsistencies, a better detailed record of long-term care services, a longer transitional period for the exercise of rights and thus a longer time window for the urgent adjustment of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to carry out long-term care tasks. I know it's only the beginning of the law, but that's not what we're afraid of, because we know we're building better tomorrow for all of us. I thank you for your constructive debate and ask you for your support for the Long-Term Care Act. For the better tomorrow all those who need long - term care now and for the better tomorrow of all of us, which we will need more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the debates on the bill we have heard many times from the various debaters how long we have been waiting for the arrangements of the long-term care system. We have been waiting almost 20 years for a marriage we should have adopted yesterday. Even after the adoption of this bill, which the ruling coalition is so pleased to present as a comprehensive and best-ordered system of long-term care, we will continue to wait. Above all, we will have to wait for the answer to a key question, which is why all the attempts to regulate long-term care have also stopped us from financing long-term care rights and services. The government has only presented a temporary model of funding for which there is no real reason. The Democratic Opposition Club was unable to explain why they would introduce a system of financing in the form of compulsory social security for long-term care only in 2025. Moreover, to our insistence, let them at least give little indication of what this compulsory social security would look like, according to their ideas, we have come across a total eclipse with government representatives. We believe that, today and not in 2025, we should regulate a system-wide source of funding that will be solidarity and fair for all insurers, where everyone will contribute according to his or her capabilities and have the right to equal services regardless of the amount of his or her income or property. We are concerned that in the end most of the costs of services from long-term care will simply be passed on to the shoulders of users and their owners. We will also have to wait until we know definitively what services and to what extent they belong to an individual user in a long-term care system. Despite the fact that the amendment to Article 14 has been at least a little more detailed by the Government to define the services of long-term care that will be available to users, but still not sufficiently clear, we can only guess how the services will be definitively defined in the rules to be drawn up by the Minister. In an article of the law, which should be clear and comprehensible to each individual, the word “in particular” is used in determining services, indicating that the rights of long-term care, however, will not be fully defined by law, but by the rule. This is unacceptable and unconstitutional for us Social Democrats, as rights should be acquired on the basis of the contribution paid from compulsory social insurance clearly and definitively established by law. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We still do not believe that even the complementary proposal of the law represents a comprehensive and integrated long-term care that would provide for both the health and the social and psychological needs of the elderly. The social democrats of such an unfinished and deficient law, which merely promises to solve problems in the future or in the rules, cannot be supported. The adoption of this law is also opposed by all key stakeholders, including representative associations of municipalities, civil organisations representing the interests of the elderly and the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia. The Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, however, is deeply concerned about how they will be able to implement such a material and financially deficient long-term care law in the first place. Please note, however, that from January 2022 compulsory health insurance providers will have to pay for compulsory health insurance for the family member, the spouse and the parent who is insured through them, while these people are currently insured through the institution's contribution and do not represent an additional cost. The ruling coalition has once again transformed the National Assembly into a propaganda and voting machine, where it is no longer important and necessary after the long-term care of one of the most vulnerable groups. It is only important that the law be adopted to satisfy the short-term political interests of the current government. [[sign for the end of the debate]] This government may indeed be working, but this bill makes only one big mistake, as they are literally blackmailing the adoption of an inefficient, weak and in practice difficult to enforce law on long-term care. Unfortunately, the negative consequences of this poorly prepared law will be borne by users and their relatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u26	Thanks for the words. Good afternoon. Long-term care is something you as a society can and we have to afford. Not only because of obvious demographic changes, but because we as a society are responsible for all its members. It is therefore important that long-term care is financed in solidarity, i.e. through contributions which are proportionally burdened by income, and where capital, i.e. employers, also contribute their share. It is important that, in the event that long-term care cannot be fully covered by contributions, the provision is co-financed by the State budget, as for example it does for the pension fund. It is important that the provision of long-term care is part of a public service where there are standards where there are clear standards, where there is no outsourcing of services, and where there is no collapse of the price of labour where there is no exaggeration and where there is no wealth at the expense of cheap labour and lowering of supply standards where there is no superstandard service for the privileged is more profitable. It is important that, at the level of users, long-term care is universally accessible, that services are at the same level and that full equality between users is ensured. So, equal availability, equal accessibility, equal availability and equal quality of services for all. The proposed Long-Term Supply Act represents the diametric opposite of what we need today in the area of long-term care. Systemically and permanently, it does not regulate the financing of long-term care, but it places it on another, now non-existent law. Implementation is left to market players, which means tightening competition, entering foreign multinationals, lowering standards and quality of supply. The law provides for the exaggeration of the labour force in the field of supply and additional "especisation". Such a law can only make the situation of the elderly, other long-term care needed and long-term care workers worse. With unions and professionals in the traditional manner of the government of Janez Janša, of course, it was not coordinated and the law does not have regulated funding. A long-term supply bill is an inn-free bill. The area of care is pressed in the market corner and the survival of employees and caregivers is put to the test. In addition, with what they themselves say, in the notes, alternative implementation of long-term care, the government is now winning the new summit of the anti-social state. They hide their inability to provide quality and affordable long-term care services, hiding behind the winged that people want to stay in their home environment anyway. The claim holds, but what if the government outside the PR doesn't take it into account? The law will live in the flesh like this: Even if an old man wants to go to a home, there is no room for him not to worry about it. With the law, the government will compensate him for its inability to do so with a petty and volunteer. Probably poor pensioners, too. Thank you for such an alternative. The law on long-term care in its confusion and inadequacy every day serves a new inter-class discovery. In small print, for example, the Health Insurance Office, the contractor of this law, discovered a new inadmissibility days ago. The newly discovered rudeness of the Government provides that compulsory health insurance providers will have to pay a contribution to compulsory health insurance for a family member, spouse or parent who is insured through them. More than 65,000 people, who currently have their own insurance coverage for their neighbors, will be paying poor 28 euros in insurance from now on. Explain what the additional mandatory cost means for a material and financial weakness of the household. In Levika, we have drafted an amendment to this government injustice, which deletes this harmful measure. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Until long-term legal proposals reflect social solidarity, they will not reflect collective responsibility towards everyone and everyone, regardless of their or their position, we will oppose them in Levica. Until the law actually helps users, provide at least one extra safe job, offer at least one bed at home or anywhere, we will oppose it. So, this time, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u28	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Long-term care needs are increasing and changing according to the needs of the time we live in. If once large families who cared for the elderly, the sick, or the disabled, today we are faced with changes and lifestyles, families have begun to change, even as a result of jobs, activities, and urban life. Slovenia has been far behind and lagging behind the rest of the European countries in the area of long-term care, as there is still no single law to systematically regulate this area. We have it in front of us today. Long-term care is the area most frequently attended by elderly, rarer children, and middle-life people. Long - term care services are needed by people because of age, physical or mental illness, and disability, they are not able to perform basic and supportive daily activities in a longer period of time. In the case of older people, there is a great desire to take care of them at home. We Slovenians are known to be attached to our property or home, and we find it difficult to accept changing the environment especially in the elderly. In some cases, home is a better environment for the care of the elderly, since it is a place of emotional and physical association, memories and comfort, and leaving institutional protection can cause depressed feelings and distress for the elderly and for the rest of the families. Home care allows the family to be together during illness. According to statistics from the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, in Slovenia the proportion of people over 65 years of age or over was 19.7%. This share was already 20.2% in January 2020. The 2050 projection, which was designed to raise the share to 30%, will also increase the countries over 80 years of age from 5 percentage points in 2016 to 11.4% in 2050, says Slovenia is a very fast growing society. In 2017, 64,433 people benefited from services and cash supplements for long-term care, of which about 35,5 % benefited around 22,900 from monetary allowances for services in institutions. The proportion of people who benefited from long - term care at home was 34.9%, or about 22,500. They also noted that some 18,500 people are expected to benefit from cash supplements for various long-term care services, and that the real part of long-term care is already being carried out. Some data also show that assistance in the supply of functional restrictions requires more than 2 out of 5 people over 65 years of age. The way long-term care is financed varies across the European Union, which means that long-term care can be part of health and social systems. In Slovenia and some other European countries, long-term supply is financed through public resources. Optional or voluntary insurance, compulsory social insurance and private resources in other European countries are offered in order to finance long-term care by providing financial compensation or coupons to pay for formal or informal care. At the time of the epidemic, we could feel that when we limit contact and socialization, the elderly are further exposed to loneliness. With the help of information technology, loneliness could be less present, as older ones would hear their relatives on the phone instead of visiting. Changes and forms of long-term care will be introduced gradually, no one will fail, everything will be taken care of. Members of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats will be supported by the proposal for a long-term care law because it brings the most urgent care to all the necessary assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present. So the third consideration of the Proposition of the Long-Term Care Act is before us. To begin with, let us re-emphasize the statement by the Minister of Health, who said that the absence of the Long-Term Care Act means loss for those who need long-term care services and are generally the most vulnerable. We have taken a constructive approach to the consideration of the law, so we have tried to improve the content that is ahead of us by complementing it. We need long-term care. The weaknesses of the current institutional care of the elderly have recently been demonstrated during the Covid-19 epidemic, but we also know that in Slovenia it is not satisfactory to provide for those who, due to the age of mental or physical injury, need the help of others because there is no equal or comparable treatment of individuals with regard to access to services. Long-term care, as proposed by law, is conceived as a set of services and activities aimed at persons who, due to the consequences of illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity over a longer period of time, are not less than three months or who are permanently dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks. The law on long - term care brings many good solutions. The types of long-term care services are classified in several categories: support for basic and supporting daily tasks, health care related to basic daily tasks, services for strengthening and maintaining autonomy and e-services. As we have already said, the purpose of such a range of services is to enable individuals to stay as long as possible in their home environment and do not need to be institutionalised. However, if institutional care proves to be the only appropriate and necessary one can choose between other means of carrying out long-term care, this is between residential units, care or nursing homes, depending on the proportion of users and caregivers in need of assistance for their own lives and how much health care they need. However, the way to provide long - term care will be open for each one to choose for himself. The law does not impose restrictions on the inclusion in long-term care in institutions but releases the current arrangements for institutional protection of the elderly. In the lower groups of eligibility for long-term care, it is therefore encouraged to receive integrated services at home in the circle of its social network. We welcome the proposaler's efforts to address one of the current shortcomings by seeking to unify the criteria for identifying needs or self-sustainment because of the unification of the procedures for determining the eligibility of individual rights in the area of long-term care. We have tabled additions to the draft law by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. One of the more important is the supplement that allows you to make from 1. 12. 2021 We provide support to social protection providers of the institutional protection of adults for the co-financing of additional labour costs resulting from the rise in the salaries of social workers of the recently signed annex to the collective agreement on activity, health and social protection. In doing so, we want to prevent the transfer of this financial burden to the suppliers and their properties. We will also support the proposal of the Long-Term Care Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Parties this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have a law ahead of us that we've been waiting for for a number of years. In the SAB party, we wanted to participate very actively in the adoption of this law. And in the beginning, we are. Despite the fact that the marriage is bad, we met with the minister and the co-workers and said those key comments that should be taken into account in order for the marriage to happen, I would not say good, but at all be able to live. This marriage is like a frame without a picture. After 20 years, we have a law before us that asks more questions than solutions or answers. The Long-Term Care Act should be a law that should be adopted with the widest possible support here in the National Assembly and also in the civil society. This law is quite the opposite - virtually everyone opposes it. It is opposed by those users, mainly whether they are pensioners in the vast majority, who will have to carry out long-term care under this law. Then find out who can. But the biggest problem, in our opinion, is, of course, financing, which is not fixed or fixed in the way that you are already making a new public financial contribution, and let me be clear. You're the one who's gonna burden the economy or the people. You didn't just say how long. The excuses when it comes to supporting a law that actually says if it's 1%, 2, 1.2, it won't. SDS, Nova Slovenija, SMC, DESUS, SNS and others, who will support this today, support and introduce a new public financial contribution. That's a fact. And it's probably necessary, but we should say today how much it's going to cost someone, how much it's going to burden someone. The law in Article 132 clearly states that the special law on compulsory long-term care insurance should be in force until 30 June 2025. And, dear colleagues, the laws are not written in such a way that you transfer all obligations to the future. In short the marriage is bad, the law is saving virtually nothing, it is opposed by all stakeholders to make you on your list a hook to make the law ready. Slovenia and pensioners deserve more and better, according to our assessment. The next government will have to fix all these things because the law will simply not be able to be implemented. For about a month and a half in this National Assembly, there is a debate, and we are trying to find out what are the things that need to be changed in order to make the law workable. If you've listened to us, you certainly haven't heard us. And this is in a law that is extremely important and in which we should really try to find the widest possible agreement within the National Assembly and also with society. [[sign for the end of the debate]] We will, of course, be in the party of the SAB, the law that we have before us today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. After more than 20 years of attempts to regulate the area of long-term care, we are now in the final stage of adopting this extremely important law. In the legislative process, we listened in particular to the comments made by the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia. Thus, in the second reading of the Desus Group, we have submitted a supplement to include volunteers in the long-term care system. The older one’s project is so positive that we should not ignore it. The programme includes the growing elderly in a way that volunteers in the local environment can find and help people who are needed. By delivering humanitarian packages, hot meals, food purchases, housework, transportation to a doctor or pharmacy, associations and escorts. In Desus we advocate that their work must be appreciated and their contribution further recognized. If we ask people how they want to survive their old age, most will say that they want to live at home as long as it is possible and the older ones program helps them to do so. The positive effects are mutual, including volunteers remain active and feel refined and useful. We are therefore extremely glad that they are now included in the Long - Term Care Act. In the Desus Group, we have also tabled an amendment for the third reading that will justify e-services for all over 80 years of age who are not included in long-term care but live most of the day alone. Here too, we have listened to the proposals of the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia for e-Supply, the elderly will be able to live longer, safely and independently in the home environment and we must make this possible to them as much as possible. At present, the greatest problems in the area of long-term care are in particular the fragmentation of rights between different rules, the absence of a single assessment scale, complex administrative procedures, the absence of centralised access to information and insufficient access to community services. All these challenges are met by the law. Funding is also provided until the mandatory collateral is established, the budget is provided. If we look at what I have pointed out a few times, a demented provider classified in the highest care category is now paying about 900 euros a month by the care in the institution. After the adoption of the law, he will pay only the so-called hotel work, which will amount to about 600 euros a month, so the law will alleviate the financial burden on many families. We understand the concerns and concerns of the ZZZS, because the law imposes new tasks on them, but we believe they will be able, and we are extremely pleased that we have managed to ensure that the supplies are not raised at the expense of the employee's salary increase. This part will also cover the state budget. The epidemic has shown very control over the unregulated area of care for the elderly and other help needed by vulnerable groups, and if ever, it is high time to settle this area today. We have already said in the first reading of the law that the law on long-term care is neither coalition nor opposition, but it is extremely important and does not allow room for any political prestige, so it is right to step up together and reach consensus on such an important issue. In the Desus Group of Members, we will also, of course, support the law in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, everyone a good day. Today, the adoption of a law on long-term care is ending, which we can agree is one of the most important laws not only in this mandate but also through the prism of social responsibility and solidarity. It is precisely for this reason that we regret that the law is adopted without the general social consent and consistency with the profession and civil society. The journey for its implementation in practice is therefore poor. Even worse, the complete inadequacy of systemic funding is, in fact, a key issue that should already exist in society and, above all, political consensus. It is likely that we are not too far from the truth if we make the thesis that the ruling coalition has deliberately decided to simply deposit the financial part of the long - term supply into one of the future authorities or coalitions, whatever that may be. Why? Because it's the toughest nut in the current coalition that has failed to crack in time. Or they didn't want to kill him. In return, citizens and citizens will be convinced that it is a treasure for the nations and that no one other than themselves has been able to bring the law under the parliamentary roof in all these years. But let's ask what the price is. At the cost of keeping the key issues intact and not knowing who will pay for the question. The most common and main criticism that is so pointed out by all those who have given a position on the law is that without the introduction of insurance and a new system-wide source of funding, the law of empty shells is not guaranteed long-term sustainability. The profession also draws attention to imperfection, uncertainty, too much is left to the various rules, and too little attention is already being paid to the burning human resources deficit. However, the Economic and Social Council or the social partners did not have a say in the drafting of the law. If there was a desire on the government's side to invite all interested stakeholders to the table and try to talk to them and coordinate them, we believe there would be more answers today than there are questions, and so on, more questions than answers. Therefore, the urgency of the adoption process after our assessment has achieved the opposite, negative effect. We did not strongly oppose the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in the previous stages of the legislative procedure. We have pointed out, however, that the law needs to be improved in subsequent stages of the legislative process. We also noted that all business options should be used to analyse and process the proposed solutions in the widest possible dialogue with stakeholders, which unfortunately did not happen. On the contrary, we have witnessed a reduction in the regular procedure and the exclusion of expert opinions, including those that point out why and in which parts of the law cannot be implemented. In order to illustrate, the Health Insurance Office is on 3. 12. addressed an appeal to the Ministry of Health to remedy non-compliance and error in the draft law. I quote: "The Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance of the current provisions of the bill identifies new legal gaps, inconsistencies and uncertainties which will be further highlighted and addressed in the coming days." In practice, too, it has proved that the law adopted today is incomplete, flawed and, in particular, financially empty, the responsibility will have to be sought from its proponents. [[Incomprehensible]] Unfortunately, we cannot support such a proposal in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. And we stress that our warnings do not mean that we do not need long-term care or that the proposed legislation is deliberately disrupted. Everything before that. What else do we care about? More than just for the drawn hook on the list of coalition promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u38	Have a good day to all present, especially to the representatives of the government and you, the chairman, in the Chamber. The demographic picture of Slovenia has been drawing images that we are the inhabitants of Slovenia, that we are the inhabitants of Slovenia becoming older and older. However, the growth of the elderly raises the question of whether the country has responded adequately in the last 10 years to the needs of an ageing society. Of course not. Different needs also come with age. More and more older ones will or will need help in everyday life. It should be borne in mind that today's social changes require faster adaptations. However, we have failed to adapt in almost all areas. For years and years, we ignored the needs of the elderly and secretly put them aside. We talk a lot about violence against women, children, and also animals, but we wisely remain silent about violence against the elderly. At times, I feel that many are older to be understood as the burden of society. An old man is not the burden of society, but he must be an equal member of society. It would be hard to find someone who's never heard of nursing homes. [[Incomprehensible]] So that he wouldn't know anyone who wanted to put his own man in a home, he died before he got a place in any home. In recent months, we have read the heart of the mating story of the elderly who live in decaying homes and who have no bread, week or day, except for the heat. There's no way we're gonna point at what someone didn't do, but we should. If I list all the ministers, yes, most of them were women who put long-term care aside, they will not grow a new home for the elderly in Ljubljana or somewhere in the countryside. If you have a nanism of all the missing analyses that are just money thrown through the window, it will not improve the situation in this area. You all say something with your finger on someone, but the fact is, we're considering a law that should have been passed decades ago. It is impossible to believe that anyone will produce a law that everyone likes. It's not a chance, but somewhere to start. It would be good if we buried the first shovel here and now. The situation on the ground is indeed terrible because of the long-standing conscious neglect of this area. We are very pleased that our initiative on Rape has also experienced an epilogue. The first step is done, so anything can be done if you just want to. With the proposed law, all people will have the opportunity to benefit from the same rights as different services from the long-term care system. The law thus introduces the right to services at home, to provide family members, to receive long-term care and institutional protection. The remuneration will be allocated according to the eligibility assessment, not taking into account the size of the assets. After all, it is important to ask whether we will give priority to forms of assistance in homes for the elderly or help in the home environment, or whether we will try to treat both areas equally. The law under consideration provides an opportunity for any choice of rights. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we stand in the position that it is necessary to ensure that the elderly remain in the loving environment as long as possible. However, institutional protection should be useful only in extreme cases. These are good solutions that also signal outside that they are no longer objects that are [[?]] sometimes referred to as "martials". [[?]] . However, we believe that more emphasis should be placed on complementary activities on farms, in the form of the implementation of the social protection programme. This would preserve rural life, create new jobs and care for the elderly. Only red tape about obtaining different permits should be arranged. But if I understand the law-makers correctly, a pilot project is being prepared to do just that. So the hope remains that Slovenian villages will live and people will not go to neighbouring countries, because it is only there that they can afford a home. It would also be wise to think this way in order to take the example of some other countries, cities that are failing and no longer having an active economic infrastructure, [[sign for the end of the debate]] changed into cities of the elderly. The apple of the dispute is the financing of long-term care. The government claims that the money will go from the budget, but it will have to consider some other funding path in the long term. There is still much work to be done, so there is no time for us to fight over the stakes and pussies, and what desire the law makers did not take into account. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u40	That's a nice greeting. Thank you for saying that. The Slovenian population is one of the oldest in the world, which means that more and more people need help, both in health care and in everyday life. In Slovenia, partial arrangements in the area of long-term care are not transparent. Rights are governed by different rules. There are different entry points and different needs assessment procedures. The new law will only simplify this, establishing a single entry point, that is, the CFSP, which assesses the eligibility for long-term care and issues a decision authorising long-term care. The highest proportion of long-term care remains formal care in an institution based primarily on so-called health care and is not sufficiently adapted to an individual. In addition, access to services varies between regions and between the urban and rural environment, which applies in particular to services in the community and at home. The idea is for older ones to stay at home as long as possible, because they want to do so and to be able to stay there and provide the help they need. Long-term care represents a series of services, measures and activities aimed at persons who, due to the consequences of illness, age weakness, injury, disability, lack or loss of intellectual capacity over a longer period of time, are not less than three months or are permanently dependent on the assistance of other persons in the management of basic and supporting daily rules. What long-term care is enshrined in Article 14 of the Law, which defines long-term care services such as basic daily tasks such as nutrition, drinking and feeding, personal hygiene, clothing, movement. Secondly, assistance in supporting daily activities, such as assistance in household tasks, purchases of food and living needs, preparation and service of meals. Thirdly, care services related to basic daily tasks such as monitoring vital functions and other parameters, monitoring of health status, preparation and control of medicines. And fourthly, services for strengthening and maintaining independence such as services aimed at strengthening and maintaining functional capacity, counselling for adapting the living environment, post-diagnostic support services for people with disabilities in physical and mental health. Provision is also made for the provision of which services include, in particular, information and communication technology and remote services to ensure the independence and security of beneficiaries in the home environment. Long-term care providers are public institutions that provide these services to their staff and capacities now, for example, the homes of older citizens, and that provision is made for nursing homes and other facilities of the living community, housing groups and the like, and they can also carry out other legal persons and independent entrepreneurs, individuals and natural persons and holders of complementary activities on the farm. A special new form of long-term care at home is the provider of a family member who will receive a partial payment for lost income amounting to 1,2-krnic minimum wage, which will be indicated by the ZZZS. This institute will be introduced in 2024 and will then also introduce a monetary allowance, which in some ways replaces the aid and service allowance. All those who will provide long-term care will have to carry out special education and training in so far as they have not been trained to do so. Even now and in the future, long-term care will be provided by individuals with different profiles from social workers, social gerontologists, medical personnel and so on. We have also included ZDUS volunteers who are already helping older people in the project older people. These too will have to undergo compulsory training. Each recipient of long-term care will be entrusted with a long-term supply coordinator who has an education in these areas that I have listed and will prepare an implementation plan, monitor and evaluate implementation. All existing forms of nursing homes, patronage services, help at home remain and are integrated into a single system. In the SDS Group of Members, we are pleased that, under the leadership of Janez Janša, after 20 years of unsuccessful attempts, the Government has prepared the Long-Term Care Act and we will gladly support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u42	He rushes, says the government, rushes, rushes, rushes so immeasurably that it doesn't matter what kind of law he sees what's in it, just for the cost of the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u43	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u44	Poembich, calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u45	Marian Pojbich, a reminder. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u46	This government, of course, imposes an extremely scandalously bad marriage. And this for one simple reason - because in fact everything they promise to bring this marriage, because it is urgent, will not come until one year or two and a half. And that's one of the reasons why, of course, we can see why this scandalousness is so reflected. This is a completely semi-product, which is essentially a simple framework of some proposals that will in fact be regulated by the Rules later, and this from a minister who knows something about it or knows what these rules will really determine what the rights, what the scope will be. And it's basically some kind of ionco currency to leave the will, the movement, the knowledge of some minister who's just about to come. I only hope that the minister who comes will know something about long-term care and also understand long-term care. That's all we have left. Why am I saying this? The government is essentially going to undermine everything with this law. The Constitution, the Legislative and Legal Service, at the same time, of course all legal acts and, most importantly, the contractors and users that are part of this long-term care system that they will use. Just to make one simple hook in the end, and this in Brussels, done, we have a law that talks about long-term care so that we can get these funds. However, it does not tell Brussels and its local people, it simply does not tell the truth. That's why I'm going to tell her instead of her, a government that doesn't really have that courage. Yes, in fact, after one, we are supposed to have institutional protection that we already have today, and in two and a half years, we will have a cash receipt or family member or long - term care at home, and you will expect it all together by 1 July 2024. We have therefore proposed amendments to the LMŠ in the form of an amendment that moves this date on 1 January 2023, so that at least one year from now we will get these things, which the government boasts and does not really want to give them. Why? Because he doesn't know. Because he doesn't want Because he doesn't admit it, and he doesn't even say he doesn't really give you anything. You just don't say that before the elections. It is simply not said that it is a compulsory insurance that will have to be paid by anyone who, of course, will have revenue. But not before the elections, and why? Because then I should tell you what this contribution would be and on what basis and in what form. And he doesn't know that, he doesn't want to because he realizes he can lose the election. That is why you will really listen to a single compliment today. Just thanking themselves for how after 20 years the SDS allowed, and this coalition, of course, long-term care. But it's all going to be nothing. In fact, no rights, nothing but words. Well, this coalition is good at selling words. We will not support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out pursuant to Article 140(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the members of the Left and the LMŠ. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. Sitter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Allow me, President, of course, to discuss it a little wider.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u49	No, no, no. I told you. Article 3 is very specific. The broader debate was in the views of the parliamentary groups. You had a debate on the boards, you had everything you could. Now let's discuss the details.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u50	Okay. Then we'll talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u51	Okay, nobody wants to talk anymore. We continue and conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Does anyone want to discuss this here? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendments of the SD, LMŠ, SAB and the Unaffiliated Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendments of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and the Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendments of the SD, LMŠ, SAB and the Non-Related Members and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Does anyone want to discuss this here? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendments of the Desus Group and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Does anyone want to discuss this here? Yeah. Branko Simonovich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u52	Thank you very much, President. Thus, this addition to Article 33, which we have tabled in the Desus Group, refers to the financing of e-supply from the annual amount or units agreed in the basic law being transferred to the monthly amount to be determined up to a maximum of 31 units per month and to an individual beneficiary and that, including a one-off cost of up to 50 units for the installation of equipment. The second part of paragraph 6 and 7 shall also be extended slightly to other insured persons aged 80 years and over on the initiative of the Association of Retired Persons' Associations. These are our compliments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 59 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 65 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 101 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. May I have your attention in the hall? I am putting to the debate the amendments of the NSi, SDS and SMC to the new 127.a. Anybody want a word? Yeah. Alenka Bratušek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u54	I'm sorry to say that there's hardly anyone interested in telling you what you're about to change in this law, despite the fact that the coalition has tabled a whole bunch of amendments. And we expected you to explain them to us and to the public what was going on. This concrete amendment kind of solves what you originally failed to do. This is the financing of wages in DSOs. The question is whether the solution you're proposing belongs to this law. That's a big question. Secondly, you're saving this in the short term, but as I said yesterday in the debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u55	Just a moment, my colleague. The next article's talking about it. This Article [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u56	127.a. Isn't that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u57	Article 128a speaks about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u58	Can I go on now or then? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u59	No, no, no. I have to close the debate on the article, and then I will open the next debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u60	And I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u61	Yeah, that's right. Anyone else want a word at 127? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 128 and the amendment of the NSI, SDS and SMC groups of Members. Colleague Alenka Bratusek, she's got a no, next. [[…]] Anybody want a word here? He doesn't want to. The next 128.a Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. [[…]] Since the amendment by the NSI, SDS and SMC to the new 128th Article is substantively linked to the amendment of Article 154, we will discuss all amendments to these two articles together. I therefore place two amendments to the NSI, SDS and SMC's parliamentary groups for a new 128.a. and to Article 154 and two amendments to Article 154. My colleague Bratsek, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u62	President, you have now said that we are considering the amendment to Article 128.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u63	The eighth is Article 128a. For the new Article 128a.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u64	For the new 128th. Thank you. And the fact that we hunt like this shows how you go about adopting such an important marriage. But anyway, once again, I'm going to say that you're here temporarily saving what you initially thought was useful and reasonable to hang on the caregivers at home for the elderly. This is an increase in the wages of employees in the DSO. This solution is partial. We have proposed an amendment to the budget, to the budget, where we would secure the money in the budget, but you will now be stuck here in the money you have provided for the long-term supply in the budget. What's going to be less for this, I don't know. You might be able to tell today. The fact is that money for long-term care in the budget is provided more than any year before. That's a fact, and that's a good thing. But now you're using this amendment to make this 16 million for something else that was originally envisaged. Our proposal was to provide an additional 16 million for the money provided in the budget. That's the first thing. Second thing. The Long-Term Supply Act does not provide systemic funding or is provided in a way that no one knows how much this will cost in 2025. The fact is, you're introducing a new contribution, it's a fact. The fact is, if the next Government so decides, you will be able to burden the economy or people with this contribution. So no one knows who will provide the money that is needed for long-term care, so you wrote in the law in 2025. It would be right and proper for you to write in the law today, it will also cost so much and so much in 2025, for which a new compulsory duty is imposed and it is also stated who will bear the burden of this duty and how much this duty will be. The way you've chosen today is irresponsible, but of course you can't escape the fact that this government, this coalition, is the one that introduced the new contribution. That's a fact. That's a fact. Article 132 clearly states that by 30 June 2025 it is only necessary to say who and how much. That's all. This law introduces a new public financial contribution, compulsory long-term care insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u65	My colleague, this is not the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u66	It's a subject of funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u67	The subject of this amendment is, we both know exactly what it is. That is to say, the difference that will have to be made to ensure that the guardians do not rise. There's nothing else. There's no other contribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u68	And unfortunately, there's no telling where that money's going to come from, is there?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u69	I know, but we're not talking about any level of contribution right now, and I don't know what, but just about this being covered, this difference, so that the guardianship doesn't rise from the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u70	Yes, because I'm explaining to you that the problem is the President-in-Office. Because you're not talking about how much the contribution rate is going to rise, but just that it will. Even to secure those salaries. Why? Because you simply cannot tell yourself that you are introducing a new contribution. But that's a fact. Pika. True, this is not referred to in Article 128 or Article 128a, but it is referred to in Article 132. But if the things written in the law and the 16 million are a new obligation in this law, then on the other hand, you also have to say where and who will pay for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u71	Colleague, Article 132 is not open and no amendment has been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u72	What's going on? Debate or something?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u73	We are talking about Article 128a and the content of the amendments that have been tabled here. Please, come on. Please stick to the content. I told you before and announced how this was arranged in the Rules of Procedure. And we're going in order, and we're going in with the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u74	You're going to hang 16 extra million dollars on this bill. 16 extra million. And no one tells you where to get them and how to get them. Now, if 16 million is that little money, I don't know. That's why I put this together in the resources you're predicting, and that's a mandatory duty. I think that makes sense. Because this marriage is not just ladies, ladies, as you are boasting, it will guarantee, we will guarantee, we will do, but on the other hand it has a side that will have to provide these revenues. That's why I'm stressing it. And in 2025 you introduce new public funding sources – compulsory insurance for long-term care, that is a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u75	My colleague, I suggest you read the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u76	So what's this?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u77	Read the amendment and talk about the amendment. [[advertising from the hall]] All non-amendment-related items [[…]] Colleague Kociper, please refrain from any comments. Procedural Masha Kociper. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] You wanted the procedure. She broke her application herself. [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u78	I cannot understand, Vice President Tanko, why you are deliberately getting into conflict with Members. Do you really enjoy pissing us off and having a conflict? You've been in this House for years, I don't know. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u79	Colleague, procedural question, not history. You have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u80	No! No! When I want to! I'll set it up in three minutes. Look, I still have 2:36. In these three minutes, when I decide, I will make a procedural proposal. And you look up there, 2:29, 2:28, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u81	Colleague, behave with dignity.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u82	When you were in the opposition, you fought the most for a broader debate in the first articles, in accordance with established business practice. Today you have abused your leadership, and you have not allowed Members to speak more widely as part of the third reading of this law. Things are connected. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u83	My colleague, just a moment. I have read to you the provisions of the Rules of Procedure governing the debate on the third reading. Nothing else. [[advertising from the hall]] And of course, because I want to tell you. [[…]] And I expect nothing from you entirely but that you stick to the rules of procedure at the third reading. Nothing else. If you don't understand anything, anyone can tell you anything about it. You have the services of the National Assembly, you have your professional job, someone else can tell you something. But we are leading the debate by the rules of procedure governing the third hearing. The first paragraph of Article 140 accurately prescribes the content. And let my colleague Bratushek speak [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Slowly, I haven't discussed or spoken to the place. My colleague Bratušek is talking about Article 132 and an article that is not open. We have here a very precise content of this provision and this amendment. Here, you have the floor to proceed with the procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u84	Mr President, I don't remember when the chairman of the House in my time took the floor in the middle of a procedural proposal, I don't remember that ever happening. Not only did you take the floor during the debate, but you took the floor with me during the hearing. My procedural proposal is that you respect the long-standing practice of the National Assembly, where the first articles of the law can be discussed more broadly. However, as regards my colleague Bratušek's discussion, she discussed strictly the issue of funding, which is regulated in several articles and the articles are interlinked and therefore it is difficult to discuss as narrowly as you imagined to shorten this debate. And I'll tell you, when I'm on the turn of the amendment, I'm going to have a broader debate, and you can't stop me from doing this because the funding is connected because the fact that the stakeholders disagree with the law is linked to more articles. And please don't violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u85	Procedurally, not content, colleague Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u86	Two more minutes, I've got a minute. In short, I've never seen [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u87	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u88	Did I make a procedural proposal? Didn't you hear him? I demand that, in accordance with business practice, which we have been following for years and years, and you have been very much in favour of it, Members be allowed to discuss more widely at the beginning of the debate in the first articles. Because you will not allow this now, I hope, a little less picolic in each individual article if the Member discusses a broader issue. You cannot discuss the issue of funding only under this amendment, but you can also relate to everything else, and you have always advocated that the most important right that every Member in this Parliament has is the right to a free debate. And since you're vice president, you've been sticking to this and taking away this fundamental right to speak. And please do not interrupt any more colleagues and please allow the debate to take place in the context of the third reading as we have always discussed. Thank you very much. I've got 56 seconds left.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u89	Thank you very much. As for my views and my discussions in the previous mandates of 2000 and beyond, you have everything available there in the archives of the National Assembly, see. I didn't ask for anything, I never asked for anything special, I always defended the rules of the Assembly when the presidents didn't always act and take measures like I do now. Otherwise, this Rules of Procedure, co-worker Kociper, have been in force since 2002. It has a longer parliamentary practice than any other practice. The provisions are clear, absolutely clear and if you want to change anything, you have every opportunity to request the Commission to amend the Rules of Procedure, nothing else. And not here to deal with me, I am not the subject of this, I am defending the Rules of Procedure, if you decide that it is possible at any third reading at any Article 120 to discuss the contents of the law more broadly and so on, and so on, it will be done if it does not, but if it is written as much as we will now do as it now writes. Gradually, Comrade Koprivc. Marko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Look, this is already pointless in some way. The fact is, you are restricting the functioning of the National Assembly. The fact is, as colleague Kociper said, that this business provision has always been understood so far so that the first amendment can also be discussed a little wider. That's why I came to the hall, I sat and waited and I was ready for the debate. When I saw where the dog is praying and you literally took the word away from your colleague from the Left, I said I wouldn't say a word, because it doesn't make sense. Then Mrs Bratušek tried to follow your demands and only discussed the article, but of course the funding is connected, we cannot only talk about one article if the two articles are talking about funding. And she wasn't actually discussing anything broader than the article, and you just took her word, and you interrupt in the middle of the sentences. That doesn't even make sense. Then how are we gonna talk? We cannot even relate our thoughts to any provision that may touch another provision. And Mr. Tanko, you are violating fundamental democratic rights in the National Assembly and you are banning the opposition from speaking and I am here calling on the President of Parliament to come to the Chamber and make an order [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u91	Comrade Koprivc [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u92	Because we can't operate anymore. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u93	which provision of the Rules of Procedure has been breached? [[…]] The first paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure, the first paragraph governing the third reading, reads as follows: [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u94	Look, you're not gonna be the one who's smart about this. [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u95	says the next, and I will also warn you, because you are leaping into my word without giving you my word. [[…]] “In the third reading, the National Assembly shall hold a debate on the individual articles of the proposed law ha to which amendments have been tabled and shall vote on the amendments and proposals of the law.” This is a provision written by Mr Potts or Comrade Potts. And I hope that you are proud, heir to your esteemed leader of the parliamentary group from that time when this Rules of Procedure were formed and adopted. That's exactly what it says, and I haven't read anything else, and I've asked anyone here to discuss it. However, it can be discussed, Comrade Koprivc, on new Article 128a and Article 154. But these two are related because I read both of them together and you can discuss the amendments to both of these articles. This is referred to as the new 128a and the 154th Article as amendments. That's it. And there's nothing else here. And neither does anyone need to be sad, so it has been set for almost 20 years. It's been almost 20 years since 2002. Procedurally first Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Vice President. You actually read it. I protest that you cannot interpret it as first, you cannot interpret the first paragraph of Article 140 as you interpret it. [[…]] So we can discuss individual articles of the bill. So, we are discussing individual articles, but these are related to others. And otherwise the law cannot be discussed. No members are by themselves as such. So, I'm saying you're misinterpreting this. Secondly, a clear agreement between all parliamentary groups that the President shall chair the meeting in a neutral manner. If he wants a word, I have to take my word for it. Otherwise, he has to run the session on his own. This is a perfectly clear agreement and I think you're not sticking to the agreements and you're actually cutting the debate. Please conduct this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u97	Thank you very much. My colleague Starović, I am meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The provision under which I am leading the debate on amendments or new articles, I am working exactly on the Rules of Procedure. I have read the provision that regulates this and I also want you to discuss it this way, fellow Members. I hope you understand this unequivocal provision. We are now moving forward with procedural proposals. Magus first. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u98	Look, vice president, one more time. Even if you adhere strictly to this article, even if you do not adhere to the agreement that has been in force so far, at the first amendment, I would like to reiterate once again that you have taken the floor with no real reason. Indeed, a certain article is being discussed, but things are connected. And when it comes to financing, of course, it is perfectly normal to ask ourselves what is on the revenue side, even if the next article deals with it. Mr Tanko, I repeat, you are abusing the Vice-President's position to limit the possibility of discussing the opposition. And please don't take offense to our forerunners, to our respectable lord or comrades, as you would like, Runs and doesn't involve these things because they have nothing to do with it. Above all, you sit in your chair and you can talk about proud heirs and whoever you want. However, when you are in charge of the National Assembly, abstain from these valuable judgments because it is unacceptable and untasteful what you are doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u99	Thank you very much. My colleague, in particular, I would like you to be quite precise and precise in your statements, even when it comes to procedural proposals. I warned my colleague Bratušek that she was also discussing the contents that were not related to the new 128th and 154th articles of the amendments, and I did not take her word that there would be anything wrong, but she turned herself off. That's different. I am obliged to point out that, according to the Rules of Procedure, if you look at it, I think that this is Article 75, which refers to the one who speaks only to the President, is Article 75, paragraph 2 or 3. Look, this is set out in the Rules of Procedure. The President is the only one who has the right to speak to anyone. Don't comment on business things that you just can't handle. I can see that. I've noticed that many times before, and I'm going to tell you that you can't control them. Sieter has the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. We have one law ahead of us, which has two key problems, which is a procedural and substantive problem that we keep putting on from the inside. One is privatisation of long-term care, the other is financing or not financing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u101	Procedural proposal, not content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u102	Let me take that in my 20, 2 minutes and [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u103	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u104	The 38 seconds I have left, I'll tell you what a procedural proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u105	Content is a matter of discussion, but a procedural proposal means that the application of the Rules of Procedure is used. Privatisation, recapitalisation and similar things are not a matter of procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u106	We'll recapitalize the long-term supply once possible. Look, two key issues, and in these two key problems, you stopped Members in the debate. You stopped me at the beginning of an article that deals with privatisation and "experiment" in the area of long-term care. You stopped colleague Alenka Bratušek when she spoke of lack or insufficient funding. The fact is, these kind of violations only happen when you're sitting in this chair. My procedural question is, since you started your shift at 10:00, when do you finish it? Vice-President, you have two hour shifts I assume that this is at 12. And that someone else will take over and that the National Assembly will be able to function from there normally, to discuss the amendments substantively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u107	Comrade Siter, this wasn't a procedural proposal, so I'm giving you a warning. We continue with procedural issues. Vojko Starović, he has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u108	Just for a little while. The debate may open on those articles which are open, i.e. where the amendments are.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u109	It's about connected articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u110	However, nowhere does the Rules of Procedure say that we can only discuss strictly the content of this Article, each article is linked. That was my comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Does Alenka Bratušek want to continue the debate? [[Yeah.]] He does. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u112	Thank you. Of course, a person can understand this nervousness in view of the confusion that reigns when he adopts the law. Now I'm going to read the title of the article. Article 128a of the envelope below says funding – listen carefully once again – for sufficient work costs. My question is, where are we going to fund these 16 extra million? Will we also finance this through the new contribution you are making? Is it so hard to understand that it's connected that you have to tell me where you get the money if you want to pay something? This amendment came into law after the opposition's pressure to make a reasonable rise — as you called it — do not go to users in the DSO. With the amendments we wanted to ensure this in the state budget, you were not in favour, you voted against, and then after pressure from the public, you found that we were right and now, in this law to force you still have to finance the salaries of the people who are employed there, and that 16 million will have to be found somewhere. This 16 million will have to be provided and that is why this 16 million is still related to the new contribution you are introducing, or you do not want to hear it. On 30 June 2025, I can say that you are additionally burdening the economy because there is no record of who will pay for it. A new contribution rate that will burden employers for a percentage, two, three, five, I don't know how much. As much as the new government will decide, because the law will have to be passed, so you wrote. This is not whether or not it will be introduced. It will be introduced because you have written down that it must be introduced and let this be clear. But you can move around, and you're jumping around in chairs as much as you want it to be, and I don't know what. 132. Article 132 clearly lays down these matters. That's the way it is. Why don't you clearly write this down as meaning, according to our calculations, a 1.2% higher rate of contribution. Why don't you write that down? Because you do not hope to tell the economy that instead of burdening it, as you promise, you will burden it a little further. That's the whole story. The only good thing about this whole marriage is this amendment. The only one. It would have been much better if you'd listened to us in time and provided money in the budget, but okay, after you realized that you were wrong, you realized that the opposition was right and you wouldn't have pushed the salary up on the caregiver. So that's the only thing besides our amendments, of course, that I will vote for as a Member. However, the law is bad, irregular, and it would be better not to accept it, but when it is established, of course you will no longer be in power and we will all have problems implementing this law, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is from Secretary of State, Alenka Forte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u114	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Allow me to turn now to this debate that the Members of the SAB have had. See, nowhere in the law does it say that the date on which the compulsory long-term care insurance is applied is the only source of funding for long-term care. It will continue to be in force under Article 48, which has 6 items and among them is compulsory long-term care insurance, funds collected from compulsory and pension insurance, which will, of course, no longer be required, but still remain a state budget, the assets of the demographic fund which [[?]] We really hope that this law will be adopted, or long ago, by means of the budget of the European Union, donations and other resources. Therefore, paragraphs 3 to 6, 48 will remain in force and it does not say anywhere that after the imposition of the compulsory insurance it will be the only source. He won't. It will remain scattered, which is the only thing that matters, because in this way we guarantee security, and European countries that are more socially developed than I am have a higher share of [[?]] or some, even entirely, from the resources of the State budget. That's why there's now public deception and intimidation. Article 48 will be added with these, with points 3, 4, 5 and 6, still in force. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word Reploco has Alice Bratusek. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u116	You must have listened to me wrong. All I am saying is that you are introducing a new contribution and thank you for this confirmation. You are introducing a new contribution. Of course, there will be other sources. But besides other sources, you're making a new contribution. That is a fact, and it would be wise to tell the economy today how much it will cost. That's one thing. I will say, and half procedurally, the President, or have you heard, the Secretary of State talked about Article 48, but you didn't jump at her, and you took her words, as it did to me before, which is, of course, right, because if we're talking about money, it's not just in one article, but it's also about the others. I did not say that this would be the only source, but the fact that today, by adopting this law, you are introducing a new public-financial contribution. It's a good thing to do it a hundred times and to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you're right. You have warned me, I agree with your proposal, but because the funding is closely linked to Article 48, so I have not taken the word away from her, but I guarantee that from now on I will take the word away from her, and we will somehow stick to the individual amendments that have been tabled. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go. Okay. I've got you written down. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u118	I didn't come forward, I'm in Article 2, just because Mr Tanko was babbling about Article 154 and another article, and my colleague Bratušek warned him to clear up what article we're discussing, he created confusion, and now you're taking this mess and going on because I don't know what you're writing up there. Please! I'm gonna raise my hand when I want to, and I'm not gonna mention that I'm gonna argue if it's not my turn at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u119	Mr Ambassador, I apologize, but you were here on this list, but I did not follow. Anybody else want to talk about Article 128? [[Yeah.]] Marko Bandelli has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u120	Thank you, President. As the Secretary of State said, this article relates to Article 2, and I will give one question to the Secretary of State, which is fundamental and which has not yet been clarified in this law. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like one answer. You tell the people who are looking at us on the screen here, how much will this law affect the economy? You tell us how many entrepreneurs, employers, will be burdened by this law after 2025, it is said, as it says, from 30 June 2025 this must be accepted. We don't have a record of what that's gonna be, that number. That is to say how much the impact is likely to be on gross wages or on gross wages, and that is to say that we know what this is about because we or you are now adopting this law without explaining the main problem, which is the financing of the law and no one here knows what this means for them. In this marriage and this is a very important matter. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u121	Dear Mr Bandelli, this is not the content of the 128th article, which is open and I will say we will also follow the procedure that is. Does anyone else have anything to do with Article 128? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Koprivc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. See, this article actually speaks about the fact that an increase in the salaries of social workers would somehow translate into the Long-Term Care Act and over this would be financed. Now, as has already been said today, it has been mainly disputed that the Government wanted this increase in wages to pass on to residents of the elderly. This is absolutely unacceptable and, in the democratic opposition, we have warned that a sustainable resource for these funds must be provided. A permanent resource you didn't want to provide until the end. Then, after severe pressure from the public, trade unions and everyone else, you tried to manoeuvre to ensure these funds through the Long-Term Supply Act, resources that are not actually there and are said to be, this is not a permanent resource, because for a few years the funds would be provided through the law of the budget, and then it is not clear how to provide funds for this law at all and we are talking about it all the time today. In fact, it all points to the need to provide some new tax source for this area, but this, the respected Government of Janez Janša, you do not hope to say and therefore this law is meaningless. And you are reminded of this, everyone, you are warned by the profession, you are warned by civil society organisations, you are warned by users, and you have been warned by the democratic opposition at all times. You didn't want to hear it. We will only listen to the compliments of how after 20 years you have adopted a law that does not solve anything, a law that is bad, incomplete, incomprehensible and, above all, unclear and in particular, I repeat once again, a flaw in the work that talks about financing and, on the other hand, the law completely opens the door to privatisation of social protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u123	Dear Mr Koprivc, I respectfully request that you stick to the amendment to Article 128. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u124	Mr Simonovich, I'm sticking to the amendment and I'm going to end up here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u125	No, you're having a broad discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u126	We are talking about funding, we are talking about providing funding for employees' salaries in the DSOs. And here, of course, is the legitimate question where you will provide the source for these salaries. But we're not just talking about salaries, we're talking about funding in general. Because your marriage does not solve the issue of where the source will be provided. I believe and we all guess together that you'll probably introduce some new donation. But it's only right for the Slovenian public to know. Not that you're talking, say nicely how you adopted the law, but at the same time you didn't do anything. Except for one year you've provided funds in the budget. So, of course, the Social Democrats will vote against this law. This kind of law is harmful and only applies to the EPP of the government of Janez Janša. But you did nothing but open the door to privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Znidaršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u128	Genius, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u129	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u130	In Article 128, I would like to say that this is indeed an amendment that we have tabled by coalition parties, in this way we have found a solution so that there will be no rise in wages in social security institutions, as we have already warned and said a few times that, of course, this increase in salaries was necessary, but that they will not exceed the costs on the providers we then found this solution so that this increase in salaries which would then be known in the care of the pensioners' homes will be covered from the budget. And this 128th article brings this. Some cautioned that it was not about persistent resources. It will be arranged from 1. 12. 2021 until the end of 2022. For with 1. 1. 2023 provides for a completely different calculation of the payment of these social security services in one way or another, as long-term care law will start to be implemented and then no longer need to be regulated for this year and month. In this way, we resolve that the rise of oskarbnin will not be passed on to users in or to their property, but rather that these costs will be absorbed by the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Primož Siter also applied for the discussion on Article 128a. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Primoz.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I count you to be such a mature and reasonable person that you understand that when we talk about financing long-term care services, things are inter-sectorally linked. To speak on the one hand about tax policy, to talk about the state budget, to talk about contributions either by the economy or by the people and residents, and to say that we cannot just shoot at one target. However, this specific measure or measure concerns this area. See if anyone keeps long-term care up, if someone keeps care of the weaker, the disabled, the children with special needs, and in this part especially the elderly and the elderly in nursing homes, this is not the Ministry of Health, this is not the Ministry of Labour, this is not the Government, this is not us Members, these are the people who are sewing in the suits. These are employees and employees in the homes of the elderly. And if anyone has exported this epidemic, which we hope at its last stage, that we have survived at least roughly and at least as normal as a band, although we could talk about it for a long and wide time, then here are the key people to be thanked, just them. In the blackest scenarios, the system was held together on their shoulders, on their backs and on their own, to say the ethical and moral drive drove home for the elderly, who were the most alarming zones during the peaks of the epidemic. And now if someone, of course, deserves higher wages, they deserve greater visibility, not only in the name and flight of planes, but actually in a way that they will know if not otherwise in their bank accounts, in their social security. And that wages are raised to these people, of course, I don't think there's one person who would oppose it, but in the opposition we were very critical of this idea, this original idea, the Ministry of Labour, which said that raise wages are thrown on the backs of caregivers and caregivers, and of course, we also welcome this action, which is, this bad idea cancels. But now we're getting a bigger problem here because, okay, if they don't pay for it and it's right not to be paid by the caregivers and caregivers to pay for it by the state budget, which is a tool of social solidarity, the government came up with a great idea, let's push it into the Long-Term Care Act, whose main problem, whose main sin is that it doesn't have proper funding. So let's pay it out of one bag that's not. And that's why I don't buy the argument that my predecessor presented, that it's settled, and then we'll sort it out. It's been arranged for one year. But it's just, thank you so much for your efforts. There is no specific social security for workers and workers in social welfare institutions, in nursing homes. What they need is a clear financial reminder, a budgetary and permanent tribute to raise and maintain and gradually raise wages for their hard work done there, but not to save this area, in the notes, with some privatisation receptions, which we have tried to eliminate in essence in the Group of Levi, including with the amendment to Article 3, which your predecessor, the respected Vice-President, has forbidden me to explain. See, experience shows that quality public service delivery and long-term care, care for the elderly in the homes, must be, in the first phase, strong, concrete, public service, possible only if we have a numerical, educated, “veterrated” and well-paid workforce there. Privatisation and overreach of long-term care is not the solution here. They are, in fact, a diametric contrast to what we need in the area of long-term care right now. We need, according to the community of social institutions, once again so many people, only in homes for the elderly, employees [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u133	Respected [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u134	50 percent [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u135	Member of Parliament, I ask that you stick to the second paragraph of Article 75 and discuss the content of the amendment to Article 128. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u136	Dear Vice President, please don't be Jože Tanko. I think you can do better, and you don't even have this client card to tell you otherwise. See what we need in the area of long-term care, now, first, in addition to, of course, 12,13 thousand new places in the homes for the elderly, there are once again so many employees specifically paid, with a social security concern that they can develop in this area and that this whole area can develop themselves and that we have guaranteed the continuity of this area. Otherwise, the matter will fall into the hands of privatisation when it comes to the market, and standards are falling, prices are rising, and so are the caregivers and caregivers, as employees, only on the worse, and in such a way as a society, we sink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor and I remind you in advance that you are talking about the content of Article 128a [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u138	Of course, that's why I'm here now. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u139	Well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u140	That's why I'm applying for the word now. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u142	Because I want to. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u144	Clarification of paragraph 128a. [[…]] The fact is, my predecessors have been very misleading in this article, and if everyone has read only the explanation of Article 228a, they have probably understood it. However, if they wanted to discuss outside the framework, which I was also a witness to, there was no emphasis on what is being done with Article 128a, pra, fact or practical reality. [[…]] The explanation of Article 128a is as follows. On 18 November 2021 the government signed an annex to the collective contract for health and social protection activities with representative unions, according to the opposite side of the government. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 181/2021 of 19 November 2021. Due to the difficult social situation of most users of services, which has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 epidemic, funds are provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to cover this increase in salaries for employees, with which part of the increase in salaries financed from the provision is addressed. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will provide for a detailed way of co-financing the cost of work to the providers of these services. I hope that we have stopped deceiving ourselves and that my explanation, as explained by the amendments, is clear to all. True, those working in nursing homes, where they care for our relatives, close relatives, have been malnourished for many years. They worked for a minimum wage. For ten years, I have been listening in this National Assembly to how important they are only when political points are raised. But when they have to acknowledge their work and their merit and pay for it, that was not the case. And what my predecessors said, let them look back at their past work and see how much they've given them. I am pleased that we have been able to ensure this in the coalition and that they will also be recognised in this area for the work they are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Bratusek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u146	Yes, Mrs Dimic was probably missing when we discussed this amendment. We've all told you why this amendment is going to work out. Everyone, first to last. We haven't heard from any of you about where that money's coming from. From where? From where? When we tabled an amendment to secure this money in the state budget, you rejected it. Yeah, that money will be, but tell me where it's from. From a higher contribution? Yes, this law also introduces a new public financial contribution. Pika. The Secretary of State confirmed that. But if you have so many piles, I'll say, 16 million for each case in the state budget, then you're even good. 16 million is not enough money, 16 million is a lot of money. And if you found 16 million within the approved budget, because this was not guaranteed before until the opposition warned you about it. Minister Brickler the King said it would be reasonable for the caregivers to pay those salaries. That's reasonable. He's told the public a number of times, answering our tweets, that's reasonable, it's only right that the caregivers pay. I'm glad you heard us. I'm glad you heard the appeal and there won't be a raise in custody. But the fact is that this is a partial solution, not a systemic, partial solution, and that the next government will have problems. But of course you don't care, because you're saving only today and now. But what will happen in the future, we will have to save others, as we have done thousands of times by now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The replica has Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u148	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u149	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u150	Then there's the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u151	No, no, no. First of all, the representative of the proposer, Secretary of State Alenka Forte, shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Ambassador Bratusek is twisting my words. In view of the fact that this has been the case, I have merely pointed out Article 48, which clearly sets out how it will be financed in the future. That's all. And I have not said anything about any additional contribution that relates to these 16 million euros relating to salary increases that have been adopted in accordance with the signing of the collective agreement recently.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The debate wants a replica? [[…]] Mag. Alenka Bratusek has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u154	Look, Secretary of State, there are magnetograms and maybe you can get a magnetogram of your statements right now. You have confirmed that because this is what the law says, you have confirmed that a new public financial contribution is being introduced in 2025 and that is a fact. Article 132 speaks of this. A new public financial contribution that, I say, will burden the economy, burden employers. You're the one who confirmed it. If you'd listened to me, maybe you could follow my lead. We'll find a magnetogram to the end and read it to you. Of course, it's not the only source, but it's the lack of everything you've written in your marriage that you've run out of, and that's what we're telling you. And give to the government, the new government will only commit as much as 1 percent, 1.2, 1.5 will burden the economy because you don't hope to tell yourself today because you think they will buy that one of the next governments has introduced it. You've made a new contribution, but the next government will just say what, dot. I didn't say that that contribution was exactly for those 16 million, but it was introduced. Today, when you vote in favour, you will introduce a new public financial contribution for long-term care, period. Do I read you another 132, so there won't be any doubt?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u155	Your Honor, we're at 128.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u156	Yes, the fact is that in this law you are introducing a new public financial contribution and the Secretary of State, because the other cannot, has confirmed it. But I'm going to go find a magnetogram, and I'm going to read again what the secretary of state said, but the other one can't say. This is the fact that this law has been burdened since 30 June, and you have written so much more precisely, on 30 June 2025 with a new public financial contribution. And at this point, I'm going to decide that this is going to be an economy. Why would people be? And you didn't do it. We should say how much and who.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic signed up for it. Replica? Do you have a replica, Mr. Bandelli? [[Yeah.]] Here you go, Marko Bandelli, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u158	Thank you, Chairman. A replica of what the Secretary of State said and referred to Article 48 on the source of funding. Now I've been wondering for a few days here, but now there's a chance for me to say it a little bit. Now you write here what are the sources of funding, Madam Secretary of State. Compulsory long-term care insurance. Who's this mandatory insurance for? Who's gonna pay for this? We don't have anyone written anywhere that's gonna weigh that down. That's what I've been asking you before. If there are entrepreneurs and workers or employees here after 2025 and by June 2025, what will be the figure, how much will it be, where will it go? Second point. Funds collected from compulsory health and pension and disability insurance. I know it's already empty. We're filling out the pension fund from the budget anyway. Then you have the third point of the state budget, which is empty, which will be empty for the second year. Two billion and a half deficits, in 2023 billion and a half deficits, but you give this now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u159	Dear Mr. Bandelli [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u160	The fourth point of Article 48, mentioned by you, is the resources of the demographic fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u161	Mr. Bandelli, this is not a replica and in accordance with Article 77. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u162	How come it's not a replica? What the Secretary of State said about Article 48 to be powered from these sources. I've been saying this before, and now she's answering me, and now I'm answering the replica to her. President, one more minute please, no more, then I'm leaving the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u163	Mr Bandelli, I would like to draw your attention to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that someone is talking about a question that is not on the agenda. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u164	How come it's not on the agenda? That's exactly what the Secretary of State said about Article 48, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u165	I take your word for it. Look, we're taking your word for it, Mr. Bandelli. [[…]] For the debate, Mrs Iva Dimic, I am in charge of the session. [[…]] You have the floor because you signed up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u166	What did you interrupt me for now? Vice President, what is this? You've interrupted me now. Where do we live here?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u167	Eva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u168	It's a disaster, Iva Dimic, she can talk now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u169	Do you turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u170	No, I'd like to finish two more points for the president, and then I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u171	I took your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u172	Why, because I am responding to the 48th article that the Secretary of State talked about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u173	Look.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u174	I'm giving her the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u175	This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u176	Ma, it's about funding that you don't understand. What's your age?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u177	Mr. Bandelli, I took your word. I'll turn off your microphone. Thank you very much. Iva Dimic took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I really need to stop by and think so that the new tax is introduced under Article 128.a the new obligation is not true. 16 million is not from any contribution, this is a provision of the budget, we have budgets for 2022 and for 2023 we have a specific budget item for long-term care and within this provision is guaranteed and will provide these 16 million. You're just over saying that there's some taxes and what's going to be collected for long-term care. Once again, it is not true, we have an approved budget for two years, and then, of course, funding is also a source of European funding and other resources and I do not know why you share in such a law, which is so important to share us not least here in the hall and also people. It doesn't get anyone any good. I want long-term care to be accepted by all because it brings security and, of course, care to those who need it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u179	Dear Iva Dimic, you are also moving away from the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u181	Alenka Bratsek's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u182	I will now only read to Mrs Dimic to understand what the Secretary of State has said now, and I will quote that it will be clear from today: “In 2025, when long-term care will be carried out in all forms and in all environments, a special Law on Compulsory Insurance for Long-term Care” will be implemented. Is it clear now? Is it now clear that you are introducing a new contribution by means of this law today? But the law that the next Government will have to adopt will only decide the height. That's a fact, because I don't know why it's so hard to understand if you've decided to do so. You are introducing a new public financial contribution. We who come after you will just determine the height as necessary and that's all. But the economy needs to be told instead of the burdens you promise comes the burden, that's all. I don't know why we've been arguing about this for one or two hours now, that's a fact. Of course, this is hard to hear if you are talking about the necessary burden on the other side of the bill that is burdensome. Long-term care is necessary and I am sure this new contribution is needed only not in the way you are introducing it. Without who and without how wrong this is and this is our main criticism of this law from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The replica also has Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u184	I refer to the part where Mrs Dimic accuses us of misleading with regard to Article 126. We have repeated 100 times every person who said what this 128th article brings and welcomed that you listened to the opposition and provided these funds. Perhaps Mrs. Bratusek is too professional to simplify. When the opposition warned you that it was not okay that you overcame this impression on the users of the DSO you said a ha, then indeed and then you are in another law it is in the law we are talking about today, in the article we are talking about that is now paid from the budget. If you don't understand that this is all connected, then God help you. Since this amount is not foreseen in the budget. And just to think of it, yeah, okay, now that you've reminded us, we're going to pay this out of the budget, and we're even warning you that you don't have enough resources for a basic law without this amendment. If you don't believe us Members, I found it quickly now, the Community of Social Institutions is afraid that, in the end, according to the bag of money available, the rights will actually be violated, as they are now estimated to be missing 100 million euros per year for the proper implementation of the law. And on these already missing money, then you give extra money in the 128th article of the budget, and you presidents do not let us draw attention to the problem of funding, because you obviously do not understand that this is all connected. However, it is related to the introduction of a new contribution, as provided for in Article 132, from one point to another. And then this problem will obviously be solved. By then, you'll have left the other government to spray this money on me, and I don't know where it's too small for the existing articles. And that's got something to do with Article 128a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Madam Members, I would like you to respect Article 8 of the Code of Ethics and not be offensive to any. What anyone understands, what someone doesn't understand is not in your jurisdiction. Let's move on. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Article 128a Mr. Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u186	Thank you. At the outset, you have no right to comment on my implementation. But you can apply, Mr. Vice President, to the bench and then discuss with me if you want. Since this custom, which has now arisen for you to comment on, Ambassador Misha or anyone else, this business practice is not allowed. Masha, I'm sorry. Please don't violate the Rules of Procedure. That's the first thing. Second thing, I'm having a good time with all the present, including the secretary of state with the co-workers. And I'm glad to see you again. Thirdly, in this article, what is the problem of this Article. You're sharing money that's not there. Look at the budget for next year, because there is not a buyer of 100 million, 50 or a billion. For the next year, you've made a hole of money that's not there, two billion and a half. Of course, you don't care if the hole is 2 billion and a half, 3 billion or 4 billion. But that means bankruptcy of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't care. I don't know how you don't understand. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u187	Member of the Commission [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u188	I'm talking about this article. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u189	Article 128a [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u190	Article 128, Mr President, speaks of money which is provided additionally. And I'm telling you, this money in this article is simply not because it's just a two billion-and-a-half hole. And by the way, you know, when they're talking in serious coalitions, in serious governments about long-term care, by the way, look at the debate that was held in Slovenia in 2014, the European Commission organised, talked exclusively about sources and growth, 3, 4, 5%. And we have a hole in front of us. The hole isn't 750 million, but it's billions and more. The forecasts you have are quite different from those of Europe. They're not talking about 9.10%, they're talking about 14, 15, 20% of the population. And then what has already been said is talking about or increasing existing contributions, (b) or introducing additional taxes, (c) or you will have to pay from your own pocket, the dot. There's no Martians, there's no heaven, there's no hell to give that money. This money gives the citizen directly or indirectly, but it gives him a specific citizen. And that's how you fool people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I know I can't comment on anything. I have warned Mrs Masha Kociper, Mr jedan, only Article 8 of the Code on Members and nothing else. Let's move on. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Reich wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u192	True, the basic problem of this law is unknown sources of funding. We must be aware that the pension fund is empty, co-financed from the budget. The same thing happens with the medical checkout. European funds cannot finance wages and we must stop deceiving them. And as the Secretary of State has made clear, a new contribution is being introduced and it is responsible and fair for the government to tell to what extent and to what extent and who will pay it. Not that it's any of your business. And that's what we're discussing today. We are interested in how Article 128a will be implemented after 2025.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 129 and the amendments of the NSI, SDS and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate on this article. Since the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members to Article 136 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 153, we will discuss the amendments to these articles together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 136 and 153 and the two amendments of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members to these articles. Amendments to Articles 136 and 153 of the Rules of Procedure and amendments to Article 153 of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Rule 142 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Mr Primož Siter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for saying that. The law we have before us, says the government, is something we've been waiting for for 20 years. I am in the position that we have not waited for 20 years for the Long-Term Care Act, but we have waited too long for things to be done in the area of long-term care, so what is being done today in the healthcare sector on the other hand in social protection, it is an arrangement. And at least in this mandate, when I personally participate, we have addressed to the previous Government and to this Government a number of initiatives and initiatives and questions, in short, some parliamentary actions that would change the existing regime to amend the sub-legislative acts into an account so that they could serve either the elderly or long-term care workers. And the government came, which would, of course, be a solution or a patching of those most open wounds, and in any case would be a better solution than one, forgive me, respected secretary of state, squandering from this law, in which everyone in the civil society agrees that it is better than if it were not. The government likes to say, we understand the law is not perfect, but it's better than nothing. We have a different opinion in Levica. This marriage is worse than nothing and every day over and over again, every day comes to the surface of some of the findings in the text of the law, which confirms this conclusion or our position. On 3 December, the Institute of Health Insurance, which is an operational, field-time provider of this law on the ground, identified one very interesting inter-class property or measure under this Act. I don't know, at the committee hearing, the Director-General, Mrs Mlakar, who represented the position of the Health Insurance Institute, could have given more criticism or opinions if she had more time, of course. Unfortunately, this is where the criticism goes in the process of taking on the coalition side. The Institute itself received five minutes at the committee hearing to present its views. I might also present the speedboats with this conclusion that I am now serving you. The government has succeeded, therefore, in finding the institution, in this law on long-term care on a hidden and indirect basis, inter alia, to make a new contribution to compulsory health insurance in small print. Now, it is a contribution that will be paid by persons who have insured other family members, i.e. partners, spouses, parents and so on. These people, respected colleagues and colleagues, who will, both the law, which has 142nd Article, all that I now explain, be justified in the middle of the line, will be affected by 65,000 people. 65,000 people, insured persons, citizens and citizens at this time are, in this way, insured by their family members. The new cost for such a person or household will be €28. Now you can imagine. Let us first try to think about the situations we face. So one person who has a family member, a partner most often, or a parent who is protected by himself. These are mainly situations where one spouse in the family is employed and the other is not. For example, some younger family, where both partners are, I don't know, directly from college, one managed to get a job possible for a minimum wage, the other one not yet, and the first one made sure that the other has a mandatory health insurance arrangement through him or her. We may think that such a couple or such a young family does not bathe in money. He's digging into social distress, probably in some tenant's apartment, left to the harshness of the real estate market, maybe they're not lucky to have a family, a wider family helping them. But this is now a situation, a family situation that rules Janez Janša with a long-term care law that is supposed to be better for everyone and which is supposed to bring only solutions, throws an additional cost of EUR 28 per month. And this thing is just bad. This marriage, so, only brings trouble for everyone. He doesn't save, he doesn't hire any new ones in the necessary shortages of employees in nursing homes, he doesn't build, he doesn't build any new beds, he doesn't build any higher standards of care, he doesn't open up access to care for anyone. And now in the new conclusion of the Institute of Health Insurance, which has established this, I repeat, only days ago, because it was so vaguely written in the law, but probably in the field of compulsory health insurance there have the most employed professionals, now it brings the law to another socially weak group, so, I don't know, young families or families, where there is only one employee and so on. So that in the Group of the Left, we are respected colleagues and colleagues, we present one amendment following the findings of the Health Insurance Institute, which simply states that the second paragraph of this harmful article is simply deleted. Of course, we call on the government to start communicating things as they are, not laying low, not in secret, not in a sort of way. If you look at the law, let me remind you once again, the explanation of this article, the explanation of this issue, which I have now described, so the additional financial cost may already be socially threatened at the level of EUR 28 in a poor line of super-technical language, where it only relates to some other articles of some other laws. Not a word about content. So lay low and secretly a new cost for the weakest. This is, I think, that this concrete measure is the heart and core of everything that the Government in this law represents, opens the door, by granting concessions in the area of long-term care opens the door to multinationals, to capital and, on the other hand, to the “traf” in the domestic sense, the weakest. This is the Long-Terms Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The word is from Secretary of State, Alenka Forte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u196	Yes, thank you for your word. I must, of course, respond to the implementation of the Member, Mr Siter, and I explain that, in fact, many working groups participated in the formation of this law, both at the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the key, including the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, was crucial and was at numerous meetings and the dictation of proposal 142. Article is precisely the lecture of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, which is the Ministry of Health precisely 11. 8. 2020 at 2 p.m. 47, with the signature of the four representatives of the Health Insurance Office, proposed this Article. And maybe to a little wider explanation. This is the law proposed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, and I truly regret that the debate, when the representative was, was so short that she could have said something at the time and perhaps they did not even notice it, but now they are acting very opportunistically. That's right. 8. At 2.47 p.m., the Ministry of Health received this proposal by signing four of the Bureau's working group. What was their purpose, as they explained. With a view to increasing solidarity in fundraising by taking into account the ability of the population in terms of income and equitable access to health services, the proposal of the institution introduces the payment of contributions also for family members, insured persons and parents. For vulnerable persons who are materially at risk and are entitled to financial social assistance, compulsory health insurance services will continue to cover the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. So, once again, when you explain it, there's nothing subtly, everything was very [[?]] transparently, of course, we did not write in the law who prepared this, prepared the person who will be the holder of this insurance and exactly is a diction, to the point such as the proposal of the working group of the Health Insurance Institute. Of course, it is a matter of debate, perhaps other Members will discuss something about it, but I have told you, and we can also share this with you if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u197	Thank you very much. [[microphone off]] Replica [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u198	Dear Secretary of State, it's not a matter of debate. The main problem with this law is that the issue is not in the debate that there has been no debate and that is also pointed out by the Department of Health Insurance, which, once again, is the operational deadline of this law, is that operator on the ground who will have to implement the provisions of the Long-term Care Act. And now, this law, this is not the law proposed by the Department of Health Insurance, this is government law. You are the proposer, you are here on behalf of the proposer and the institution is very clear in its findings and now I will read it to you; “142. Article 1 of the Proposal for a Long-term Care Act also provides that compulsory health insurance providers must continue to pay from January 2022 a contribution to compulsory health insurance for a family member, spouse or parent. In 2021 this amounted to €27.66 per month. Although the proposal does not introduce any contribution to compulsory insurance, we believe that the intervention in this part is non-systematic and inconsistent with the general public." Where's the debate? Unless there was a debate with the contractor of this law. “The introduction of a new contribution to compulsory health insurance” – so the institution continues – “must be transparent, with a law setting out contributions to compulsory health insurance, the public concerned must be aware of it and a wider social consensus must be adopted.” [[…]] [[…]] In what law, respected colleagues, during the last year and nine, ten months, was any law here that came from the government, adopted or placed, in a broader social consensus? What marriage does the Government of anyone ask? It's absurd what's going on in the long-term supply law. No longer did we have a number of civil society and professionally interested public critics here, which was a public debate, which was a debate, which was broader in the indications of the consensus, took 5 minutes for everyone, including the Health Insurance Institute. It is also incomprehensible to say that the proposal of the Long-term Care Act introduces a new contribution to compulsory health insurance, so at the same time not for compulsory long-term care insurance and so on and so on. The criticism goes on, and it's not the only criticism from their address. They wrote more than 100 or 140 indents or points at which they are critical of this proposal mainly because the Government did not take into account any of them, any civil society, silver or other organisations that live on long-term care. Now, do you want to explain to me where the debate and the social consensus are?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Now let me first say that this amendment of the Left will be supported personally and also by the entire SMC Group, whether they support the law or not. Indeed, this 142nd Article of the Proposal for a Long-Term Care Act provides that compulsory health insurance providers should, as from January 2022, pay a compulsory contribution also to the insurance of their family members, i.e. the spouse or the parent. Certainly this contribution, in our view, does not fall under this Long-Term Care Act if we can talk about this at any time later in the Special Compulsory Insurance Act or, most certainly, in the Act on Contributions to the Health Insurance Obligation. For years and years, family members, close family members are a real man, a woman insured can be insured free of charge by her spouse, and I really don't know how this instigator happened, although the secretary of state has already told us clearly and loudly that this article was written by the Institute of Health Insurance itself and now reminds us of this weakness so that it is really strange. I would like to say, however, that we cannot really find out all of this because I would like to read this second paragraph of this article so that the public will also know how it has been said. Thus, it reads: "In Article 48, in the fourth indent of paragraph 2, the text and point 1 of Article 20 shall be added for the word of the law, and point 3 of Article 20, paragraph 1 shall be added for the word of the law." Now the Members really don't know everything that's hidden here, which is obviously what the Health Insurance Office has hidden from us, but thank you to the Left for paying attention to that. I will definitely support this amendment because I don't want to really make any extra contributions to these insurers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica? First Alice Jeraj, then you will be you. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Therefore, according to what I know, the representatives of the ZZ were actually involved in this article and it is therefore very inappropriate that it is written that the Government has been laying low and trying to hide something and so on. We will also support the amendment of the Left in the SDS Group, which means that 65,000 people will not be harmed, because we will preserve the solution now that this contribution is being paid for and will not be entitled to this right. I think it's right that it's just in time to realize that the thing wasn't set, but here it is, then I ask what the ZZZ was doing. First, to find out in two months that a solution they have proposed is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Then perhaps there is only thanks here for the other parliamentary groups that you have also recognized this issue and will support our amendment. Perhaps the government's appeal from a technical point of view to the explanation of this law is a real sting, it's really super technical. In one line of several articles, several laws, no substantive basis, no description of the problem as usual in legal matter, no description of the problem or description of the effects of this particular measure, just and only “technical”. Here my criticism of the government remains and again thanks the other parliamentary groups that you have also recognized this part as difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The debate was also attended by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u206	Yeah. In Article 142, let me say that we will also support this in the New Slovenia Group. Really, I'm going to say, there's a matter coming in from an institution that's supposed to provide some kind of accessibility or payment to those who are insured by another person. I think it is right that we have also seen this as a positive amendment on the side of the coalition and that in the past there have been too many injustices in the area of those who are insured after another person. Mojca's colleague pointed out, in particular, female women in rural farms, whose previous pension had been paid to them. And it is only right for them in this law to be granted these rights. By supporting this in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u207	Does anyone else want to discuss this article? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 146 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u208	I've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u209	Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u210	Presidents, you say we're done with the amendments. What about the amendments to Article 154 that we tabled in the LMSH? I'm waiting for this debate. That's why we reported a 30-minute debate, please. Where's your amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u211	Just a minute. In the list of amendments, we get to 146. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Just a minute. Article 128a was linked to the amendment to Article 154 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members. This was also read in Article 128.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u212	President, do you remember when you called me to discuss this, and I told you that I would discuss it at Article 154, and you said okay? Now you're selling me about the connection of the article. I'm sorry, that's not how I understood it, and I want to discuss the amendment we tabled. I have been waiting here for more than 10 a.m. just to discuss Article 154. And don't sell me if you don't even know how to organize a job up there. I was earlier with your secretary, who told me that I still have enough time to discuss Article 154. I'm asking you nicely, now let's stop being a fool. [[advertising from the hall]] Poembich, you give it a rest! Don't comment!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u213	Dear colleagues, please calm down. And let's be respectful.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u214	Calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u215	Mr. Ambassador. First time. When this article was discussed, I did not lead the session. And this article and this text were read in full. That's why I called you to discuss it, and you said you didn't have it. And we have concluded the debate on the amendments. And like I said, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u216	Vice President, that's amazing. Not only do you want to legislate, but you're still taking a complicated procedure illegally. At least I expected it from Tank, not you. [[…]] Not from you. I was so glad he got rid of it, that he was gone. And now I can't discuss Article 154 and the amendment, where we're essentially trying to solve what this government wants to do in 2024. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u217	Look, Mr. Member, I'm going to read your text again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u218	No, don't read to me. [[Off microphone — bench advertising]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u219	Discussion [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Look, [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Mr Member, as I have read, we have concluded our debate on the amendments to be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] by end of agenda item 3. [[adverts from benches]] I'm breaking up with this. [[adverts from benches]] this agenda item. [[adverts from benches]] We're moving to five. Period of the day - Third defense of the fart of the space management law, within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation of the bill, I give the floor [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Government representatives, Secretary [[…]] Bojan Purg, you have a problem. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Dear President! Proposal for a new Space Regulation Act, ZUREP-3, follows in full the structure of the applicable ZUREP-2 space regulation law applicable from 1. 6. 2018 and its purpose is to improve those areas which have proved necessary during the implementation of the law. Key amendments introduced by the new Space Regulation Act [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] both in the area of spatial planning, land policy measures and land policy funding [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u221	Dear colleagues, I ask for peace in the hall. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u222	The key changes introduced by the new Law on Spatial Planning will be in the area of spatial planning, land policy measures and the provision of land policy funding, all with a view to more efficient management of the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts at national and local level and more efficient management of land policy as key elements for achieving sustainable spatial development. In today's address, I must stress that the adoption and enforcement of the law by the end of this year is extremely important for 26 municipalities, which unfortunately have not yet adopted the municipal spatial plan. On 31 December 2021, that date was set by the current ZUREP-2 as the deadline for the old municipal acts adopted at the end of the 1980s. By this date, all 212 Slovene municipalities were expected to adopt their own spatial plan, since they had a possibility and obligation for 14 years, i.e. from the adoption of the spatial planning law in 2007. This is a large majority of what 185 Slovene municipalities have done, but unfortunately not 26 other municipalities. Therefore, in 26 municipalities after 1 January 2022 the basic spatial implementing act would no longer apply and consequently no spatial regulation would apply. In these municipalities there would no longer be any provision for the use of premises, i.e. buildings, agricultural, forest, water and other land, or for the construction of projects for building permits. The consequences of such a situation would be that no building permit could be issued in these 26 municipalities prior to the adoption of the municipal spatial plan. Therefore, since Article 43 of the current Construction Law provides that a building permit shall be issued if the construction complies with the provisions of the spatial implementing act, the proposed Construction Law 1 in conjunction with ZUREP3 shall issue an opinion on compliance with the spatial implementing act. In view of this reality, Article 295 of the ZUREP3 proposes that old spatial acts may be applied until the end of 2024 and until the municipality adopts a spatial plan. However, in order to be feasible, the new ZUREP3 Act must be implemented no later than 31 December 2021. in order to prepare all the key sub-laws after the adoption of the law and that all members of the municipality, the administrative unit, the regulators, spatial planners, designers and investors can prepare themselves for the implementation of the new law, in particular in connection with the new construction law, the entry into force of ZUREP3 is proposed for 1 June 2022. The Government proposes one harmonisation amendment to Article 66. This is necessary because the second reading of the adopted amendment led to the internal non-conformity of Article 64 of the bill. The adoption of the amendment to Article 64 led to the restructuring and renumbering of the paragraphs in this Article. For this reason, the reference to the right Article 64 should be corrected in Article 66. [[Incomprehensible]] Let me now briefly introduce some of the new developments that will be introduced by the Law on the Regulation of Space 3. The new law provides a project approach to the adoption of spatial acts. The State Spatial Plans will set up a project group so that the work will be carried out simultaneously between all sectors, the procedures for planning interventions into the space and the procedures for obtaining the building permit will run continuously in some cases in parallel. The environmental impact assessment process and the procedure for the preparation of spatial implementing acts will be integrated for both state and municipal spatial acts, as well as for which spatial acts must be subject to a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and for which they do not. Add a new partial joint procedure allowing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, please... [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u224	an additional method of simultaneous preparation of State spatial acts. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u225	Come on, time's up. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u226	And the issue of a complete permit. Procedural facilitations shall be established for the preparation of municipal spatial plans, the municipal detailed spatial plans and the settlement and landscape regulation decision. Better Article Systematicity Established [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u227	Please finish. Time's up a long time ago. You've been in thin air for a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u228	Do I read it to the end? Three items only.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u229	Please finish as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u230	Better Article Systematics for Building Land Equipment and a clearer definition of equipped land and self-sustainment have been established. A better system of articles on municipal contribution is established, a more detailed definition of cases where doses of municipal contribution occur and the harmonisation of the dose of municipal contribution to the construction law in such a way that clearly defined obligations for the payment of municipal contributions are also for black builders. All municipal decisions for a municipal contribution made under ZUREP2 remain in force, while municipal decisions adopted under older laws are repealed. However, the municipalities are allowed. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u231	I'm warning you again, time has passed. Let's finish up nicely, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u232	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u233	Please. Following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and before that, there is a procedural Mr Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, from the point of view of this meeting, this meeting is now illegal. As far as the previous point in the 4th reading of the Long-Term Care Act is concerned, I do not know if this has become a practice at the time of this government, but the debates of opposition members who are not the president of love are simply extinguished as if they were on the cassette show and we are pressing a stop. One fine example of this was seen on Friday on the Education Committee. I hope that this practice will not happen again, but today we have seen very similar practices under your presidency, and your predecessor has also taken the word away from the first debater by the opposition and then to every debater, at least after one of each opposition delegation. And now we have a super problematic law ahead of us that doesn't regulate what it promises to regulate. He's not building new homes, he's not hiring new ones, he's privatizing long-term care. And it got stuck in a key article — the wages of employees in homes for the elderly. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u235	Member of the Commission [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u236	Let me finish. I've got enough time on my watch. Let me make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u237	Mr. Member, look. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u238	Allow me to submit a motion of procedure. I have to put it in context.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u239	Stick to the content on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u240	I'm sticking to the content. I hold to the content, Mr President-respected. Please don't be Joze Tank. I think you can do better. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] And now so. You have broken off the Long-Terms Act. He wanted to discuss the amendment he had signed, but he didn't have the opportunity. With the excuse that the National Assembly had previously taken note of your predecessor's decision to discuss Article 128. What was the procedural chaos of Article 128 when Jože Tanko was held, we know. Alenki Bratušek finally took away the word. Please do not continue such practices. I don't know what we can do procedurally now. You started off by force with the next point, you gave the government's representative seven minutes to explain yourself. It became Texas. There's no tail or head here. It sucks in here. We can throw the rules out the window. Please get in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u241	Dear Mr. Siter, look. You used a procedural proposal because I did not get any suggestions on how to conduct the meeting. And because I was challenged. Those two articles were put to the debate together. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups, as I said. The position will be presented by the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats and Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In particular, the proposal for a Space Regulation Act builds on the existing principles of space regulation as already laid down in the existing law. Following a proposal for a law, the state rules on the regulation of premises shall be laid down in two places, namely, by incorporating the basic rules in this proposal of the law. Other rules will be adopted by government regulations. As a guiding rule, cooperation and coordination of interests between the State, its space regulators and the municipalities have been established. In any event, the draft law maintains the rule of impact of a single spatial decision on the economy, society and the environment. Among the rules, the law also provides for the rational use of space, the specificity of spatial planning for certain restricted areas and the direction of the development of settlements. The proposal clearly states that a comprehensive environmental impact assessment should always be carried out for strategic spatial acts. The proposal for a law substantially builds up the State Spatial Planning System by allowing for a flexible procedure that ends either with the adoption of a State Spatial Plan Regulation or during a joint planning and authorisation procedure with the issue of a comprehensive permit and the simultaneous adoption of a State Spatial Planning Regulation. The complete authorisation shall, however, constitute a building permit and environmental consent. The municipal spatial plan as such remains. It still sets out the area of settlements, the regulatory area of settlements and areas for long-term settlement expansion. However, some changes are made to its preparation procedure. Emphasis is placed on the analysis of the state of space, the analysis of initiatives and the development of solutions in cooperation with the public in the preparation of the draft municipal spatial plan. In New Slovenia, however, we find it particularly important that the bill provides for the establishment of a spatial information system as a public web portal through which certain activities will be carried out in real spatial acts with the first, in particular, public publication and investment of building permits. Finally, a set of powers of the municipal inspectorate is being expanded, which will oversee not only the construction of simple buildings but also the compatibility of the conduct of non-construction operations with directly applied basic rules on the regulation of premises. It should be donated that both the construction law and the Law on the regulation of premises have a lot of support for the professional public. However, disagreement with the law has been expressed by the Chamber of Architecture, which has so far played a decisive role in the production of project documentation. In this area, however, the new law establishes the equality of all engineering professions involved in the production of project documentation, which means that the project manager will determine the transferee under the conditions set by the investor. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support in the third reading the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups amending Article 343 in order to bring this law into force on 31 December 2021 as the proposal for a law in Article 295 extends the validity of the old municipal spatial acts until 31 December 2021. 12. 2024. This solution is extremely important for 26 municipalities that have not yet adopted municipal, spatial plans and, of course, for their inhabitants and investors who intend to build in these municipalities. Of course, Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will also unanimously support both the amendment and, of course, the Law on the regulation of space in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! We have before us the Space Regulation Act, which will serve as a cover document for the area of spatial planning, because of the material's substantive linkage, it is important that the amendments to this Act be dealt with together with the proposal for a construction law. The proposal for a Space Regulation Act introduces a project approach to the adoption of spatial acts. Among the legal innovations we can see a change that will give new direction to the establishment of a project group in state spatial plans in a way that will take place at the same time between all professions. It is important to stress that both the procedures for obtaining a building permit and the procedures for planning interventions into the premises will move more rapidly in some cases even at the same time. In addition, the environmental impact assessment process and the procedure for the preparation of spatial implementing acts will be newly integrated for spatial acts at both municipal and national levels. The new legislation therefore pursues the objective of allowing the planned building project to develop normally at the time of its design on the acquisition of the building permit and construction, as well as throughout its existence and future use. In order to achieve this objective, it must first be ensured that the entire duration of the existence and use of the building will have the possibility of using the land or building plot that will be necessary for the efficient regular use of the facility. The proposed law also regulates the competences of certain institutions, so, under the new Law on the regulation of premises and no longer the building law, the person who will decide on the competent institution to assess the appropriateness of the planned placement of the facility. This will be the municipality in the area under consideration. The municipality will therefore continue to assess whether the facility complies with the spatial implementing acts and other rules applicable in its territory. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are working to simplify and accelerate the bureaucratic procedures introduced by the amendments to the two proposals of the law, the construction law and the law on the regulation of space today. The law is seen as an upgrade to strategic spatial planning and will also have a positive impact on the use of space, on the development of building land, and ultimately on the efficiency of land management. On the basis of the above facts, we will support the proposal for a law on the regulation of the premises in the Strategy Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u245	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u246	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! For the customer SAB, smart sustainable development is one important component, which represents the greatest Slovenian advantage and opportunity. It will maintain a healthy environment and clean drinking water in Slovenia. For all of this, we need developed settlements and sustainable infrastructure that will allow for a high quality of life for all. We need to accelerate the development of green industry and green jobs. We need economic progress and development to create prosperity for all. Today, the third is before us to consider the law on the regulation of premises prepared by the Government, which complements the existing one. The law sets out the objectives, principles and rules for the regulation of space, the actors active in this field, the types of spatial acts, their content, their mutual dispersion, the procedures for their preparation, adoption and implementation, and the joint planning and authorisation process. It also lays down spatial measures, instruments and measures of land policy and regulates the monitoring of the situation in the space, the operation of the spatial information system and the issuance of certificates in the field of space regulation. The proposal complements the existing law with the aim of digitising data and debirocraticising processes in order to ensure their haste and, above all, to ensure effective management of the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts and the implementation of land policy. The time for the preparation of municipal spatial plans and municipal detailed spatial plans should be halved, according to the Minister, by a new law. Today they are also 10 years old and older. For national and municipal spatial acts, the environmental impact assessment process and the procedure for the preparation of spatial implementing acts will be integrated. In addition, some stakeholders cautioned and wondered whether the idea of integrating the preparation of spatially implementing acts would facilitate and speed up or complicate and slow down. The solutions in the draft law largely summarise existing arrangements. One of the major innovations introduced by the law in 2017 is special judicial protection against spatial implementing acts. In particular, the article concerning judicial protection received the most comments at the Ministry of Public Affairs during the public hearing. Many have warned that no one will be able to stop investors from building environmentally harmful buildings before they are built. The Ministry of Education is responsible for the preparation of spatial acts by a number of spatial regulators, employers and various professions and civil society, which is the guardian. In the SAB party, we are therefore aware that we need to coordinate in space the needs of all the participants, for which we must in particular ensure effective, high-quality, transparent decision-making and spatial placement procedures. It is only in this way that space regulation will become a service of the people, and only in this way will it address the needs of citizens and citizens in an up-to-date manner. The State must provide a strong and well-developed digitalised public e-government and e-services, while maintaining them in a classic way. Nevertheless, when we talk about space, we must listen with particular attention to the voice of civil associations and groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u247	Thank you, too. The position of the Desus Group will be moved by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u248	Hall of honor, vice president. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the bill, which is now on our benches in the context of the third reading, has been to determine the improvements that have proved necessary in practice since the implementation of the law. The key changes introduced by the new Law on Spatial Planning relate thus to the area of spatial planning, land policy measures and the provision of land policy funding. The changes lead to more efficient management of the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts both at national and local level and more effective management of land policy. The amendments establish secret spatial development. The new law also introduces a project approach to the adoption of spatial acts with the aim of making the process more efficient, without duplication, without unnecessary time constraints and, therefore, as short and effective as possible. In the case of State spatial plans, a project group will be set up, work will be carried out simultaneously between all professions, procedures for planning interventions into the premises and procedures for obtaining the building permit will run continuously and in some cases parallel. The bill pursues the objective of de-birocraticisation and digitisation of data and processes. The e-plan and e-building procedures will be simplified as they will be able to obtain and deliver all the necessary documentation in one place, which is undoubtedly welcome. The objective is therefore a coherent, freely accessible and reliable spatial dataset. We estimate that this is an important step forward in the area of spatial regulation, so in the Desus Group we will also support the proposal of the Law on the regulation of space in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u250	Your Honor! The setting up of a room for settlement regulation strongly defines social development on the one hand and, on the other hand, interventions to space affect sustainable development. With regard to the Green European Agreement, Slovenia committed itself to climate neutrality and resilience to climate change on the basis of sustainable development in its resolution on a long-term climate strategy by 2050. It deals effectively with energy and natural resources based on nature conservation, circular economy, renewable and low-carbon energy sources and sustainable mobility. The Minister argues that the new law brings significant changes in spatial planning of land policy and more effective preparation of spatial acts. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we do not oppose the changes, but we regret that the Minister has given up the possibility to include in the law the principles of sustainable development and the commitment of the resolution on a long-term climate strategy. The Ministry of Environment and Space is key to balancing environmental protection with development, which must not be mutually excluded. The new law should in no way promote spatial interventions that increase personal and social costs and that move Slovenia away from achieving climate neutrality. We have learned enough about the Minister's views and ways of working to feel the urgency and obligation to point out that interference in a space in democratic societies must enable appropriate public participation. The space must be regulated with the people living in this space. Furthermore, cooperation by both the laziness and the professional public can affect the design of quality solutions to the identity of this space and the sense of connection with it. We are concerned that the centralisation of decision-making and the exclusion of the public will cause exactly the opposite effects of those they represent to us, and therefore we regret that the government coalition does not support the amendments proposed to achieve the objectives set. This applies in particular to the non-admission of the amendment to Article 335. Why? Since the introduction of a specific site verification for the purpose of legalisation allows the production of a spatial document for retro-building to determine all the spatial conditions that illegal construction requires to justify legalisation. The building permit at all costs, despite the initial inadmissibility of spatial interference, gives comfort to those who violate spatial acts and building regulations and open doors to corruption hide-and-seeks, pawnshops and reward houses. Black construction is a lot of crime in space. The minister's trying to get the right to say spatial pardons. Why? But it's not hard to figure out. With this law, the responsibility for legalisation will be legally presented to decision makers, and some of our members will abstain from voting alone on the basis of my own almost 30-year urban practice. Because of the lack of acceptance of the amendments and more, because of the awareness of what the minister wants to drag into without us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The position of the Polish Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u252	Good afternoon. The law should be the one who should dictate certain conduct to citizens, make it easier for us to do a lot of things and give us the power and permission to make a decision. For so-called ordinary citizens, most of the laws are incomprehensible and quickly lost in professional terms. If this story is taken into account by lawyers who then explain for five minutes the law’s glory in such a different way that an even greater confusion arises, it is understandable that laws are just texts that can be misused. The Space Regulation Act does not face such a problem, but is so specifically written that officials who should make sure that it is used in practice have not yet done so. Perhaps we should radically change the work so far and introduce a few new developments that would help anyone to improve the current complexity of citizens when they want to build, support or change. Among other things, the bill extends the terms of the law itself and imposes novelties, although the original law has not yet come to life in practice. Nevertheless, the law provides for at least one good thing and one very controversial one. Article 35 provides for restrictions on advertising outside the premises. On agricultural, forestry and water land it prohibits the installation of permanent and temporary facilities or objects for advertising. If you visit the rural environment, it is sometimes quite amazing where the advertising boards are located. The weakness of the law lies in the ability of NGOs to conduct judicial proceedings. In this way, the tendering procedures will be delayed, the projects will stop and the damage will be for both the economy and the people who would benefit from the project. We must not forget that such procedures are often conducted primarily on the grounds of speculation, and the court has no leverage to allow the party which initiates such proceedings to punish in any way. I believe that there should be reasonable criteria which a non-governmental organisation can even bring before a court. But perhaps the next novel will change this, and by then we will even start implementing the ideas of the original law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u254	Vice President, thank you for your word. There has been a lot of debate in the debate so far on the Law on Spatial Planning. The main proponent of the government, the ministry, is to approach people with the proposed law. The principle of the law is to ensure, through sustainable spatial development, the quality of life, the fair, rational and efficient use of spaces, spatial potentials, land and facilities, the accessibility of services of social and economic importance, and the coordination and complementary placement in activities in space. In particular, this law aims to meet the needs of the current generation, while not jeopardising the needs of future generations and taking into account the expected impacts of climate change and ensuring adaptation. The proposed Law on Space Regulation makes it possible to implement the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and brings several directives into Slovenia's legal order and the proposal for a law is consistent with them. In the Law on the regulation of premises itself, it is intended to link the local, regional and national level in the area of spatial planning, furniture and real estate management. Now we have numerically valid forms. [[?]] spatial plans at national and municipal level of confusion. The proposed law fundamentally changes the combined state spatial planning process and the issue of a comprehensive permit, including the construction permit of buildings with special environmental impacts. The law itself also takes account of climate change, as the principle of sustainable space management is complemented and spatial arrangements need to be planned in a way that is climate-safe and neutral. The law itself brings roofing [[?]] , a clear and transparent system of spatial acts, upgrade of spatial strategic planning, establishment of proper governance, upgrading of OPR preparation processes, modernisation of land policy measures, the possibility of altering dedicated use by monitoring the OPPN, and many other objectives, with a view to demobilising procedures, and digitising data and processes. The Law also provides relief for the congregations themselves. For all of this, we will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. The Law on the Regulation of Space, together with the Construction Law, represents the mirror of our society in dealing with limited goods, such as space and the natural environment. As early as yesterday, the agreed relationship between interventions and space protection can be tested tomorrow in the face of increasing technological development and various interests in interfering with space. It is therefore extremely important that an advanced country has a clear vision of the prudent and rational handling of space, which is firstly consistent with strict environmental standards, to continue to try to pursue, to the greatest extent, its original and environmentally-aware practices in space interventions and, most importantly, to understand the long-term public interest and to support it in dealing with the immediate private interests. One of the most advanced environmental policies is therefore the integration of people, professionals and civil society, not only as statisticians, but also actively involved in environmental and spatial issues, and the development of spatial development strategies in Slovenia. In the LMŠ, we have been particularly careful in the framework of the Law on Spatial Planning to upgrade the instrument of public benefit. We have always warned that this is an extreme institution and that before the government's arbitral decision on the public benefits that are prevailing over another public benefit, all the conditions, including open dedication to the professional and civil society, must be clearly exhausted. I have received assurances from the Minister that there are no shortcuts that would bypass the already valid precautionary principles using the instrument of predominance of public benefit. At the same time, it is important to stress that there is still much work to be done in the future to empower the bodies in the composition of the consultative and project bodies at the Ministry of Environment and Space and to send them to the professional and civil society. This will certainly help to create a clear and sovereign state of the Ministry of Environment and Space in relation to interests at the state level as a private level. In the LMŠ, we understand the intention to reduce and rationalise spatial planning procedures by amending the law on space regulation, or also to achieve more effective management of the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts both at national and local level, and to introduce a project approach to the adoption of spatial acts with the aim of avoiding unnecessary time barriers. However, it remains doubtful today that there is sufficient consideration for the opinions of some more visible Slovenian municipalities, which are directly concerned by the legislation and are planning new powers at national and local level. We would expect such a comprehensive law, of course, after a lengthy process of adoption, to come before Members to a large extent in coordination with local communities, which are a key moment of spatial development in Slovenia. To a lesser extent, the law also introduces positive changes in spatial planning and the exploitation of renewable energy sources, but there are many challenges ahead of us to adapt spatial planning to the consequences and adaptation to climate change. In the LMŠ, we have also pointed out the extreme pollution of the natural environment with advertising facilities, and we regret that not only did the amendment of part of the opposition not only prohibit advertising on farms, forest and water lands, but it also removed existing ones, which have multiplied excessively because of the loosely existing legislation. However, with the amendment proposed in the LMŠ together with the part of the opposition, we have succeeded in shortening the transitional period until the entry into force of the advertising ban on certain lands outside the settlements. We believe that due to the current problem, two years after the law is in force, there is still sufficient reasonable time in which the municipalities will be able to adapt their spatial acts to new restrictions on advertising in the natural environment. In LMŠ, we will not object to the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The environment, the cultured environment, if you want that wild natural is less, and somehow we got the space with responsibilities from our grandchildren and grandchildren, those who are already born and those who are still coming. We are still aware of this in social democracy. As this twin of laws has already been mentioned, ZUREP and the construction law are, of course, somewhat underlying with environmental climate challenges. At the same time, as a colleague who spoke before me about some 27 years of practice in space, I can say that what you may even think naively well-intentionally as some way of de-de-barcation will probably mean in practice sooner that we will have some sort of leaked situation and then we will deal with it back. At the same time, of course, all the citizens who are quoted as being stupid taxpayers, who we did not build as someone behind me in black, ask ourselves if we are stupid, probably not. You know, the whole story forgets something without some serious education about the meaning of space, the meaning of the environment, without finally getting urbanism after 30 years, finally getting regional spatial planning, it will be because it's only some kind of casino in a slightly different way. However, I will not speak twice, ZUREP may be less contentious, although it has some contentious issues, but the construction law has been largely written out as a lobbyist, badly written. If that SMC proposal was then more likely to be against architects, it is now too much of a tendency towards any major design teams, and that is why we will still have a headache and, you know, no signing contracts with Google or anything that will make a difference, or until we move things around in our heads. I would like the next composition of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space to be similar to that of the English Parliament of the Committee on this subject to some serious education, so that Members know in fact what difficult matters we are deciding or co-decision on, not that those in the Government are going to buy flags how great this is going to be, and those in the opposition may sometimes be a little critical over it. In view of the many open questions raised in both laws, the Social Democrats will not be supported and we will vote against them in a more controversial law. However, I would like to see some of the next two members of Parliament and the Social Democrats want this to happen to us, which is what one of the Scandinavian countries, which you are even mentioning in this paper, has. Currently, they have the best spatial law in the world, which is one roof law, a common and one very high-quality law on so-called PSC, where, of course, it is very clearly defined and knows why individual opinions are needed. And then, of course, more red tape, more professional bureaucracy, more responsible bureaucracy in the way of silver service. We have a lot of work to do, and we hope a lot smarter in the next composition of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u259	Thank you, too. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 343 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded our debate on an amendment in which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY — TO THE THIRDLY PROPOSAL OF BUILDING LEGISLATION IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Bojan Purg, the Secretary of State. You have five minutes. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u260	Thank you. The proposal for a new Construction Law, which is being examined by the National Assembly for the third time today, aims to reduce administrative burdens and accelerate sustainable economic development in Slovenia. As has already been highlighted by the structure following the applicable law applicable since mid-2018. Renovation shall build on the procedures in place so far. On the basis of identified shortcomings, errors, existing regulatory solutions are being corrected and complemented, so that construction procedures can be implemented more quickly and efficiently in the same way as ensuring the protection of public interests and the legal safety of all participants in construction. As with the Law on the Regulation of Space, the text of the Construction Law continues with the process of digitisation of data, the services of procedures and the monitoring of implementation, so that this new reality is already taken into account. In the third reading, two amendments to the preliminary provision of the Construction Law are proposed. 156. Article 156 proposes an amendment to delete paragraphs 2 and 3 of the first paragraph as no longer required since new rules on low voltage requirements for buildings and a regulation on the protection of buildings against the operation of lightning have been published in the Official Journal and therefore the extension of the provisions of those Articles makes no sense. The second proposed amendment binds to Article 159 and the amendment proposes that the law enters into force on 31 December 2021 and that it enters into force on 1 June 2022, ensuring that the Law on the Regulation of Space and Construction Law enters into force at the same time. As with the Space Regulation Act, the date of application is postponed to June 1st, giving all participants sufficient time to learn, prepare for, prepare for, and prepare for, the Government and the Ministry the time to prepare the necessary sub-laws, which are being monitored by the new construction law and without which the system cannot function. If the content of Article 5 as confirmed by the amendment in the second reading of the draft law at the 27th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly remains unchanged, internal non-compliance with the law has been established and the Government will prepare and table a harmonisation amendment in this case. In the first indent of Article 91, a part of the text other than the certificate referred to in the fourth indent of Article 76(1) of this Act must be deleted. The new regulation provides that, when an incomplete application has been made since the beginning of the construction of the measure, the construction inspector and the reference to an exception would be linked to the provision of the municipal contribution in the wrong way, since the construction inspector himself is obliged to find that the application for the start of the construction was not made and thus is not the task of the municipal inspector, which was governed by the deleted text. Allow me to recapture the key improvements in the construction law before the debate. The new Proposal for a Construction Law regulates procedures relating to the enforcement decision following the Constitutional Court decision so-called right to respect at home. The law seeks to reduce friction between architects and engineers and provides for the participation of all relevant experts at all stages. The administrative authorities will take into account the opinions of the competent authorities and organisations acting as lessors in the procedure, which shall also apply to the assessment of the conformity of construction with the spatial acts where the lessor is the municipality. The time for issuing the building permit is expected to be shorter because the administrative unit no longer checks the substantive compliance with the spatial act, but is now being carried out by the municipality. The law re-enables the possibility for the investor to start building on his own responsibility after the completion of the building permit when it comes to non-environmental objects. Entrepreneurs will be able to place temporary storage facilities in their yard for up to three years in addition to existing facilities. It introduces a smaller reconstruction, bridging the gap between maintenance and reconstruction, including permits, with the participation of an authorised construction expert. The dose of the municipal contribution shall be carried out after the building permit has been obtained before the start of the construction. This provision shall not apply immediately, but after the establishment of electronic commerce with the year 2024. Inspection of unsolicited facilities is also carried out by municipal inspections, allowing for the acquisition of a user-friendly permit for one-house houses in an easier and cheaper way, as no proof of the reliability of the facility is required. The use permit for one apartment building can also be obtained by one that does not have the final packaging, the time to complete the facade is three years. Decisions relating to legalisation shall be maintained and partially supplemented; a novelty shall be a provision allowing for the initiation of the procedure for the issue of a building permit without supporting evidence of the right to construction for infrastructure facilities. The provisions relating to the integrated building permit are supplemented, and the procedure for predominance of the public benefit in these cases is more appropriate. The law also provides that NGOs operating in the field of environmental protection and nature conservation, as well as civil initiatives, are party to the rights procedure provided for in this law. Directive on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment and the Aarhus Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u262	Thank you again for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The area of construction of buildings is governed by the Construction Law, which began to apply in 2018. The law is inseparably linked to space legislation and therefore the shortcomings of spatial legislation are necessarily reflected in the area of construction. Shortly after the adoption of the construction law, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that the two articles of the previous building law were unconstitutional and ordered that the National Assembly should abolish the constitutionality found. Construction law which entered into force 1. 6. Unfortunately, this unconstitutionality has not been eliminated, so we now have a law on the table that solves this problem. Thus, one of the main solutions to the proposal for a new construction law is that before the removal of an illegal facility, which represents a home to a competent court, it will decide on the proportionality of interference with the right to respect at home. Only if the court finds that this is not a home will the competent inspector be able to execute it is the removal of an illegal facility. Otherwise, the inspector will have to postpone the removal measure for five years, following a decision of the Constitutional Court. In October 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Space on the implementation of the new spatial and building legislation carried out a survey to the professional and general public. The profession and many stakeholders in the regulation of the premises have pointed out certain shortcomings in the construction law, which the new proposal for a law eliminates. Thus, the law introduces the concept of a smaller reconstruction that will shift the gap between the maintenance works and the reconstruction and in which work can only be carried out on the basis of the application of the start of construction. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the expansion of temporary facilities to facilities in the event of emergencies and storage facilities to complement existing activities within industrial and transport areas. In the event of natural disasters, for example, in the event of a fire, it is sufficient only to report the start of construction for works necessary to reduce or remedy the consequences of natural and other natural disasters. In order to shorten the licensing procedures, it is important in the law to provide for in the case of silence the applicant’s opinion to determine the possibility that the administrative authority may decide itself in the same manner as the law already determines in the case of non-coordinated cases. The procedure for issuing the building permit for the infrastructure of the facilities will also be followed up in the event that the supporting evidence of the right to build is not included in the application. However, since proof of the right to build a condition for the issue of a building permit, evidence will have to be submitted before the issue of a building permit. In any event, this change goes against the investor to obtain a building permit as soon as possible. This is particularly important for projects co-financed by European funds. The payment of the municipal contribution will no longer be conditional on the issue of the building permit. This obligation will be fulfilled before the start of the construction application itself, and the investor will attach proof that the settlement obligations regarding the payment of the municipal contribution are settled. Of course, this will only start to apply once the e-building system is in place. The advantage of this change is that it will be possible for the investor to obtain loans for the purpose of paying the municipal contribution on the basis of the building permit obtained. It is true, however, that by this payment of the municipal contribution the municipalities will receive later than before, but this delay should be minimal in the expected shorter process of obtaining the building permit. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats in the third reading will unanimously support both amendments of the coalition, which are not of a substantive nature and of course the construction law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. It will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a construction law that optimizes certain inefficiencies in the process of issuing building permits, while systematically regulating and ordering ways of placing objects in our premises. The proposed legal provisions introduce some changes aimed at simplifying the procedures for obtaining a building permit. These changes will, inter alia, simplify the way towards obtaining the full role provision, regulate both the process of dealing with foreign participants and their integration into procedures, and re-organise the possibility of building after final construction authorisation. We are confident that the procedure for obtaining a building permit will be much faster and more effective after the changes have been introduced. In the past, some solutions in practice have proved unnecessary or even unduly restrictive, which in the final stage had a negative impact on the implementation of a number of projects. By implementing the proposed law, investors will be allowed to start construction before the issue of a legal building permit. This will, of course, only apply to buildings that will have no environmental impact. However, the possibility of carrying out a smaller reconstruction is also being introduced. For all reconstructions so far it has been necessary to obtain a building permit, and after amending the legislation it will be for smaller reconstructions, so it will no longer be mandatory. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are working to simplify and accelerate the bureaucratic procedures introduced by the novels of the two laws under consideration through administrative burdens. We also expect that changes will have an impact on the shortening of the building permit procedure due to the regulation of the area of conformity assessment of the planned construction with the provisions of the spatial implementing act. Following this new coherence, the administrative unit will no longer be judged as it has been so far, but the opinion of the municipalities will be followed and taken into account. It makes sense that the application of the Regulation is interpreted by the one who has adopted it. One of the main changes in the construction law is due to the weighing between public interest, which dictates the removal of an illegally built building and the right to respect at home. We are aware of the necessity of amendments to the legislation followed by the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This, in its explanation, stressed that an illegally constructed facility should not be removed if there are clear circumstances that would render an infringement of the right to respect a person’s home disproportionate. The Court will therefore assess whether the damage caused by the loss of a home is greater than the usurpation of the premises. In the event that the court finds disproportionate interference with the right to respect at home, the enforcement of the measures will therefore be postponed. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are making every effort to ensure that legislation is tailor-made to the measure of people and the economy. At the same time, however, it seems extremely important that we maintain high standards of environmental protection that we cannot afford new compensation at the expense of the surroundings we live in. These changes in marriage, in our view, are without prejudice to this relationship. On the basis of these facts, we will support the proposal of the construction law in the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. He will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u266	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Construction is a sector that concerns virtually every one of us. We are building buildings to meet basic human and social needs either after education, after education, travel, energy, clean drinking water, protection and protection of the environment and health, and finally by adapting to the consequences of climate change. It is right that the interests of people, societies and economies, which are as diverse and diverse as the diverse and many stakeholders, are regulated accordingly, and that is why the law before us regulates the conditions for the construction of buildings and other issues related to the construction of buildings. In Slovenia they have a very common culture of amending and supplementing construction legislation. ZGO-1 was adopted in 2004 and received 16 additions. The existing construction law was adopted in 2018. Such frequent changes and additions to the system law as we have seen in Slovenia in developed countries are not common, as it is a law that should normally be amended or adopted for 10 or even 20 years, in order to enforce and domestically apply in space and profession. According to the proposer, the proposed law is based on the existing law and does not interfere radically with it but solves certain problems and relieves red tape. The fact is, therefore, that the existing law in force has significantly reduced the scope of the documentation required to obtain a building permit. And the procedure itself has deteriorated to administrative. At the same time, it has moved substantive planning and design into the implementation project phase. There is nothing wrong with this simple and unwelcome objects. Of course, the existing solution is not particularly good when we are dealing with complex objects then it is necessary to conceptualize the object in substance and therefore there is a stage when it is possible to address in a timely and cost-free manner the needs, changes and problems of delay in the performance phase, which brings problems and unforeseeable costs as a rule. As problematic and undefined, the term predominant profession in relation to the exclusive right of project management has proved to be. The term was subsequently defined by the former Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment and the area by letter. This reference was made to the statistical classification of the United Nations Statistical Office, which is not intended to do so. In the meantime, the second Ministry, the Ministry of Public Administration, repealed the same letter with instructions and interpretation. We have a law before us that simplifies the procedures for building buildings and putting them into space. Under non-problem conditions, a building permit will be obtained within 30 days of the instruction period in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, which deals with the handling through the State's e-space portal and e-building, in particular for facilities that are located and built under an integrated procedure. The acquisition of an usable permit for one-house houses will be simplified. This building, or facade, will thus not be a condition. According to the new report, the investor will be able to take his own responsibility for the construction time after the completion of the construction permit when the necessary environmental assessment of the municipal contribution will only be paid at the beginning of the construction. For the economy, redefining a set of temporary facilities is important. This will allow the extension to the facilities, which means that entrepreneurs will be able to set up warehouses for a period of three years in addition to existing facilities and subsequently obtain a building permit if necessary. However, a lot of controversy was caused by the definition of longer-lasting objects in public. This definition already exists in the existing law. On the proposal of one of the professional chambers, the new law cuts out the year of date 1. 1. 1998 presented at 1. 1. 2004 In doing so, the proposed law eliminates the conflict of professions caused by the existing law. Different equal professions gathered in the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia and the Chamber of Architecture and Space are sent together to determine the technical content, scope and type of project documentation for individual design stages. In the SAB Group and as an authorised construction engineer, I believe that the proposed law addresses a number of challenges facing stakeholders. That's why we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak is next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a construction law, which we are considering today in the context of the third reading, brings quite a few important innovations that address the various stages of construction aimed at simplifying procedures, speeding up the resolution of applications and the envisaged e-commerce. The solutions addressed by the law will make it easier for investors to get to the construction and utility permits and legalisation, and smaller reconstructions will be easier to do, which will no longer be required by the new building permit. The amendments also relate to the payment of the municipal contribution, where an amendment was adopted in the context of the second reading, stipulating that proof of the municipal contribution paid must become a mandatory part of the documentation to be annexed to the declaration of initiation. The bill further simplifies recovery in the event of a natural disaster, such as a fire that severely affects the building and must be restored to its original state as soon as possible. In these cases, it will be sufficient, in the light of new developments, to begin the construction process, which is, of course, extremely important from a practical point of view. All these innovations bring better transparency, hastening procedures and going against both citizens in the construction of individual houses and all other investors. At the same time, the legal basis for the operation and management of e-building procedures is also established. Among other things, the transition to a digitalised way of doing business brings the connectivity of bases and much less the acquisition of documentation for an individual because it is most welcome. If digitisation has some inadequacies in society, we can see that in the field of transparency and rapid data and documentation exchange is extremely useful. It is a shame, of course, that we are somewhat lagging behind in this area and we regret the delay in the introduction of electronic commerce. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the vital importance of effective construction and spatial legislation. The proposal for a construction law will also be supported in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branislav Rajić. He will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u270	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The legislation in the area of building and regulating the premises was last updated four years ago and started to be used three years ago. The government and the premises of the competent minister state that today's bill introduces the digitisation of administrative procedures in the area of construction, promises to issue building permits following a reduced procedure, within 30 days, on administrative units they cross over in this regard, the possibility of building on the basis of a building permit for facilities that have no environmental impact, including in this regard, more effective inspection and so on. In addition to these stories of improvements and the simplification of the legalization of the facilities belong in the rank of a bass with a spirit of corruption that can't wait to get out of the bottle. Unconnected Members, we are the first to have fast, transparent and simple procedures for the construction of buildings. Legislation must be more friendly and predictable to investors and builders. Therefore, in the first reading of the bill, except for me, the Non-Aligned Members did not object. At the time, however, we warned the Minister that he was primarily responsible for protecting public interest in the area of space management and the construction of buildings and that all proposed solutions did not follow this fundamental objective. The response of the professional public, NGOs and us opposition Members was great, as we have tabled several amendments in the context of the hearing. Only two of our amendments, only two, were accepted for all the comments. The other two key solutions are disputed, which will keep the unrelated Members abstaining in the final vote, and I will oppose the bill itself because it damages the architectural professions, thereby jeopardising the quality of future interventions in the space and harshly beating the reputation of contemporary Slovenian architecture. The Minister does not understand the role of individual professions in the design. In his pardon of ignorance of the space, the spatial minister imposes a regulation that the design manager may be a representative of any profession regardless of the area of this profession and regardless of the type of object to be designed. He unreasonablely but with the conviction of kamikaze changes the regime by which the project to manage the construction of the project documentation must determine the authorised architect or the authorized engineer from the profession which dominates this building. That is why we have tabled an amendment to Article 14, which is no longer in a position to amend today's third reading, by which we wanted to maintain the regime of the current current construction law. The project manager for construction engineering projects is the construction engineer and the project manager for the buildings is the predominant architect. They want to break this rule so that he can be the head of design of any profession. The design of the bridge will be followed by a landscape architect, fire safety engineer or mining engineer. They don't have any knowledge of building a minister like that. He thinks it's nice. Even better, he feels that kindergartens, schools, and residential homes will be able to plan and eventually build, for example, an electrical engineer without the cooperation of an architect. That is why I have proposed with the amendment a compromise solution to settle the conflict between the dominant professions. I suggested that it should be part of the design team that took over the design, including the expert who drew up the master plan. In a substantive sense, this is the most important plan not usually drawn up by the design manager, but this proposal has also not been supported. The design professions should be involved and, instead, the law allows the design manager to practically lead the project to a construction permit. [[Incomprehensible]] As the project manager can be a representative of any and not in the project of the dominant profession, there is no doubt that some of the solutions in the bill have been written on the skin of some engineering bureaus. Just as the Minister dares to promote non-taxation and, as he thinks, an instrument of argument in the judiciary is permissible, he goes without shame and imposes on us a law that will allow us to legalise every spatial, pardon, excruciating service to the vassal and exerting power that no one in the room has ever had and should never have when it comes to legalising black buildings. [[Incomprehensible]] As it is known, the KPK received a complaint that the Construction Law was being prepared by a law firm representing also one of the Members in the event of the legalisation of its illegally built facility. If the law is adopted, it will be able to legalise its object. While in its response to the procedure initiated by the KPK, the Ministry denied that the law would be written on the skin of any individual, indeed not on the skin, but on the house. The Ministry lied about the date of the legalisation requirement being changed on the basis of the initiative of the Chamber of Architecture and Space, which was strongly denied in the Chamber. If this law is passed, the world Slovenian architecture of the 20th century will no longer have the option of continuing. The regression will be fueled by the barbarism of a minister who, in every responsible government, would blow away the news of the conversation in which he despises the law, the paying of taxes, the judiciary. And as if that's not enough, this one in front of us systemifies the perfidial levers to degrade the space and seize the privileged.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u271	Mr Branislav Rajić, you are a minute past the time you are allowed and please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u272	Because of the irresponsibility on the one hand and the impeccable unknown on the other, our construction heritage may be only an unworthy trace of space, Plečnik, Ravnikar and the entire range of living architects despite. In the short-term record [[…]] [[They're both talking at the same time.]] one anthological swallowing ministry [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u273	Mag. Branislav Rajić, I ask you to conclude, because it is unfair to others who have only five minutes of time available to present your views, and you are now six more minutes strong.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u274	Let me have one more sentence. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u276	The coalition for damage that will affect our environment and space in the long run is unheard of [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u277	Mag. Branislav Rajić, I'm Mr Rajić, that's enough. [[…]] Thank you very much for your position. It is very unfair of you to take two extra minutes away from each other, but it is incorrect for other colleagues of the parliamentary groups who are temping their views for 5 minutes. Yeah, let's be honest with everyone, right? Here we go, Mr Dušan Šiško will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u278	Thank you so much for the word and the warning to the predecessor. Practice has shown that the Construction Law has made a number of mistakes. These should now be removed, at least on paper, and practice will once again show a real picture. However, in the Slovenian Social Party, we believe that the law under consideration answers a number of questions and dilemmas that have arisen among our citizens and citizens. It's a very professional marriage. Comments, recommendations, opinions from different stakeholders, we certainly welcome them. Firsthand, they know best how things stand and what will actually need to be changed or complemented. The law preserves a fundamental concern for the environment, rights and interests of the population, so that the burning matters can be arranged in an easier, simpler way. In Slovenia, there are many illegal and non-compliant constructions, which have been well silenced in the past. The heart of the problem is that at the time of our parents, grandparents, constructions, or renovations, it was not suitable for construction, even though it was not suitable for each piece of land. Weekends were created from wooden temples, and weekends were spent in homes where families were expanding and needed more housing. We note that today this is a new trend, because young people want to be on their own, so they prefer to live on the weekend instead of in the bloc, and on top of that they can process the land if they have an interest and will. The elderly also want to go to smaller houses, weekends, because the cost of these large houses is too high from a small pension. It is a necessary fact that all these illegal constructions have a grave impact on the general interest of the State, the environment, space and nature. Black constructions have sometimes become bountiful, but we hope that with the current legislative branch they will become less and less. This year, construction inspectors issued around 100 inspections of illegal facilities in an action to control the facilities. In Slovenian history there have also been many instances when honest people bought a house without knowing that the whole house is not legal. The new law will be passed to them, for legalization will also be possible for parts of the building, which will cheer up a number of blacksmiths. In the Slovenian National Party, we are certainly inclined to have our citizens simplified in legalisation. For in the same process it is expected that black construction will be legalized and approved for its construction or reconstruction. Equally, legalisation provides for the payment of municipal contributions to the municipality. If we pull it all together, the law brings good solutions, both to our citizens and to the state and to the municipal budget, where the money will be obtained from legalisation and municipal contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u280	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State with an associate! Proposal for a Construction Law in third reading. The bill does not radically interfere with the content of the law now in force, but only removes the errors found and substantially bureaucraticly derails the process of the action. [[?]] the building permit, while maintaining environmental concerns and rights concerns, the interests of the people concerned by the construction. The bill also introduces some improvements such as e-building of digitalisation in the area of construction and administrative procedures. Acquisition of a building permit following a reduced finding procedure within 30 days in non-problem procedures or cases. The issuance of a building permit within a shorter period allows because the administrative unit will no longer verify the conformity of the proposed construction with spatial acts, but will be in the domain of the municipality. The possibility of building on the basis of a final construction permit shall be reintroduced when it comes to facilities other than facilities and environmental impacts. The bill allows for more effective inspection in such a way as to enable the inspection of unsolicited facilities to be carried out by municipal inspections. The bill rescinds the legalisation of buildings and works of buildings and also removes some nonsense in obtaining an integrated building permit. The bill ensures equality of professions and brings accelerated procedures in the issue of building permits. It also removes two articles which are unconstitutional in the previous law, which is also imposed by the Constitutional Court. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support in the third reading a unanimous bill called the Construction Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u281	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Edvard Paulič, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The basis of any public policy on environmental management must be an understanding of public benefit and public interest. The content of both concepts is specified and the full legislator is therefore still important in the field of environmental protection and building legislation. In the first reading of the construction law, we have warned in the LMŠ that it is not only a harmless remedy for errors or the speeding up of long-term procedures under the current construction law, but also that the bill reflects the unacceptable practices of Minister Viszak, whom we have already said decisively no to them. After the plebiscite majority of Slovenks and Slovenes took the side of professional and environmental NGOs and civil initiatives, the proposal for a construction law wanted to severely restrict them in their mission of protecting public interest and the natural environment. It is not insignificant to point out that a party has a substantive role in each administrative procedure and that when the Government wanted environmental protection organisations to be removed from the circle, we are not doing exactly any good to the environmental stakeholders. We have once again witnessed the manoeuvre to add content to the issue after a public debate has been concluded. Unacceptable maneuver, which has been staged several times in the past. Thus, Members and Members, after more than a year of public debate at the meeting of the parent working body at the table, we received the extremely controversial amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 66 of the Construction Law. This amendment tried to bypass the plebiscite will of the people expressed in the referendum on the Water Act. After several hours of opposition Members' insistence, however, the coalition withdrew the disputed article more than that the Minister rarely hears opposition Members and Members concerned that the Minister does not hear the views of the professional and other public. If I move on. In accordance with the Resolution on the declaratory activities adopted by this National Assembly, legislative proposals should be prepared at the Ministry as employees have appropriate professional competence there. This was not the case in the case of the drafting of the Construction Law. Shortly after his appointment, the minister disbanded the service for the environment and space system, which acted as the Ministry's legal service. Instead, a foreign law firm was involved in the drafting of the construction law, which in our view is in conflict of interest because of which the law is potentially compromised. In the LMŠ we find that this is a matter of introducing new controversial practices, which we strongly oppose at this point. Legislation must not be written in a way that raises suspicion that it is pursuing the partial interests of individuals or groups of people in favour of the whole of society, and that is why we will oppose in the LMS today's proposal, which is burdened by such suspicions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u283	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mrs Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u284	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Almost after a decade of coordination with different stakeholders, a comprehensive revision of environmental and construction legislation was adopted by adopting the construction law and the Law on the regulation of space. It is unusual that we must now only two years after implementing the legislation that has been adopted and coordinated for a decade consider the two laws purely new. And it seems unusual that the current government has managed so quickly to carry out all the different coordination procedures that have been going on for so long. It also seems odd that the Government did not decide to amend these two laws in parts where they proved ineffective and instead wrote together 500 pages of debt extremely technical and hard to understand to the ignorant. It is also unusual that the Ministry of Environment and Space has abolished all legislative legal posts and is an outsourced law, and look at it by accident at the lawyer's office, which happens to be related to one of the engineering companies that will benefit from this law and will be represented by a member of Desus, who will benefit from the legalisation of black construction under this law. It is also unusual in this law to call Hojs's marriage, because Hojs is an engineer by profession, and it is even more unusual that the long-departed Minister of the Interior is on his Twitter Levic, it is said to us that lobbying, in Hu Hu. At the meeting, Minister Vizjak minimized the role of this lawyer's office, as only EUR 6000 was to be paid, which is purely a lie, because the contracts we obtained as information of a public nature made it absolutely clear that the contract of work which could and should be carried out by the legal services of the Ministry of Internal Affairs was worth close to EUR 20 000 of our tax money, and all of this seemed more unusual to the EU or would seem unusual if it had not been for a year and a half to observe that the santa of this government to nature, to space, to work rights, to public health, to education, to state property, to the EU funds and to everything else where it could deregulation, liberalize and privatise as much as possible. And it is quite by chance for the benefit of individuals who are somehow linked to this ruling coalition completely shameless. As is the case with anti-Korona laws, which have adopted overnight too many plant species, which have had nothing to do with halting and mitigating the consequences of the epidemic, so there is also a great deal of technical legislation on 500 pages. In the construction law, some of the most resounding disputes in the public are not at all justified, such as the balance sheet between the project management professions, which we have already pointed out in Levica. Even though we may not even be aware of all the issues covered by these laws. Let me just remind you of the disputed subset in the form of an amendment to Article 66, where they wanted to reintroduce the privatisation of water resources at the back door. For seven hours the struggle for the withdrawal of this amendment lasted, and the minister said at the next reading that this article was not important, very unusual or not. At a meeting that lasted 8 hours, we spent seven hours dealing with this completely irrelevant article, which said something about water, and in one hour we adopted technical amendments to two laws. The proposal for a law practically prevented NGOs and civil society from participating in the procedures for issuing building permits. However, the Minister has promised that these disputed provisions with the amendments will be deleted and that NGOs will maintain the possibility of cooperation they now have. This has indeed been deleted, but there has not been a disputed article that imposes payment on NGOs up to a thousand euros [[sign for the end of the debate]] High administrative and judicial fees, which will also prevent them from participating in these proceedings on a financial basis. Then there are also controversial legalizations of black buildings, apparently written on specific individuals, and lowering legal certainty for investors in the event of the purchase of illegal buildings and so on. Everything we talked about at first reading. The short marriage after several months of consideration in the National Assembly is not significantly better [[sign for the end of the debate]] as was the first reading, where we voted against his acceptance in Levica. It was and continues to be a list of lobbyists who last year and a half at the MOP handing out hooks. That is why we will also vote against the adoption of this law in the Third reading in Levica. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 156 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I see you don't. I'm closing the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 159 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We have therefore concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Service Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Franz Vindišar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u286	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In the Republic of Slovenia, there is a shortage of doctors, which makes it difficult for people to have access to health care, especially in the acute epidemiological situation we are currently witnessing. The reasons for the adoption of the amendment of the law can be narrowed down to the following sets. Longevity of professional qualifications procedures due to difficulties in meeting the conditions of knowledge of the Slovenian language for foreign doctors. Lack of doctors at many levels of health care. Waiting periods, which often exceed the maximum permissible periods. Promoting access to health services also through possible new powers for healthcare providers. And ensuring and raising the expertise, quality and safety of the medical service. The proposed amendments complement the proof of knowledge of the Slovenian language. In view of the specificity of the professional terminology in the field of medical services and in order to make it easier to prove the conditions for proof of language knowledge, and thus faster employment of doctors from abroad, the possibility of submitting a certificate of the Chamber is added to the law as proof of the knowledge of the Slovenian language when applying for a professional examination. The certificate shall be issued on the basis of a previous examination of the professional Slovenian language for physicians, which shall be carried out at the Chamber in cooperation with the linguistic profession, with the recognition of existing public documents. It shall be issued on the basis of a successful examination at the level of excellence submitted by either candidate or candidate. The exam at the Chamber is adapted to the needs of the work, as the emphasis is on the knowledge of the professional language and not of the Slovenian language in general. The proposed amendments shall introduce a basic medical certificate which shall be granted to the doctor after the professional examination has been carried out on an official basis with a view to the immediate involvement in the performance of the medical service. A basic-licensed doctor will be able to carry out all the activities for which he has acquired adequate skills in the framework of education and traineeships, in particular he will be able to carry out work in the field of emergency activities. The novel also introduces the institute of a certificate of special medical knowledge. On this basis, the doctor will be able to carry out a medical service on his own in the professional field for which he has obtained a licence with additional training and training and will have the opportunity to obtain a certificate of acquired special knowledge in a particular other professional field, and thus the right to carry out a medical service on his own in this area. Since the paper provides for the definition of specific skills in a particular professional field for purely professional issues, it provides that the content of special skills will be determined by the Slovenian Medical Society in cooperation with the Faculty of Medicine and will be accepted by the Slovenian Medical Chamber in agreement with the Ministry of Health. The certificate will be bound to the validity of the basic licence. With the proposed amendments to provide comprehensive care for the education and training of doctors in the Medical Chamber, the implementation of the professional examinations from the Ministry of Health is transferred to the Chamber. On the basis of public authority, the Chamber has been monitoring and overseeing the professional development of doctors since the beginning of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u287	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother body and I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u288	Thank you very much for taking the floor. At its 67th emergency meeting, the Health Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Medical Services Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. We dealt with the law in two parts because of the party's business manoeuvre and concluded it yesterday. On behalf of the applicant, the additional explanation was submitted by mag. Franc Vindišar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, who presented somehow three sets of major solutions. First, the immediate involvement of doctors after a traineeship and at a professional examination in the provision of medical services within the limits of the basic licence. Second. Simplifying the entry of foreign doctors into the labour market and simplifying the procedures for the employment of doctors from abroad. And the third set. Increase accessibility to services provided by doctors in the context of the medical service and thus the provision of public health care. The main reasons for the adoption of the law are the lack of doctors at all levels of health care, waiting periods that exceed the maximum permitted waiting periods. Otherwise, more was said in his presentation. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented a written opinion which the Service had submitted where all comments were made on the individual articles, some of which were fully respected, some in the smaller part, and some of their comments remained. It is particularly about solutions that interfere with the concept of law itself. There are substantial systemic changes to the current legal regime, the problem is the same as the proposed regulation, its shortcomings, the lack of coordination, as well as an extremely weak explanation, have been further said. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, work, health care and disabled persons was presented by mag. Peter Pozun. He stressed that the Commission had examined the draft law, very precisely and unanimously supported it. In the debate, some opposition parties highlighted their inappropriate treatment of the law, expressed their disagreement that the concentration of power is going back to the Medical Chamber, since in the past jurisdiction has been taken away due to the narrow interests of doctors. it is possible to call for specialisations because there were more invitations to tender than they were awarded, which was carefully safeguarded so that the number of specialists did not increase too much. [[Incomprehensible]] Regarding the knowledge of the Slovenian language, they warned that after their inappropriate examination of the expertise of the Slovenian language in medicine, which will be checked by the Medical Chamber. They objected to a provision which provides that specialisation may also be carried out in private. Contrary to the opinion, representatives of coalition parties stressed that changes in the professional training of doctors were urgently needed. In practice, there is a greater number of professional trainings and skills, which, despite their quality and scope from a legal point of view, do not constitute additional competence for a doctor on the basis of which he may provide healthcare services which do not fall within the limits of their licence. The following presented the fundamental shortcomings of the current legislation, the medical services that the bill seeks to remedy. It is explained that the draft law will establish a basic licence and specific knowledge with a doctor, which will ensure a higher level of professionalism, safety and quality of medical treatment, which is most important for patients. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u289	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, she gets the word, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. It will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u290	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The New Law on Medical Services brings some novelty, and it primarily wants to address the problem of lack of doctors, which, of course, became even more obvious during the crown of the crisis and made access to health care more difficult for many people. The novelty brings three essential news. The basic licence granted to the doctor after the professional examination by official determination with a view to the immediate inclusion in the management of the medical service, a certificate of special knowledge on the basis of which the doctor will be able to include additional expertise in his work, as well as changes in the requirement of the relevant knowledge of the Slovenian language, which will simplify the acquisition of doctors from abroad in a manner that requires the professional level of knowledge of the Slovenian language to be carried out at the Medical Chamber. The basic licence and the Institute of Doctors’ Special Skills shall ensure the objective of patient protection and the quality of medical treatment of individuals. This objective is also pursued by complementing the evidence of knowledge of Slovenian language for foreign doctors. Doctors will have to master such a level of professional Slovenian knowledge that will enable them to communicate smoothly with patients and colleagues and to write the required tests and reports. A new certificate of special knowledge, however, introduces a mechanism for the recognition of skills and competences acquired outside the licensing process, whereby the doctor is fully competent to carry out the medical service on his own in a determined area, even if his licence does not cover this area of expertise. In this way, an effective mechanism for the recognition of the specific skills of physicians will be established, ensuring that the medical service in all professional areas will, of course, continue to be carried out by doctors who have acquired the skills to carry out a medical service in a particular field within their licence, and in addition to doctors who have acquired the necessary skills through additional education, in which they have acquired special knowledge. Let us not forget the reasons for today’s consideration of the New Law on Medical Services. In the first place, this is certainly a lack of doctors at all levels of health care. As a result, we have waiting periods that go beyond the maximum permissible. This is followed by the longevity of the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications, and finally by the need to ensure and increase the expertise, quality and safety of the medical service. We believe that the proposed amendment of the Law on Medical Services addresses all these challenges in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, so we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u292	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The present amendment to the Law on Medical Services aims to achieve several goals. In this regard, the main objective is to fill the lack of physicians. Otherwise, there are three main measures, i.e. to facilitate the process of arrival and work of doctors from abroad. In fact, the proposal changes the way in which proof of Slovenian language knowledge is obtained. The requirement at the level of knowledge will be C1, but the Commission will take primary account of the candidate's terminology. It also foresees changes in the involvement of doctors in the work. It follows as soon as possible integration, which should be achieved by a new licence that can be obtained and started. It may also obtain others for other areas with this licence. So, he gets a professional license. However, the conduct of the professional examinations would have been transferred to the medical room. It also provides for changes for secondarys. A doctor who has not yet specialized in the field of family medicine or emergency medicine would, after the first three months of his professional examination, perform as a secondary in order for all to gain insight into these two particularly deficient areas. In the SAB, we estimate that some of the solutions proposed by the government are partly appropriate, as we are aware of the critical health situation, but as we are already accustomed to this government, the law we are re-adopting from today to tomorrow contains changes that are unimaginable and incomplete and that we cannot really support. At the same time, we see neither the actual need nor the legal basis for law to be adopted so quickly, without an appropriate professional public debate and also a debate with sufficient time in the very bodies of this Parliament. Let's just see. There's no such thing as nomotech. [[…]] Let's just look at a lot of comments about our legal and legal services. In addition, the bill gives all too much authority to the Medical Chamber, which has already proved to be an inadequate form for the planning, acquisition and development of medical personnel. Private interests regularly prevail, and that is not the case. It is an impression that these very provisions that bring powers and money to the medical board are those that have pushed this law forward so quickly because money is already waiting for it somewhere. Nor is it the appropriate solution for specialisations with public money to be carried out in private. Once again, it is a matter of using public money to finance private activities. Therefore, we have tabled amendments with the other opposition parties proposing that these tasks be abolished by the Medical Chamber and that the Ministry of Health do so. The fact is that the problems of lack of doctors did not arise yesterday, but they are the result of years of head-stressing in the sand, hoping that this is just the current situation that will somehow be resolved. That this is not the case, and that the situation is still very serious as evidenced by the acute circumstances it has exposed and deepened by the underlying crisis. In doing so, I call on the Ministry of Health to develop as soon as possible a methodology for assessing and identifying the current short-, medium- and long-term needs of doctors and the preparation of realistic medical standards and standards, based on an analysis of the actual and possible burdens of doctors, and thus on one fundamental basis to create a strong network of public health services, which we are working for virtually all. In the SAB, we will not support the proposal for a law for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic is next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u294	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We hear a lot about and read about the plight of citizens and citizens who cannot choose their own personal doctor because there are almost no doctors to receive new patients. In acute epidemiological situations, this problem has become even more acute. Older people who had received care in the same place 20 or 30 years ago often lose their personal physician. The elderly are not so skilled in finding a new personal doctor. Usually, however, they need a lot of medical care, and they are even worse mobile for a hangover, and as a result, it is difficult to choose a doctor who is away from their home. When we break the first line, if I cariculate a little bit, and remove the check from the personal physician, we encounter waiting periods, which repeatedly exceed the maximum permitted. Despite all the problems in health care, however, we are still faced with a self - sacrificing staff that, despite the difficult conditions of work, retains heart and goodwill. In order to improve the situation at least a little bit, we have today on our benches a novel on the Medical Service Act, which brings some solutions that will help to improve the functioning and accessibility of the healthcare system mainly at the primary level, while ensuring a higher level of professionalism, safety and quality of healthcare for patients. The bill provides for the immediate inclusion of doctors after a traineeship and professional examination in the provision of medical services within the limits of the basic licence. It amends and complements the evidence of Slovenian language knowledge and introduces the Institute of Doctors' Special Knowledge Certificate, which will provide in the Slovenian legal order a mechanism for the recognition of skills and competences acquired outside the licensing process, whereby the doctor is fully competent to carry out the medical service independently in a particular field, even though his licence does not cover this professional area. Furthermore, the proposal for a law also facilitates the entry of foreign doctors into the labour market. We are aware that the accessibility of the health system is complex and that today's solutions are only partial. If we can do something immediately, it is to remove bureaucratic obstacles and rationalise procedures. Of course, this is not the end of the legislator's task. There will continue to be a need for proactive action in the search for new solutions for a better and more accessible public health system. In the DESUS Group, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Medical Services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u296	For almost 2 years, the ongoing Coronavirus epidemic, although it has not been announced in the last period at all, has well exposed all the cracks of the existing public health system that breathes on the gills, yet is rescinding to the health and life of citizens and citizens every day. Therefore, in this place, he first thanks the entire medical virtue for their struggle and contribution in these difficult times, and thanks also to all those who have put themselves at the side of that unreasonable minority of fellow residents who are spreading dangerous charlatanism in the midst of a severe public health situation. Yes, I am talking about the almost self-proclaimed initiative of Slovenian doctors and their unethical behaviour, for which it is right to answer to the competent authorities. The epidemic has thus highlighted one of the fundamental problems of our health system, which is a marked human deficit and a lack of medical personnel, but also of all other health personnel and the novelty of today, which has addressed this problem, so it was considered to give it an accurate examination and an objective political assessment of its relevance. In relation to the problem of lack of staff, it would be primarily important to ensure the right conditions for working in the healthcare system, not just for doctors, but for all staff. It is also very likely that it will not be enough to simply regulate empty relations. Nevertheless, this time the aim is to complement the immediate involvement of doctors in the medical profession. We know the situation in the area of family and emergency medicine. In the family area alone, we're short 200 doctors right now. We therefore welcome the proposed solution in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. In recent years, it has been found that the required level of knowledge of the Slovenian language and of all related processes does not allow this staff gap to be filled. Of course, I am primarily talking about knowledge and language management at the professional level, while ensuring the safety and quality of healthcare. It is true that in the past the Medical Chamber had too much power and that it was reasonable and necessary for it to be deprived of certain powers, and I am, of course, talking about the granting of specialisations. This is, last but not least, from the Court of Auditors' report. However, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members and Members of Parliament, we assess that, in the case of the transfer of technical examinations in the field of knowledge of the Slovenian language, there is no over-authorisation or that such a solution cannot, on the basis of the principles of safety and quality of medical treatment. The unaffiliated Members and Members understand the intent of the proposed solutions and we will not oppose them in today's vote, even though we believe that the law should be dealt with on a regular basis. The medical profession often draws attention to the chronic shortage of doctors at primary level, and the epidemic has made this accessibility, of course, worse for people, and during this time health workers have a number of additional duties with fewer staff, which increases the possibility of mistakes and places a heavy burden on health workers. That's why it's not right to let them down.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša is next. He will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u298	Once again a good day to all present in the hall, especially you, the esteemed Vice-President of the National Assembly and, of course, the representatives of the Government! Solutions that are taken quickly are usually not good. The current health situation in the country has further shown where the problems are in the health system. The fact that a systemic problem, such as the replacement of a mania of doctors, cannot be solved overnight. The proposer wants to open the door to Slovenian health care to foreign doctors in a way that the knowledge of the Slovenian language can be verified at the Medical Chamber. The applicant argues that the examination will take into account the professional terminology of the doctor. But crows don't turn their eyes off, and it's hard to believe blindly that knowledge weighs. It is hard to forget the stories we listen to on the ground every day in the field, that doctors do not speak Slovenian and that many people do not understand them when they explain the diagnosis. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that a doctor needs to know Slovenian, especially in communication with the patient. Only in this way can the patient properly explain the situation and, on the basis of this, the patient can make a choice of his own volition. I won't or won't think how many times a patient said yes or no because he was afraid or ashamed to admit that he doesn't understand a doctor. I don't even think about how many times someone's been treated for it against their own will. I understand that we have a shortage of doctors, which is due to years and years of neglect in this area, but it is necessary that at least the doctors with whom the patient indirectly meets when he needs medical care, such as pediatricians, dentists, gynaecologists, doctors in the E.R., learn a simple Slovenian language. For a highly educated surgeon with whom the patient does not come into contact, it is less important that he can speak a good Slovenian language. Such an expert will communicate with the medical team in the agreed language. At the moment of contact with the doctor, the patient must speak a simple Slovenian language. What we often get from the field is information that the doctor dictates a diagnosis in Latin, and the patient sits in the infirmary and doesn't even understand how serious the situation is, even less what happens to him. The professional language should be the language of communication between experts and doctors, so as to get on the real ground when communicating. Every patient deserves to be treated throughout the Slovenian language. As representatives of the SNS, we are also adding to the simple people's language that people will understand the diagnosis. We do not see a solution to the lack of a doctor in easing the conditions for Slovenian language knowledge, but in changing the educational system of the path itself from study to practice and this appropriate payment of course. Enrollment in medical schools has been considered to be something prestigious. Something impossible and usually the highest number of points required to enter is required. This logic would then give us the best students who would become the best students and later doctors, which is, of course, far from the truth. The number of entries has really increased lately, but that means we'll only get new doctors in ten years. It would make sense for current senior medical students to be thrilled to stay in Slovenia without listening to the amazing stories of older colleagues every day. A lot needs to be changed, and you can also introduce admission exams for medicine. Sadly, however, we had to find ourselves in an epidemic to finally deal with problems that have been dragging for years and years like the yoke of snakes, years and years, decades and decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u299	Thank you, too. The next is Mrs Nada Brinovšek, presenting the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u300	Good day to you all here in the hall! Well, good afternoon to those who accompany this meeting of the National Assembly in their offices! See, the fact is that in Slovenia for several years, for various reasons, we have recorded a decline in the number of doctors, which, of course, makes it difficult to have access to the health care of our people. The proposed Ministry of Health therefore wishes to allow for the first time, and for the immediate inclusion of doctors after a traineeship and a professional examination in the performance of a medical service. This is why a new Institute of Basic Doctoral License is being introduced. It's like the second time. It is proposed to amend or supplement procedures for the employment of doctors from abroad with regard to the knowledge of their or our Slovenian language. The emphasis is on knowledge of medical, professional terminology. And thirdly, a new institute is being introduced, a so-called special knowledge certificate. After this novelty, the basic licence will allow the doctor to start a limited medical service after the professional examination. He will be able to carry out all the activities for which he has acquired adequate knowledge in the context of education and traineeships, such as knowledge and skills in the field of emergency medicine, such as an emergency ambulance or work in emergency clinics, etc. Basic-licensed doctors will be able to carry out work in the field of emergency activities and thus contribute significantly to addressing the lack of staff in this area. The proposer also proposes to regulate the field of knowledge of the Slovenian language for foreign doctors as a condition for the performance of the medical service. The novelty of this law proposes that the knowledge of the Slovenian language be proven by a certificate of the Medical Chamber in which the doctor conducts the examination of the knowledge of the professional Slovenian language. The examination will take into account the contents of the doctor’s professional terminology, which is also crucial for his understanding and cooperation. At the same time, it allows doctors to enter the medical service more quickly. The programme for the examination of the knowledge of the Slovenian professional language will be prepared by the Medical Chamber in cooperation with the competent public higher education institution. The content and the course of the examination of the Slovenian professional language for doctors and the format of the certificate will, of course, be determined by the Medical Chamber in agreement with the Minister of Health. The new law also introduces a new institute of so-called special knowledge certificate. A licensed doctor will be able to obtain a certificate of acquired special knowledge in a particular other professional field by additional training and education, and thus the right to carry out the medical service on his own. The amendment of the law also strongly proposes to transfer the professional examination from the Ministry of Health to the Medical Chamber, which of course makes sense, as the Chamber monitors and supervises their professional development throughout the course of its life, is actively involved in the provision of appropriate postgraduate training, as well as education in the context of the granting and extension of licences, and is also included in the organisation of education on the basis of which doctors acquire or maintain the knowledge that allows them to extend the licence itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are so convinced that these amendments to the Medical Service Act are going in a positive direction of solving the problem, and the lack of personnel in health care will therefore be supported by this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u302	Dear and respectable, good afternoon! In our opinion, the Medical Service Act is too late. The lack of doctors in our country has been facing us for many years. And we've only been dealing with the Coronavirus epidemic, which has further exposed this problem for one year and nine months. Furthermore, the law does not prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, as the applicants argue. Therefore, in our view, it is not appropriate to enact such a law under an emergency procedure. Moreover, there is a systemic change in the area of self-service of the medical service, but the public has not been involved in the drafting of the law. The draft law provides, inter alia, for the conduct of an examination of the Slovenian language which is to be carried out at the Medical Chamber in which the knowledge of the professional language is to be examined in particular. This is actually about lowering the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language. This does not ensure a sufficient level of communication between the doctor and the patient. The patient needs a lay explanation of diagnosis, treatment and the like. Knowledge of professional terminology alone could make this communication even more difficult, and the danger is that doctors who are more in need will be allowed to pass exams. In our view, the language skills provisions will certainly not increase accessibility to health services. In doing so, we are also asked why doctors, for example nurses, are not the only ones who are less likely to have more difficult conditions of employment than doctors when checking the knowledge of Slovenian. But we can't even get past the dilemma or the Chamber is really qualified to test knowledge or it's just the granting of additional powers to the Chamber. In our opinion, the Ministry must have the competence to verify the knowledge of the Slovenian language and not the Chamber. That is why we have tabled an amendment in the democratic opposition to grant this authority to the Ministry of Health. Furthermore, the bill provides that the professional examinations will be conducted at the Medical Chamber and no longer at the Ministry of Health. In our view, the current regime is appropriate and we propose deleting this provision. Let us recall that in the past, professional examinations have already been conducted at the chamber, but these powers have been revoked for a reason. Finally, it is also worth recalling the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The issue of internal compliance with the law, the relationship to the current regime of the concept of independent management of the medical service on the basis of specialisation and the associated licence are raised. Question of achieving a higher level of expertise, safety and quality, medical treatment of patients. The content of the programme to verify the relevant knowledge of Slovenian or the criterion to be taken into account in this programme is not included in order to ensure adequate knowledge of the Slovenian language, which ensures the exercise of the patient's right to communicate in Slovenian and so on. While some comments have been taken into account by amendments, the law is not, in our view, appropriate. We will not support the law in the LMŠ. Although the problem of lack of doctors should be addressed, not in this way. The changes must be considered and adopted in the dialogue with the expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u304	Thank you, Madam President. Have a nice hello again. Of course, there is a global competition not only for doctors and doctors, but for all health workers and workers. As a rule, more developed countries somehow pick up those who are educated by less developed countries that already have a development deficit in their health systems. Of course, it is necessary to think about how in Slovenia we will import these relevant personnel with appropriate immigration policy and allow them to create here as the right-wing family, homes and stay between us, of course, it is necessary to think about how our trained staff will not only remain in Slovenia and continue to build their careers and ambitions here, but not that we will educate them to the greatest extent in particular German speaking countries. Does this matter that formally bears the name of the law answer these questions? No, no, no. In fact, he wants to reinvent some major systemic challenges to the housing organisation of doctors and doctors, where membership is compulsory in order to ensure that not only Slovenian public health policy is primarily addressed by the Ministry of Health. Is a residential organization, with all due respect for it, and like any serious profession, of course, to develop the professional language, the professional Slovenian, the appropriate body to test the knowledge of Slovenian? Social Democrats don't think so. Is it appropriate to take part in the privatisation of specializations, which means that young doctors and doctors, specialists, as they might say in any other possible colleague on the left about this internal class fight will be even more in the penal situation? No, and because of this, of course, we have proposed certain amendments in the democratic opposition to the constitutional arch, which are unlikely to be accepted. Beyond all this, obviously this government is no longer able to write down a legislative proposal that our legislative and legal services would not rightly overtake. Even somehow, when Mr Windishar, the present Secretary of State, was trying to explain in some oral explanations what was not actually written here, he had some additional doubts, you know. If we want young people, ambitious people who study medicine earlier, if I say in human language, we will also have to turn this medical study at least partially to the head and allow them to be admitted to clinics and also teach them about what belongs to the part that we usually call care. Only then, of course, and of course also properly mentor them, of course, are they adequately re-secured if mistakes occur. All of these would be some minimum conditions that such a law should contain. Since it does not contain them, because it does not explain why they are being added together, the whisper goes like this: The government has promised some 150 euros to the chamber, and something has to be fueled to cover it up. Of course, social democrats cannot support such deals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u306	Madam President, thank you for your word. The new Law on Medical Services, prepared by the Government, says itself that it answers at least part of the issue of personnel shortages in the Slovenian health system, and is intended to make this novel faster to bring new additional medical capacities and additional personnel into circulation, and to facilitate the touch of healthcare personnel from abroad. Unfortunately, the situation is different from the real law that we have on the table today and does not really save it. We can first define it as a typical lobbyist law, except this time we are not talking about capital that wants to concrete riverbanks or capital that wants to buy supplies of medicines for all of Slovenia, but we are talking about a medical insurance lobby. You know, that part of the medical profession that is already very privileged within our healthcare system in its entirety, which controls the tops of hospitals, which also receives tens of thousands of various supplements, as it did in the Covid-19 epidemic, which also listed me as the best paid public servants. One of the organizations, which has been unfortunately approved in the past by this medical insurance lobby, is also the Medical Chamber. The Medical Chamber is expected to act as the expert body of all the doctors we have in this country, but unfortunately, more than professional matters are being dealt with too often with by interesting lobbying matters to provide additional privileges to the medical profession, so I reiterate that we are not talking about almost all the doctors and doctors we have in this country, but only those few percent of the most privileged, including those who work in public hospitals in the morning, from where they redirect patients to their own private practices, to extend the waiting hours on purpose just so that we can earn extra money for the same patients. So how exactly does the current amendment of the medical service law go to the medical insurance lobby? Let us begin at the point which was the core of the debate and the presentation of views to this point. This is the area of regulating the knowledge of the Slovenian language, because the new knowledge certificate will be transferred to the Medical Chamber, which it will be able to issue. What could possibly go wrong if we grant additional privileges to the Medical Chamber? We've seen this in the past. The Medical Chamber was the organisation that held the scissors and the canvas in the hands of the call for additional specialties. However, these ladies and gentlemen in white robes have secured their own positions within the healthcare system by calling for specialisations in such a way that there has never been any special staff pressure from young doctors on a particular area of specialization, thus ensuring a monopolistic position within the health system, a position of power in the light of the lack of human resources which they themselves have created in order to blackmail the country into privatising public health, for even more privileges and for more power. Similarly, the position of the Medical Chamber is strengthened by the professional examination holder brought from the Ministry of Health to the Medical Chamber. Which brings me to another problematic point in the current law, that's a basic license. Basically, we do not know exactly what this basic licence should be, only we know that when a doctor completes his education in order to be able to get involved as soon as possible in active work within the healthcare system, but given the context given, according to the fact that the Government of Janez Janša works with a medical insurance lobby with a hand in hand, we cannot on the left avoid the feeling that it is about a few years behind the legal provisions that say that every doctor has to do so much and so many years of his work within a public network, for the basic license this condition flies through the door. And for closure. Article 7 of the novel states that the set of healthcare providers who can obtain the powers of the Minister for the implementation of the second-graduate and specialisation training is further extended to the private sector and we can once again witness how the situation of private health is strengthened through legislation at the expense of public health. How to strengthen the situation of profit and business instead of health as the right of all citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u307	Thank you very much. As the last position of the NSI Group, she will present Ambassador Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u308	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Medical Service Act introduces changes to the speedy integration of young doctors and doctors from abroad into the Slovenian health system. The novelty also provides for a new basic licence institution, with which young doctors can be immediately involved in the operation of the medical service. Under the basic licence, they can carry out all activities for which they have been properly trained in the course of medical education and doctoral training. The fact is, we lack doctors in Slovenia. We therefore need today's bill to raise the quality of basic health care for our citizens. Access to health care must not only be a letter on paper, but this right must also be effectively ensured. If I mention or, at the time of the examination of the Medical Service Act 2017, it was said that 130 certificates of good name had been issued by the Medical Chamber by July 2017. These certificates were confirmed in 2016 by 260. This year, 100 have been certified. This certificate is needed by doctors leaving Slovenia and it is obvious that the number of these departures has decreased recently, probably due to measures and modernisation of Slovenian health care during this government and also due to the COVID-19 epidemic itself. Our efforts must be clear and follow the objective of further reducing the number of good name certificates issued, and this law will also help. In Novi Slovenija we believe that we must all aim to ensure that if we educate doctors in Slovenia, then we must also strive to keep them, here, at home, in our health institutions. However, we need to give them the opportunity to make progress, to include them in the work as soon as possible in the emergency centres or emergency clinics. Young people who study for so long and have so much knowledge want to work, to absorb new experiences, new knowledge, nothing is difficult for them everywhere to want to be around and the challenges of their passion, so we need to take advantage of this and give them the opportunity to make even more of a desire and interest to work in the infirmary and to do the work they have decided to do and often say it is their mission. All we need are patients, the health system and everyone between us. Doctors and doctors of dental medicine who already have a licence for a bill allow them to also obtain a certificate of special knowledge from other related fields. The validity of the certificate is linked to the doctor's license, so the doctor must ensure that his basic licence is maintained regularly if he wishes to maintain special knowledge. The Institute of Special Knowledge is particularly important because it is not possible for certain knowledge in the field of palliatives, for example, to determine the area of specialisation. So far, this has been addressed through shorter courses and education, not through comprehensive training. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we support a legal solution to enable you to obtain certificates for special knowledge acquired by doctors during your work. We have been talking about palliative care for at least 10 years, so that it is not arranged as it should be. This law will be a way to get to this solution as well as knowledge from gerontology and because we will need this more than ever before to support it. With the aim of speeding up the employment of doctors from abroad, the law introduces exams conducted on the professional Slovenian language for doctors at the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. The Knowledge Verification Programme will be prepared by the Chamber in cooperation with the public higher education institution, which teaches and conducts exams from the Slovenian language as a second or foreign language. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u309	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. The amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB Group to Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 11, so we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 2 and 11 as well as the amendments of the SD, Levica, SAB and LMŠ. He signed up for a mag once. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u310	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State and co-worker, all hailed! I wish every other word would be the right of the patient. The patient must not be without a doctor. It must not happen that 74-year-old lady is sent a notice to her that your doctor has gone to a pension you have left without a doctor. This should not happen in a country where the number of doctors in public hospitals has increased by almost 50 per cent from 2 000 700 to 4 thousand 100 in the last 15 years, because the number of nurses in different levels of education has increased from 8 thousand 100 to 11 thousand and some where unfortunately at least the number of family doctors has increased by 13 per cent according to your minister's data. This must not happen in the country where we introduced reference clinics to relieve doctors, because some things have to be done there. This should not happen in a country where a prescription has also been introduced by, say, some chronic patients have a prescription that has been in force for a year. I really want to talk to you about all the rights of new standards, new investments just today I'm asking not tomorrow I'm going to ask the question of how it's possible that CT in different hospitals are used in a 1:6 ratio in the first nine months of this year, about a thousand investigations, and somewhere else 7 thousand investigations, so I'm telling you that basically the organization at this point is the magic word, if we want to help patients, is our duty here to help patients. Then follow everything else. And the organization is the one where we all have to be acknowledged, kneeled in the last 30 years. 30 years. And if we want to improve things for the patients, for the patients, because the patient is first, the patient is king, we're going to have to do the most at the organization. The specific law that lies before us makes me feel mixed. I understand the good intention of increasing the number of operational doctors because they can start working early and can work a little longer. I understand that. Secondly, I don't understand that you haven't taken any more time to write a law that is nominally and legally consistent. When we listen to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, but what is wrong, do not go into the content, they go into the legal order of what you want to arrange, it is simple, I said yesterday that the law, which actually has four and a half pages of articles, has 6 pages of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service. You're going to save some of them, and you're going to try to save some of them with the amendments, but unfortunately not all of them. The Social Democrats themselves and the coalition partners have tabled two amendments. One amendment simply says that there is simply no rational logic for the medical boards to increase their powers. Nevertheless, it is an organization that operates in a technical way, and we want to have a hand over health care who will always say: the patient is first, we will not let any patient down. And secondly, what I do know is that this is marginal, because in fact specializations cannot be performed in concessional clinics, specializations can be performed in 27 state hospitals. And I don't know why you're just teasing those of us who believe in public health, but also in public health institutions, by allowing those who can't do this anyway, to do their specializations, and by doing so, we're pouring money from public cash registers to where, I mean, we just want this money to come into state hospitals to make useful use of it. I wish those two amendments were accepted. The law, as I said, I'm sorry. While predicting a few more hours of work that patients will have at their disposal to write it, forgive me for a bit of a verbal word, you rascal. Take your time, consult with lawyers and come to this Parliament at some point also with laws that are nomotechnically appropriate. And in fact, I'm not voting against this law, what I'm saying right now, because I have a feeling that patients, to me the most important patient, are going to get a few more hours at the doctor's disposal, because there's going to be a few more doctors available. I wish our two amendments were accepted. If you do this, I'm willing to even vote for this law. Although I'll still know he's a slut, he still brings something to all the patients. But if you don't, I'll hold off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Madam President. In view of the fact that a fellow Jew has gone a little wider, let me just say some things myself, perhaps in part, or explain. True, it is outrageous that citizens and citizens cannot reach a personal doctor. It is unheard of that some of you are warning this only today, because this has not been happening since today, it has been for quite some time. And on the one hand, citizens and citizens who do not come to the doctor have been alerted to this problem, and on the other hand, the health system itself, which cannot do so. So a certain number of patients can have a personal doctor, and more than that can't have them. Doctors are also human and can work within their capabilities. Now, of course, this government is more aware of this problem, so it has also taken certain measures already with the Health Emergency Action Act, where it specifically highlights Article 24 which is intended for so-called family doctors to decide on this specialisation. The problem is that young doctors do not decide on this specialty. Why not, the answer is probably already known in itself – because it is extremely difficult and only work, I will say, it is indeed a lot of people and, in fact, they have some concerns about this kind of specialization. It's not just doctors here, it's the basic first primary system, but we also have problems with some specialties. This article, paragraph 2, refers to the fact that certain powers should not be transferred to the so-called Medical Chamber. Moreover, it is unacceptable for me to stress that individual parties have signed under the amendment, which states in the explanatory note: Over the years, the Medical Chamber has become an obstacle to more efficient management of the healthcare system. Of course, I don't think that's true. I believe that the medical board has different points of view to certain problems, but this is a chamber that brings together people, doctors who are also committed to some ethical standards and I think such records are exaggerated and nothing is proud of the current state of health when we know what it is like in the field of health. There's something else you need to say. I believe that it is only right that some things are transferred to the medical room because this enormous amount of knowledge has a great deal of experience. Their views are based on what Kordish previously pointed out as a problem, based on the maintenance of public health. And because they are based on the preservation of public health, it is important to say this, however, when someone says that some individuals will be privileged. That someone shouldn't have to take a traineeship with a private doctor, but if I can get some more, the following is important. Look, imagine another profession where a young person shouldn't train with an entrepreneur, a private. That's the same thing. Why shouldn't a doctor do this internship with a private person? It's about the whole system, and it's about learning something, and then getting your knowledge back to the country. It's much worse that when we don't give them a chance, we literally drive them out of the country, and they apply their knowledge elsewhere. I listened even then to the Left before the time that doctors must somehow commit to costing their education so much, they must be in the system for so long. Well, come on.Oh, my God! Then it means that the one who graduated from construction shouldn't build his own construction business tomorrow, but he has to work in the system for the first four years, so that after that time he can become a private person. It's complicated stuff, and let's stop these poor doctors, we keep calling them like some non-necessary, I don't know, amphibians and so on. See if anyone is using the system, so it should be properly sanctioned. But let us not cast a bad light on the entire system and such records as the fact that the doctor's office has always shown that the obstacle is I think they are wrong. It is very helpful for the Medical Chamber, it has a lot of knowledge, experts, and it is very important for doctors themselves, because they can concentrate on individual problems or problems that only in this, I will say, really solve the housing organization. [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u313	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u314	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I really wish you would ever speak the truth in this diabolical assembly. I don't think I should warn you just today. May I bring you the file, how long have I been warning you, after all, or have you heard me correctly, Madam Ambassador? In the last 15 years, the number of doctors in hospitals has increased by almost 50% and in family medicine by 13%. This is official information from the Ministry. And other things have settled down. However, as in this debate, the patient’s word is no. We're only doing this because of the patients, and the patients are still on hold. It's unacceptable to me personally. Secondly, has this government done everything? As far as I know, I may be wrong, but I know the situation in neighbouring countries, even a little bit more distant, it is not easy that primary health care, not simply because it has decided, has been forced to focus on telephone health. What a crazy fly! A man needs to be seen if he's sick, and you can't see it on the phone and Zoom, you can't see it. After that, they'll remember your government. As far as specialization is concerned, or do you know why specialization is required in state hospitals, we only have them in a state hospital. [[Incomprehensible]] Because a specialist has to get to know all the pathology, all the possible, even the extreme cases, but if you look at our concessionaires, which I value very much, they do, if we compare how much they work, they probably work a lot more than the average health team in public state institutions, but you will find that they are not doing all the work. At the end of the day, the most difficult cases come to the hospital states, and where should the specialists get to know them if not where the cases are? They can't learn that, like, with concessionaires who work, I don't know, all the time a hernia operation, but when it's more complicated, they send it to a clinical center or a regional hospital. Therefore, it is necessary that specialists are in institutions where all examples are available to learn. And again, not because I like the state or because I like the private, that's because I like patients. Therefore, specialists must be widely trained. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a debate? [[Yeah.]] Mrs Anja Bah Žibert or, I apologize, first gets the floor of the Secretary of State. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Just enough to explain. The implementation of specialisation outside the public health network is provided only when the specialisation programme cannot be implemented in the public health network. This certainly does not mean that the specials will now go to the private, but when this program is not there. Yesterday we mentioned, medicine, transport and sport is such an area, clinical pharmacology is such an area. Of course, what you have mentioned, operations and similar matters, is being done by state hospitals and because it is possible to do so in public hospitals, even after this novel, this remains, of course, as it is and there is no danger that these specialists will now go to private hospitals, but will continue to carry out this specialization programme, which can be carried out in state hospitals, in state hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u317	Thank you very much. First of all, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the word, after which Mr Miha Kordiš gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u318	Thank you very much. I will be brief because, in fact, the Secretary of State has already said that even when it comes to private or private services, it is only those things that are not accessible in a public system, and cannot be implemented. Look, I already have populism at the expense of patients, really, over my head, and I'm just saying something -- actions are the ones that matter. Now we can, we've talked for 15 years, we can talk for 20, we can talk for 25 years, but what was done? If this were done, I wouldn't be talking about it today. So, the problem is here, it's solved, it's solved by the Emergency Action Act. I believe that it is also being resolved by this bill and that there will probably be something else to be done and done to actually solve this problem to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u320	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would like to refer to what Mr Secretary has said that specialisations should be carried out in private only where programmes are not in the public, within the public network, but I wonder how such wrong priorities can be met. If we do not have developed programmes within the public network, then the public network, more specifically public health, needs to be upgraded in such a way that [[?]] such programmes may be covered. But it's not like there's a lot of training going on in private. As if these individuals had not received enough services in the past two years, during the term of government of Janez Janša. We have had calls to shorten waiting periods, which are not and will not shorten, they have only converted tens of millions of Slovenian public money into private pockets. Many of them were even employed in public hospitals, i.e. doctors of amphibians who did not apply to the waiting period reduction tender, even though they had the cadre and capacity to do so, but those individuals, as private individuals, used the call to reduce waiting periods to further lubricate themselves on public money. This is just one of the cases with which the Government of Janez Janša dismantles public health in its mandate. Of course, not as directly as we would like, because public health is rooted in us as a value between people and patients appreciate it. Indirectly, however, so that the public health system is poor, while additionally sung by the privileges and public money of various private parties, of course there is a strong opposition to the fact that the private sector is banned at the same time in public health institutions. Of course, that's not going under this government. Instead, we received a law on the table today, which, as I have already defined in the position of the parliamentary group, can be referred to as a typical lobbying law, written by measure, a medical and insurance lobby through a medical chamber, which unfortunately does not function as much as a professional association, which should, but acts as an interest association, as a lobbyist body of privileged work of the medical profession. It is said that certain medical mandarins, who occasionally appear on the list of the best paid public servants who have also received more than €10 000 of crisis allowances for work in the epidemic, etc. And now, in all this context, we would still be transferring the possibility of specialising in private. Look, I can only strongly oppose this, no matter how limited it takes place. But the problem we have is a well-fed public health network. Not that specialisations can be performed only in public hospitals, but not in private hospitals. We can say the same about the transfer of jurisdiction to the medical room. We know what these stories were like in the past. It is likely that this will be heard in the debate today, but I will repeat it again. The medical board of specializations did not call after a professional course, but after an interesting course in the way that there was a shortage of personnel in certain profiles of doctors, only because these, ladies and gentlemen of the medical community had secured their position, and now, with the words of Mr Kuštrin at the head of the whole country, they took the hostage, they took the patients, public health, etc. Here, however, we have a law that would give additional powers at the Chamber, from a certificate of language knowledge to a professional examination. Thank you, no thanks, equally we can say thank you, not thank you for the basic license for which we cannot avoid the impression in Levica that it is intended to observe the legal provisions that say that, when the doctor completes his schooling for so many years, he should first go to the public network, but not that, especially that doctors students from privileged companies can, if possible, already born within medical families can jump into some private practice, private networks and benefit their dads and moms from the influence to climb the medical hierarchy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u321	Thank you very much. He wanted to speak to the secretary of state, and he gets the word "mag" after him. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u322	Let me explain again. It is said that specialisation, the specialisation programme can be implemented or envisaged to be carried out outside the public health network only when this programme cannot be implemented. And two such cases. Medical work in transport and sport is required at the time of specialization for appropriate professional competence. Getting to know the work at the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for the purpose of assessing the work of the capacity, at the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance for the purposes of disability assessments, the knowledge in sports medicine is obtained at the Faculty of Sport. Following is the field of clinical pharmacology, here is the knowledge of this field of expertise, at the Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, the Centre for Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, at the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, at the Commission of the Republic of Slovenia for Medical Ethics. These are the areas that we are referring to, say, that is what needs to be ensured in the law so that specialisation programmes can be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u323	Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u324	I'm agreeing to talk about numbers and not teasing. So if you notice, I keep talking numbers. Maybe I'm getting it wrong, but if I can, I'll tell you what the source of the numbers is. This is the first starting point. And if even within health care we could talk less with emotion and only with numbers, some problems would be easier to solve because then we would also agree to compare health teams within state hospitals, between state and private, between our country and foreign countries, and it would be a lot easier to solve. That's why I really agree to the numbers. That's how we can solve things. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that, in essence, the system we have run so far, when we say in essence, let us give more money to health workers. And the numbers go up, the numbers don't go down. The numbers are growing. Not in all areas as fast as they are, but they are growing. He did not give sufficient results at this point because we have come to the point that when the numbers are growing, when we are unloading, we have more than 100,000 according to official data people who cannot get a personal doctor, including those who have had one in large health care homes, and are without them. That's what I'm trying to say, is that in fact, when we improve health conditions, we're always obliged to say, yes, but for patients we'll have to take care of. For example, we can lower the principals, we can, I don't know, spend more time on education, for whatever it is, but it can never be the way to keep the patient clean. That's all I'm saying. That's why I also said that maybe I'm on the opposition's side the one who might be the most favored of this marriage in all its shortcomings. Because I see in this law that it will be available to patients for several minutes and hours. This is what matters most to me. [[sign for the end of the debate]] it will be available for several minutes and hours to solve the problem. But when we do all this, we must not forget that we have been doing this for some time. We give more minutes at our disposal, we increase the number of personnel, we relieve all these outpatients, we increase by 50% in state hospitals. But then when we compare numbers, things don't work out. And my conclusion is only because we made an organizational lapisus, and because we don't always say first: he's an important patient. [[sign for the end of the debate]] He's a really important patient, and then everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? [[Yeah.]] Micah Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u326	Thank you for your word. I agree that we have to go through the numbers when we talk about our health system. Also where we talk about the personnel picture, perhaps mainly. A picture of needs that is then translated into a picture of how much and what kind of personnel we need can be based on information about waiting periods — how long they are waiting, why they are waiting, and so on. But the devil is in this detail that we do not have accurate data on what waiting periods exist in this country. We don't. We don't have that information. We still don't have them, even though we've been talking about waiting periods for years and years. Of course, I don't deny the existence of waiting days, far from it. Because they're real. However, I say we do not have specific information on this. We would need them first if we want to continue to talk about the needs that we have within health care - where we need additional specializations, where we need additional staff, what you need and so on. Now, if we don't have some kind of cross-section of the health needs of the population that might even best be reflected really in waiting times, and then we don't have data on these waiting periods, it's hard to draw out some conclusions as to what our human resources vision would be for us to complete the medical species. And since we don't have this kind of information about waiting lines, we're also going to have this kind of "flops" that happened in the case of a waiting period that won't shorten any of these waiting periods, but it's going to transfer a huge amount of public funds into private pockets. But if we don't have the exact numbers on the state of waiting times with us, and we have another number, it's even more tragic. It's that we have 100,000 people in the country without a personal doctor. 100,000 people who don't even have basic, rudimentary access to health care - health care that some people do, regardless of their efforts. We still see in this country as human rights and not as a business where a doctor comes who can pay for better care comes who has more money. How many patients, how many people in this country, will receive additional medical care from a personal doctor who is not now in possession of one of these 100,000 under the current Medical Services Act or his work? Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Because the purpose of this novel is not to solve any human resources issue yet to diagnose the problem in fact, it just wants to strengthen the Medical Chamber as an institution of a medical insurance lobby. This interpretation of the specialisation programme as well as how some are not carried out within the public health network and that it is then necessary to extend to private individuals I cannot accept, given that the secretary in reply and sub-response referred to even a palette of some other public institutions, which may not be health institutions, but are still public institutions. We're dealing with some dissonance here.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab Group to Article 5 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 15 and will therefore be discussed together. I am putting to the debate Articles 5 and 15 and the two amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 88th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4.40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.07.) (The sitting resumed at 4.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u328	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 4, 5. Items 6 and 3 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Does that sound bad? Look, we've got new speakers. They're supposed to be more out loud. [[adverts from benches]] I can't hear myself. [[…]] [[…]] [[talking to each other]] Until they do, I suggest we move on. I'm asking for some silence. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on amendments and additions to the law on identity cards in the context of the urgent procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the draft law, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. [[adverts from benches]] It's not working? Breakup. Is it working or not working? [[adverts from benches]] Is he okay? The sound has improved, too. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Long-term Care Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2021, published on the E-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing groups and the LMŠ to Article 3. Explanation of Miha Kordiš's voice on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u329	The Long-Term Care Act is a law for the privatisation of safe age. Nowhere is this written more clearly in the law than in its Article 3, which deletes the meaning of what is supposed to be a public network. Article 3 states that long-term supplies will be eligible for all possible operators. We're talking about a variety of independent entrepreneurs, we're talking about foreign corporations. But all of this is in the long-term supply law, in fact, one large public network to be fueled by public money, that is to say, the public network to expand the law in such a way that it covers everything, just everything, clears the difference between actual public institutions and private institutions. Why? Yes, of course, so that all business operations can access our public common money. Among other things, this problem is due to the fact of the level of care. On average, the supply levels in private concessionary homes are almost one third higher than in public homes. Why? Because caregivers and their families in public homes pay only the supply service, while in private concissionary homes they pay even more profits or take over the cost of investment just to be a private owner d.o.o. a foreign corporation in the name of their hardship and the need to provide for old age can still earn extra money. Instead of identifying John’s Government as a problem of high care and private care for the elderly as such, he does the opposite as a problem, address it, and address it. In the future, I would like to take more care of the elderly to the shoulders of various private people, among other things, I reiterate, also foreign corporations, which, by the way, has already passed the law at the Ministry of Labour, only to establish a lobbying network of private interest on which they could continue to rely, regardless of what further degradation of the public care of the elderly means for them and their families, either in terms of care or in terms of labour rights, which should be ensured within the care of the elderly. Of course we are. [[sign for the end of the debate]] in Levica have tabled an amendment that deletes the extension of long-term care, regardless of how poorly defined it is, to all possible forms of private form, profitable forms, the implementation of this long-term care. We hope that this amendment will enjoy appropriate support. If we are committed to the public interest, if we are committed to the primary care of the elderly as human rights, not as a business [[sign for the end of the debate]] and the hardship that one should earn, then a different vote should not be at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Please correct the point number. It's okay. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 5. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, SAB and the Non-Aligned Members to Article 7. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members to Article 10. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 11(1). We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 11 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 21. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 17. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 26. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Desus Group to Article 33 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. 84 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 9. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of Article 33 of the Desus Group to Article 1 has been adopted, the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to this Article has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 34. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 42. We're voting. 84 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 24. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 59. We're voting. 86 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 25. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 65. We're voting. 86 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 25. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 101. We're voting. 84 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 22. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to the new 127.a. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 48 votes against 22. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 128. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 24. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to new Article 128a. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 154(1). If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 6. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 129. We're voting. 84 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 14. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Non-Aligned Members to Article 136 under Article 1. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 153(2). If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment shall become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, it becomes a meaningless amendment to Article 136 of the Rules of Procedure of the Left Party and the LMŠ. Get Siter on behalf of the Member of Parliament, explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u331	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment and the related amendment proposed in the Common Left of the Member States calls for the maintenance of the aid and service allowance. The current law we have before us means that certain groups will no longer be entitled to the aid and service allowance. The aid and service allowance is just that, the aid and service allowance to those who need help and service, the financial compensation to enable them to afford at least some normal life, normal functioning. Of course, under pressure in the architecture of this law, under the pressure of the civil public, the professional public and the parliamentary opposition, the government has slightly pardoned and prepared a small sieve through which the beneficiaries of the aid and service allowance are sent through, but the truth lies in the fact that the current regulation in force in the law, in the proposed law and that we are trying to prevent it with these amendments, is the fact that only one small group of people who have otherwise been entitled is still 30 000 and more who urgently need it, thus the aid and service allowance is also abolished. So, the allowance for help and service, respected colleagues and colleagues, must remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u332	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and LMŠ to Article 136 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Rule 142. Sutter's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u333	Thank you very much. 142. Article 142, to which we are submitting this amendment, is very costly in the Long-Terms Act, and in one line very much of the technical information to which the articles of which the laws relate, let me take this opportunity to explain this government manoeuvre. People who have insured their family members or their spouses, partners, parents, by law, will receive an additional monthly cost of €28 under the law. Now, first of all, we need to understand what kind of people or what kind of family situations we talk about most. We are talking about situations where one of the members of the family is employed, the other is insured in compulsory health insurance through this first person because of the fact that these social security is itself, health security is not guaranteed. So, most of the time, we're talking about families with one employee. Let's imagine some younger family where one of the employees is still waiting for work because he hasn't had this happiness so far, in short, these people actually have the social goods in Slovenia right now about 65,000. And instead of putting long-term care and funding on the basis of some solidarity contribution where capital would also contribute, where necessary to contribute to the budget, the government prefers to place this burden on the shoulders of these groups of socially displaced or financially weak ones. The problem that we recognize in the Group, the problem that has also been identified by the Department of Health Insurance, namely this operational part, the institution which will have to implement the provisions of this law in the field, and the amendment to this article simply or this paragraph of this article, propose a deleterious paragraph of this Article. In the debate today, in particular, by Members and Members of the various groups, or I think that all the groups of Members have received some information on the approval of this step, so deleting this harmful provision for which we thank you in the Levica Group. The financing of the social state must be on capital, on a fair contribution of capital, but on a fair contribution of the budget, not on the shoulders of the weakest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mia Kordish in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u335	Thank you for your word. Let me start by saying that I will support our amendment to Article 142. Why? The Long-Terms Act should be a two-pronged law. The first part should cover the forms of care for the elderly that we will develop in the future. Here we are talking about building homes for older citizens, caring at home, protected dwellings, and all other forms of care for older people. Then there is the second part of the law, which is missing in this Long - Term Care Act, which the Government has brought into the National Assembly. This is the financial part of how we will fund the care of the elderly in the future through dedicated means. Although the issue of financing is precisely the reason why we have not had a long-term supply law for 20 years, and what is happening from the government to the government, the government has now brought in and considered one that does not have these financial resources to finance long-term supply sources. But further consideration has shown that some financial resources have this law. Among others in his articles he introduces into the future some unspecified contribution that people should pay, but this dirty work, the government leaves for another suit, [[Sign for the end of the debate]] Then, just a few days ago, we found that there was still an increase in the contribution of around €27 for those insured by their family members. This is a higher contribution to compulsory health insurance where it is a family member of a spouse or parent who is insured through them. In short, a rather hypocritical action that the government has used to make an additional "zacola" 65,000 people, which I believe passed most of the time. [[Sign for the end of the debate]] Members of Parliament and Members, whether sitting on the right, centre or left side of the National Assembly, and I hope that now that we have discovered this with united strength to support this amendment we will correct and unjustly raise our contributions [[Excluding microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u336	Thank you very much. We're voting. That's Rule 142, amendment. 86 Members and Members present, 85 votes against 1. [[The vote was 85.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 146. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 153. We're voting. 85 Members and Members present, 49 votes against 23. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD, Non-aligned Members to Article 136 was not adopted, it became an amendment to Article 153 of Article 2 without purpose. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Lawn Soup, LMŠ to 153rd Article 3. We're voting. 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSi, SDS and SMC to Article 154. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments of the LMŠ and SD groups of Members and of the Non-Aligned Members to this Article shall become irrelevant under the headings 2 and 3. Explanation of the vote by Jani Möderndorfer, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u337	Thank you very much, President. We will vote against this amendment for one reason in particular. In the LMŠ, SD and Non-Aligned Members Group, we have tabled two amendments to this same article, where we are essentially giving this government a very clear opportunity and opportunity to correct its mistake, if he really thinks about long-term care, then, of course, let it be possible much earlier and not only in 2025, or in one part, it is only in 2024. By the way, what's this all about? The point is that we're essentially holding hands with these amendments a little bit earlier. In addition to the second amendment, we undertake, of course, every time a government, one that will, of course, draw up a law that will regulate the financial part of which this government explains that it will come from somewhere and that someone will arrange it by 2023. Which means that within one year of the adoption of this law there is sufficient time to prepare everything necessary for the financial baselines. Which means, in other words, we can't count on a demographic fund that I just don't know when, we can't count on the budget forever, and most importantly, we have to tell people the truth about how much it's going to cost and who's going to pay it, and in particular how it's going to be calculated. Now, whether it's right or wrong, I think if the coalition thinks honestly, then let it not only sell words, but let it sincerely support our two amendments and give up its amendment. Because, of course, this one will crash. Of course, we will see now whether we mean it or not, or whether we will only sell words, especially coalitions. So if we are truly sincere about long-term care, both at the institutions and at the cash receipt and then for the family member himself and for the long-term care at home, then of course support the amendment under number 2 and 3 from the LMŠ Group, the Social Democrats and the Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u338	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 17. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of Article 154 of the NSI, SDS and SMC groups to Article 1 has been adopted, the amendments of the LMŠ, SD and the Non-Related Members to this Article under Article 2 and 3 have become irrelevant. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. Explanation of vote, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u339	Procedurally. I would ask the President to give us 15 minutes' breaks before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u340	15 minutes off. Let's pick it up at 5:30. (The sitting was suspended at 17.09.) (The sitting resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u341	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are proceeding with the meeting. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. I'm guessing we're not concluding. We're voting again. We're voting. Still the same unconscionable. The meeting will continue in 10 minutes, i.e. At 5 p.m. 41. (The sitting was suspended at 17.31.) (The sitting resumed at 17.41.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u342	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are proceeding with the meeting. I continue exactly, we are in the third vote. Procedural proposal, colleague Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u343	Thank you, President. I would like to request a 15-minute recess before deciding to consult the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u344	Okay, I'll give you 15 minutes. However, I would like to remind you that there is no more explanation for the vote because we are in the third vote. So we're moving on to 17.56. (The sitting was suspended at 17.42.) (The sitting resumed at 17.56)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u345	Dear fellows! We'll proceed with the session, with the point. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 42. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – third reading of the proposal for a law on space regulation, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 9. 12. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 343. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. Given that the proposal for a legislative amendment adopted in the second reading was not harmonised at the meeting of the parent working body, the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 6 which was published by an e-club. I give the floor to a representative of the government on the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u346	Dear Members and Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! The Government proposes a harmonisation amendment to Article 66. The harmonisation amendment to Article 66 is necessary as a result of the amendment adopted to Article 64 of the bill by the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as part of the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Space, which has resulted in internal non-compliance with the provisions of the draft law. The adoption of this amendment resulted in the restructuring and subsequent renumbering of Article 64, paragraphs 64, for which the reference to the right paragraph of Article 64 should be corrected in Article 66. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u347	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Bojan Purg, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Please, if you'll turn it off. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 12. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda – third reading of the proposal of the Construction Law, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the submission of the amendments tabled. 12. 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 165. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 159. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since the proposal for a second reading amendment is inconsistent, the Government has drawn up a harmonisation amendment to Article 91, which was published at the E-Club. Would you like a word from the government? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Purg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u348	Thank you for your word. The government is proposing a harmonisation amendment due to the internal non-compliance of the law in Article 91. In view of the amendment adopted to Article 5 adopted by the National Assembly in the context of the second defence at the 27th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, internal non-compliance with the law should be eliminated. The new regulation provides that, when the action is not fully notified, the building inspector will take action and the reference to the exemption would be linked to the provision of the municipal contribution wrongly, since the construction inspector is obliged to find that the application for the start of the construction was not made. At the same time, maintaining the record would mean that the payment of the adopted amendment would be carried out by the construction inspector, while at the same time there would be a provision which would require the municipal inspector to identify the same fact. Since two authorities in the same case must not decide in separate procedures, this anomaly must be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u349	Thank you very much. We're voting. Excuse me, is there anyone else who would like to discuss the harmonisation amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. I'm calling for a debate. We're voting. [[adverts from benches]] We'll do it again. Something wasn't right. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u350	Thank you for your word, Madam President. There are many reasons why we will oppose this law in Levic. We have already said this in all the proceedings so far, especially this law is completely contaminated. First of all, they've been working on the ILO to re-stemulate the full legal service that should be involved in this law, and to create some kind of apparent conflict by architects and engineers. Then it turns out there's a whole bunch of suckers in this marriage. On the table we received an amendment to Article 66, which would once again trigger the privatisation of the water, and we defended it. We've been trying for seven hours since the eight-hour session to stop it. Then this bill again prevents participation in civil society, NGOs and practically despite the Minister's promise to do so, then with high fees he refrained from this deterrent effect of the complaints. Then it is also a matter of disputed legalisation of black buildings, which are written on the skin of certain individuals, and the legal office which made up this law, which also happens to represent these same individuals, to reduce legal certainty for investors in the event of the purchase of illegal objects. In short, I could count it and more, but I don't think it's right to repeat ourselves over and over again. This marriage is bad. This law is this law is unnecessary. Just two years after the previous one, coordinated by stakeholders for more than 10 years, comes to the table again. We could change maybe 2 articles that didn't fit, but no, more than 500 pages of a law in some law-abiding Latvian where he's hiding and he's always hiding a lot of what we're going to see in the future. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And we'll be warm. So that in Levic we will absolutely oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u352	Good evening on behalf of the Non-Aligned Members. This marriage promise that building permits will be issued in 30 days is a pure fairy tale. Also, these legalizations, which he talks about and intends to enforce the law and, of course, the minister's team, are among the basses, with the spirit of corruption, which is eager to get out of this bottle. This law "extremely" architectural profession, in the long run, also threatens the quality of future interventions into space, the quality of our architecture. In fact, it is cruelly beating the reputation of contemporary Slovenian architecture, which will no longer be the same as it once was. The Minister simply does not understand the role of individual professions in design. Since the project manager can be a representative of any profession and not in the project of the dominant profession, we suspect that the proposed solutions have been written on the skin of individual engineering bureaus. The media are already predicting that if the law is passed, one Member among us will finally legalise its black construction. Loyalty is rewarded on the rewarder of fashionable ways. We believe that the proposed solutions are burdened with corrupt risks and are therefore compromised to the point where the Ministry should withdraw the contested decision from the law. Therefore, we will vote against the non-aligned Members - due to the imposition of inequality of professions, the discrimination of architects and the harmful implementation of legalisations across the board, irrespective of the consequences such illegal objects leave in space. If this law is passed, our rare architectural heritage may be only an unworthy trail in space, Plečnik, Ravnikar and all living architects, despite. And, of course, the record of a brief period of an unheard-of swallowing ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Nataša Sukič. [[advertising from the hall]] Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. Natasha Sukich in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u354	Of course I'll vote against it. I couldn't look in the mirror to sign under the legalization of corruption. Legalized corruption is the law. So I'm going to be absolutely, and shame is that, you laugh, you legalize this corruption, that we all see what's going on, because we're not stupid, I wouldn't sign anything like that. I mean, it's against all my principles in life. By voting absolutely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Franz Duck in his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u356	Thank you. Because my colleague, Bane, has forgotten Vurnik, and because I have a place for Vrounik, also because of the spouses of Vurnik, I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u357	Thank you very much. We are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 37. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services, as part of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, i.e. by deciding on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled; 12. 2021 received on e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 2. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 11. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the same proposal to Article 11 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 5. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 15. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 15 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 7. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 2 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 11 has become irrelevant. As the amendment of Article 5 of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups has not been adopted, the amendment of Article 15 has become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u358	Thank you for your word, chairman. The government novel of the Medical Service Act itself says that it will slightly strengthen our health system with an additional workforce, or in such a way that medical students can become more involved in the practical implementation of activities, or in a way that facilitates the process of obtaining medical personnel from abroad, unfortunately none of this is true. Once again, we are dealing with a typical lobbyist law as many times as we have since the government of Janez Janša. Only that this law has written according to the measure of concrete pears that would entangle riverbanks or pharmaceutical corporations, which would subject themselves to the provision of medicines, but according to me, a medical insurance lobby. The first thing this law does is to strengthen the role of a medical organisation and to delegate additional powers to it. We are talking about this professional exam about the possibility of a medical room to check the language competences of doctors, I believe, because the Medical Chamber knows terminology better and would be able to issue new language certificates. What happens if we give the Medical Chamber even more powers than we have seen in the past. The medical room was the one that held scissors and canvas specialization in her hands, and what happened? Because the chamber has long been no longer functioning as a professional association, but as an exhibition of the medical insurance lobby, because the institution has been kidnapped by those small castes of privileged doctors within our healthcare system, specializations have not been called upon for the needs of a trained medical staff only in the needs of patients and public health care, but in the way that privileged positions of certain profiles within the medical system have been protected, so that some individuals have taken the whole country, patients and the whole public health system, from which it has been for some time forced for even more of the strengths of the victim, and we are all others in this country who need medical care. [[Incomprehensible]] Further deepening the powers the Medical Chamber certainly has is not part of the solution, but part of the problem. This is the first reason why we will vote against this law in Levica. However, the second reason lies in the fact that the law extends a range of health professionals who can obtain the mandate of the Ministry of Secondary Training and Specializations to private individuals, so that you are one step smaller than in the past years in order to privatise our public health system. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-09-SDZ8-Izredna-88.ana.u359	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 28. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 88th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
