ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Franc Jurša, Alexander Reberšek, Nick Prebil from 9.30 a.m. to 12 p.m. and Sam Bevk until 3 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Minister for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Simona Kustec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It is my great pleasure that the proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation is being dealt with so nicely in your house as well. Let me say that the law once again in terms of values, in terms of principles, represents what I believe is also the common red thread of the principles of the future civilised and knowledge-based society. What does that mean? This means that we have been preparing the law in an inclusive, cooperative manner with all those groups for which this law is written. That we did this in dialogue. That we have succeeded because of the development potential, the importance, the necessity of this law, both for society and for the economy, transcends normal inter-party interests and conflicts and we have understood by consensus why this law is so much needed and important. I also have to say with great satisfaction, I am proud to say that the proposal of this law is internationally comparable to the best and most resilient legal definitions in the most developed scientific research countries in the world. In addition, through the principles, the content covers everything that is now, together with the conclusion of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, all Member States with the European Commission and the European Parliament and other European associations in this area are defined in the so-called Common European Research Area for the Future. If I touch those key solutions in substance. This is an important institutional solution, a new institutional framework through the establishment of a special development council, which will reflect exactly what I have said and reflect the inclusive membership of all the groups to which the content relates. Funding is being set up in a way that allows stability, the autonomous development of scientific research activities, its operators, including the definition and commitment of a percentage of GDP of public funds to be allocated to scientific research. The activity is defined as a horizontal activity, which means that it involves different sectoral policies and, above all, solutions to close cooperation with industry and the economy. The autonomy of public research organisations, including the transfer of property of a State in the management of a public research organisation, is increasing, following the example of universities with the possibility of establishing and establishing an economic society. Certainly internationally, all the conditions for Slovenia to become an attractive destination for research work, with an emphasis on returning Slovenian researchers and researchers working abroad. Stimulating the award of successful researchers and researchers, addressing ethics and integrity in science, also by establishing a national Council for Ethics and Integrity in Science and equal opportunities, defining open science, defining public service. What am I trying to say for a conclusion? We have taken note of the amendments tabled by the Group of Members for consideration. I can say that we support the amendments of the coalition, which are legally necessary, are not of a substantive nature. The other amendments will also be made by our Secretary of State during the debate. If the National Assembly approves the law in the second reading, we will propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting. I thank you for your constructive cooperation, your work and all the good scientific research activities of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a working mother, and I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State and all present. At its 23rd regular meeting on 3 November 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspects. Her representative drew attention to the subordination of certain parts of the bill's proposal, since the regulation of the individual areas leaves the sub-legislative regime without an adequate substantive legal framework, which raises the issue of the compatibility of the law with the principle of legality. It also explained that the proposed amendments to the ZPS made their comments to a large extent to be taken into account, while the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport provided written explanations to the others. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, delivered its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the proposer, followed by a representative of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, who said, inter alia, that the aim of Slovenia was to create conditions that would allow for a breakthrough and to include Slovenia as a strong innovation country. The debate followed in which members and members of the Committee welcomed the adoption of the bill. Some felt that marriage would be a good basis for work, science and research. They explained that research was necessary and that good planning was at stake and that it was an area of strategic importance for the country. Research is also important for the stability of the economy and society in general. They pointed out that there would be no development without young researchers and that linking research with the economy was essential. Science must also have its own development in both education and other areas. It is important to transfer knowledge to all levels of society and to society as a whole. They explained that science is the one that dictates measures and that politics must bring them in. However, despite the fact that they agreed at the substantive level to the proposal for a law, others had comments on the determination of salaries for researchers to work on projects for a certain period of time with internal acts. They considered that the top researchers applying for the most important calls were top researchers and therefore the derogation from the applicable wage system was justified and urgently needed. They also welcomed open access to scientific publications and cited, as an example, the University of Maribor, which has already prepared a platform for this purpose. Some criticism was expressed regarding stable funding for private research organisations and the relationship between academic mandarins, so to speak, young researchers and the importance of the public research sphere. They considered that 1% of the GDP of state funding for scientific research should be achieved as soon as possible and that the law should therefore be implemented as soon as possible. They also pointed out the potential social risks of transferring property ownership from the Republic of Slovenia to individual public research institutions and the possible responses of other public sector employees with regard to the withdrawal from the pay system. They also presented their opinions and opinions to a number of those invited to the meeting, who welcomed the law, which will regulate the scientific research area and make it possible to enrich Slovenian society and the economy. The Committee adopted amendments to Article 108 of the SDS, NSI and SMC's parliamentary groups, with the exception of the amendment to Article 108 and the SD Group's amendment to Article 13. It also adopted amendments to Articles 13 and 93 of the bill. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he voted on all the articles together and adopted them. Thus, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended draft law, which forms an integral part of the report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the 25th meeting held a general debate on the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups today, so we are moving on to a discussion on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15. 11. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u6	Good morning, nice greeting, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We will support this proposed amendment of the Left in the LMŠ. Why? Because a new point is being laid down, which states that the Agency is obliged to examine the conflicts of interest of persons participating in evaluation procedures or members of professional bodies. When examining conflicts of interest, the Agency shall follow the example of comparable agencies in the international space and the conflict of interest shall be understood in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the prevention of corruption. It seems important to us that the contrary to the interests of those involved in these proceedings be checked. I'm not going to list things that have happened in history on the ARS because you probably know them, at least they know them at the Ministry. I think it's a good idea that these contradictions are limited. In fact, everything too much is happening in the academic space, according to the local word, these kindergartens, and we know why these kindergartens are happening, so it is only right that with at least one part of this law these kindergartens are limited to our own, of course, that we understand each other. As we say, in LMSH we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mrs. Lydia Wildeak Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thanks again. We will also support this amendment. Why? Because some things in the ARS need to be arranged differently than they are now. In fact, it's unacceptable that things like this happen this year. If you remember, some foreign evaluators have not even received applications in a foreign language, and such things are unacceptable. Therefore, it is necessary to allow people who apply for invitations to tender to appeal against the decision they have received. The objection put forward I think is a right, and it seems important to me, as previously said, that some things on the ARS are starting to do a little differently than they have done before. As we say, we will support this in LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 93 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Ma'am Moica the Boxer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Article 93 is supplemented by a small word, “at least”, but is very important. If I read the first paragraph, it now reads: "In spite of Article 13 of this Act, the proportion of GDP earmarked for state funding in scientific research activities increases by at least 0.08 percentage points per year under this Act until it reaches 1% of GDP." In doing so, let me say that we are happy to be able to write something like this down, and of course we support it. Indeed, this means that, if the state budget succeeds, it will be possible, as quickly as possible, to reach 1% of the gross social product in terms of dedicated money for science. Of course, the law itself is welcome, arranged, and also brings many other good things, is ambitious. This correction here also contributes to ambition. Slovenia has the potential of both nature and people to make a truly leading country, not by quantity, because we are a small nation, but by the quality of our work and science. Ambitiousness is what Slovenia has shown in this crisis, where we achieve the best results with regard to the economy, and it is sad that we are not united, and this is taking into account the cod of measures. I believe that with greater funding for science, however, science will become more reputable in society as a whole, not only in the part of society, and that we will be able to believe in science and our scientists, who are also established around the world, much more than today, when you have doubts at the threshold of Parliament. But here we are, and this marriage is good, this amendment is great, and that is why this amendment needs to be supported, and I call on everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 97 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Yes, two registered. First of all, Mrs. Mojca Škrynjar, behind her is Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The amendment regulates the way in which acts are enforced. In fact, the matter is quite tense over time, and we hope that public institutions will be able to do so. I call on all recipients of stable funding to act as soon as possible, so that funding and also the law will be enforced as necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all present, especially to the Ministry of Education team! I will support the amendment to Article 97 as well as the other amendments so that I will not advertise with everyone, because all these amendments are ready to enter into force as soon as possible, that is, in 2022. As you know, the committee envisaged that the year 2023, but the wish is that already in 2022, and here, these amendments set deadlines within which institutions must prepare their sub-laws. I believe that they will succeed and that they are all working together to make the marriage work as soon as possible. As it is said, I will not then comment on the other amendments, as these deadlines are mainly set out, including how the first stable financing agreement is concluded and so on. I am pleased, indeed, that the law is ready to reach such a broad consensus that it will live as soon as possible in practice. And truly sincere congratulations to all who have participated in this drafting of the law, and especially to the team of the Ministry of Education. I will support these amendments and, of course, I will be happy to see the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 98 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 99 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 101 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I didn't intend to apply for the debate, although I still have the code of the researcher, but let's be clear about this, let's say that this is what the team that was previously at the Ministry under Minister Pickal was doing, that the Moroccan colleague, the secretary of state, who, when he caught Janša on the lie, had to go. So much for Simone Custec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mrs. Moica the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u18	I want to replicate to Mr. Dr. Runk. Dr. Duck, I think it's always necessary to look at good things for a long time and that when one government leaves, it doesn't mean that all of its work goes to waste, but that means that the next government upgrades this work. Thus, I would say that this intangible heritage is growing, and in this way the nation or citizens can best date each other. So, of course, I, like you, acknowledge all those who have worked on this law since the very beginning. However, it is important that there is so much consensus at this time that marriage enjoys broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with a team, Secretary of State! I will first thank my fellow opposition colleagues who have already decided within themselves to support this law. As far as the amendments are concerned, we Members of New Slovenia will support the coalition amendments. We really are at a time when it's Thanksgiving. It's a long list, and I don't even know him. Thank you all for making a very good marriage. And just one more thought. Ladies and gentlemen, the most frequent leaps in the development of human society have been during times of crisis and disaster. People responded to them and respond in different ways, and for the rescue changes, new knowledge was always due. New knowledge. We must also be aware of this in the midst of current problems, as is said at this moment. The key solutions are here and there, indeed, due to the individual’s instantaneous inspiration, but never without an environment that encourages and builds up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Reploco's got dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you. I am pleased that the leader of the Nova Slovenija Group has said latently that this government is a disaster. I would, however, like to see what you have said, Mrs Škrinjar, apply to all areas, not just that. But after 20 months, you woke up to what you said to me earlier, and let John Janša know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u23	The next debate is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, again. The amendments tabled by the coalition have, of course, come about because the opposition then voted on their intention to bring the law into force only 1. 1. 2023. In the opposition, of course, we tried to put it into effect as soon as possible or as quickly as possible, as university Rectors and Institute Directors have said. The acts need to be adapted, this is not the issue at all, and these were, in fact, known at the Ministry all the time. Because, as it is said, 95% of this law was prepared in the government of Marjan Šarc. That is why I would really like to thank those who did so at the time, Dr. Juret Gasparic and Mrs Jani Javornik, and also the current Dr. Slavinac with his team, because he added only that dart to and added, which is of course also important. However, I am pleased that we have managed to harmonise at least one law in the opposition and coalition, a law that will very much alter our society, and I am pleased. At the same time, I would like the current coalition to hear all the good warnings in all the other laws the opposition is giving, let's say those warnings in the Police Act, given what happened yesterday, I don't need to explain what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 103 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. All amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the criminal code within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Zlatko Ratej, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u26	Dear Members, Members and other Members! The Government has prepared a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Penal Code, which has been the ninth in line since its entry into force in November 2008. As I have already said at the meeting of the parent committee, it is not the most extensive changes and additions by quantity, but by content it affects a number of different areas, as the basic reason for the draft law to transpose a number of provisions, directives of the European Union and conventions into Slovenian domestic criminal law. The amendments and additions to existing criminal offences, as well as some of the new offences contained in those documents, affect the areas of the suppression of terrorism, trafficking in human organs and counterfeit medicinal products and other medical products. There is also a regulation on prohibited practices in sport and on the destruction of the world cultural heritage and a new offence of enforced disappearance in the context of a crime of abduction. There is also an improvement in the criminal law regime for illegal infringements into information systems and the criminal justice treatment of misuses of the financial instruments market and counterfeiting of money and protection against fraud by non-cash means of payment. Several of the proposed amendments to this bill were based on proposals from the practice of the competent authorities. The debate on the Committee on Justice has shown that there are no major contradictions with regard to most of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Code. However, according to my assessment, the Ministry duly clarified the identified dilemmas of both the representatives of the competent authorities and the members of the committee in the written reply concerning the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the meeting of the Committee. The articles of the bill are also improved by amendments to the coalition tabled on the basis of some opinions and warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service. With regard to the proposed amendments and additions to Articles 132 and 135 of the Penal Code, which lay down the offences of coercion and threat, on which the most debates and objections on the home committee were held, I should recall that the Committee of the National Court of Justice and the Committee of the National Assembly on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government are at a joint emergency meeting on 19 January. 2. 2021 At the time of its consideration of the agenda item The degree of hostility, exclusion and attacks against individuals and organisations on the basis of their values, beliefs and the world view has been adopted, inter alia, by which they have proposed to the Ministry of Justice to supplement the existing criminal offence in order to ensure that threats to the death of the President of the State, the President of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the State Council, ministers, members of the National Assembly, state councils, constitutional judges and other state officials and their family members are prosecuted on official duty without the proposal of the injured party. The opposition has also tabled amendments to Article 43 and 45 of the amendment to the Penal Code, which postpones the application of the law for one year after its entry into force with regard to the change in the manner in which the perpetrators of the crime are prosecuted and for four months after the application of the whole law has been put into effect. With regard to the application of the Code later, as provided for in its application, I would point out that Article 7 of the Penal Code provides that the perpetrator of the offence shall be subject to the law applicable in the course of the offence. The laws on amendments and additions to the Penal Code therefore rarely specify the entry into force and application differently, but in such a case they delay the application of amendments to the Code. This is based on the second paragraph of Article 28 of the Constitution. This provides that the offences which are criminalised shall be determined and punished under the law which was applicable when the act was committed, unless the new law is milder. With regard to the proposed suspension of the application of the whole law in addition to this, I would also point out the need for the early adoption and implementation of the proposed amendment of the Penal Code in order to avoid the consequences of non-compliance with international obligations. The monetary penalties and daily amounts for each day of delay in the implementation of the Directives of the European Union may mean a million-dollar country. In view of the urgency presented, I would like to ask Members and Members of the Council of Europe to support the adoption of the amendment on the basis of the European Commission's procedure and the recommendations of the Council of Europe. If business conditions are met, I propose that a third consideration of the bill be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Justice as a working body by the mother, and I give the floor to Mr Blaž Pavlin, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code as a parent working body at its 32nd session. 11. 2021. In an additional explanation for the articles, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zlato Ratej said that the proposed amendment brought changes to the content of very different areas of regulation. The proposed amendments aim primarily to harmonise the Penal Code with the directives of the European Union, the Council of Europe conventions and other international conventions, taking into account the proposals made by the competent authorities, in particular in the case-law and case-law, and the decision of the urgent meeting of the Committee of the National Court of Justice and the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of February 2021. The representative of the legislative and legal service, Katarina Kralj, said that the comments from the legal opinion were partly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups or the written explanations provided by the Ministry of Justice. It reiterated its comments on Articles 1 and 5 which allow conditional conviction to remain under threat of termination of a conditional conviction and sentence after the expiry of the probation period, which is contrary to the purpose of the conditional conviction. Article 15 introduces a qualified form of crime of coercion against an official for the purpose of intimidation and would, from the point of view of the system of criminal offences, refer to the chapter on crimes against public order and peace, while at the same time it is very similar to the offence to prevent an official act or to avenge an official, thereby avoiding difficulties in the legal qualification of the relationship between the two offences. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, there is also a dispute over the provision of Article 17, which changes the manner of prosecution if the crime of threat is committed against the highest representatives of the State or their neighbours. State Councilwoman Bojana Potočan said that the State Council Commission had supported the proposed amendment, but pointed out that new articles, which were disputed for the professional public, had been added after the completion of the expert and interdepartmental coordination, and that they were not properly presented and more broadly coordinated. The Commission therefore supports the comments of the professional public, in particular the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the Bar of Slovenia, the Legal and Legal Service. The representative of the State Prosecutor's Council, Tamara Gregorčič, said that the State Prosecutor's Council opposes changes in criminal legislation arising from current social situations and does not have a basis for analysis. In particular, the proposed amendments to the threats have not been presented and coordinated with the professional public. Supreme Judge Marjeta Švab Shirok said that each proposed solution was supported and some of the content was not familiar with in the context of professional coordination. In so doing, the Supreme Court does not object to the fact that the perpetrators of criminal offences would be prosecuted on an official basis in relation to the performance of the judicial function, in particular in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the judiciary and the appearance of the impartiality of the judges. Chief State Prosecutor Mirjam Kline said that the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office was also not familiar with the entire content of the proposed novel during the professional coordination phase. With regard to the proposed new qualified form of criminal offence of coercion against an official with a view to intimidation, they consider that it is not necessary, as it could lead to confusion in legal qualification and make the evidentiary procedure more difficult. In the debate, opposition Members drew attention to the professional public's warnings about their lack of awareness or non-involvement in professional coordination and called for the hearing to be suspended in the National Assembly. It was also proposed that the Committee should make a public presentation of its opinions before further consideration of the proposed amendment, but the proposal did not receive support. The proposed new qualified form of crime of coercion against an official for the purpose of intimidation, in their view, undermines the system of criminal offences and will make it even harder for the perpetrators to be prosecuted. They objected to the proposed changes in the prosecution of the threat committed against the state's top representatives or their neighbors. They therefore proposed that the Committee, when adopting its amendment, delete this Article, but this was not adopted below. The coalition members welcomed the proposed amendments and warned that the ongoing justifications for street violence had led to an escalation in recent weeks. The Committee further decided on the amendments tabled and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Jani Ivanuša. He will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u30	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, nice greeting! Greetings to the representatives of the Ministry and to all others present in the Chamber! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. The new Penal Code is in particular compliance with several European Union directives and Council of Europe conventions and other international conventions. In view of the fact that 13 documents are involved, each individual can form an opinion on how much more sovereign we are as a single country. This novel shows how strongly we are involved in international relations and how we put rules that are the product of the work of foreigners into our legal order. It's about some kind of melting or creating uniform rules. This is how we step for the international environment. I'm sorry, it's our reality. We welcome, however, the arrangements to supplement the criminal offence of the threat written by our lawyers. So far, it has been considered that if people threatened the highest representatives of the State, including Members of the Council of State, members of the Government, the judges of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court and their neighbors, they had to make their own motion for prosecution, and the amendment provided that prosecution would begin on official duty. We believe that such a way will stop many protestors, angry citizens or anti-total citizens from sending bullets, threatening letters, the idea of marching with a motor saw and promoting hatred and death. The prosecutions and the courts should finally start working on these cases. I think the last few months have shown that the situation has escaped control. Apologize for street violence, threats and hostile speech without epilogue in the judicial branch of government, calling for changes. The law enforcement authorities stand by the perpetrators of the crime, the threats and the latter passively support them. If such practices were to occur abroad, international instruments would also be adopted to condemn such acts. Since it is not a global threat or a global response is not needed, it is not right, however, to remain silent. Threats against officials must not be equated with criticism of authority. Regardless of the political options that the individual official comes from and is a victim of threats, this is inappropriate and must be subject to prosecution and sanctions. We welcome the amendment to Article 308 which lays down the offence of the prohibited crossing of the border or territory of the State by which criminality is extended. The applicant has found a good solution, after which it is sufficient to prove that such an offence has been committed with a view to obtaining the property benefit, but no actual payment is required for this service anymore. The conduct of the movement of foreigners throughout the territory of the State with a view to obtaining property benefits is also punishable. It is right to tighten criminal policy against foreigners, as the situation on the ground is critical. Practice shows that foreigners were taught, namely, to say that they were hitchhiking, and thus avoid criminal proceedings. Such conduct is far from humanitarianism. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next Mr Jure Ferrjan will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u32	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code aims to comply with international instruments and documents of the acquis of the European Union, i.e. international conventions and directives. Articles 8 and 153 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which, inter alia, provide that laws and other rules must comply with the generally applicable principles of international law and international treaties which oblige the Republic of Slovenia. However, the draft law before us also contains and takes into account some of the proposals made by the competent authorities in practice. I would like to point out the amendment prepared and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the conclusions of the Joint Emergency Meeting of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government held on 19 February this year. It is a matter of supplementing the third paragraph of Article 135 of the Penal Code, which deals with threats, in such a way as to ensure that suspects of criminal offences are prosecuted against the highest representatives of the State and that their neighbors are prosecuted on official duty. I would add, however, that the statement of State representatives is summarised in accordance with the existing and applicable Article 353 of the Penal Code, which provides for the offence of violence against the highest representatives of the State and their neighbours, including Members of the State Council, members of the Government, Judges of the Constitutional and Supreme Court. For example, allow me, for information as a mecca, to say that the existing 353rd Article of the Penal Code, that is, the applicable article in the law in force, also defines the term “second violence against the highest representatives of the State” and provides for a prison sentence of at least 15 years. The proposed changes are therefore a response to the increased spread of intolerance, hostility and threats, which can be said to be characteristic of Wednesdays and Fridays' protests, and we are increasingly witnessing them on social networks. Respected and respected, threats, many times even death threats cannot be equated with criticism of the work of power or politics, but it is a crime. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that such a change is justified and that it is a good change to propose a prosecution after an official duty, a proper decision, a good change. At the same time, I would point out that the very signs of the crime do not change with this change. It's just a matter of procedure. Respected and respected, we always advocate freedom of speech and the power of dialogue in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but at the same time we strongly condemn intolerance, hatred and any threats. It is therefore right that the policy reacts and that this also helps to help improve the level of dialogue, the level of discourse in Slovenian society, and I hope that the area will also improve politically. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Andreja Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u34	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Not only the novels of the Water Act and the latest example of the Construction Law, where you both added articles after a public hearing, this time you also used the same pattern of conduct in the amendment of the Penal Code. After all stakeholders have already aligned themselves with the proposed legislative changes, you have introduced into the law a professionally uncoordinated amendment of the law. While this is a comprehensive amendment to the Penal Code, which should mainly contain provisions implementing the requirements of signed conventions and directives, the Government has, as has already been said, included in the draft law some other substantive amendments. And it was these who triggered the negative reactions of individual judicial stakeholders. In particular, there are problematic changes in the criminal offence of coercion and threat, which provide for a different regime if they are directed against officials or the highest national representatives of the policy. In fact, it is a continuation of a story that the coalition has already begun in the course of its crimes. Let us recall the amendments to the new Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which ended the legislative path in September. In the proposed amendment to the offence of coercion and threat, two of the main judicial stakeholders, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the Bar Association, in their response to the proposal for a law, pointed to the lack of legal consistency and unfair conduct of the Government, which at the last minute added new content to the harmonised bill. Moreover, the Government's inadmissible and unfair conduct is also evidenced by the fact that the Government referred to the participation of two professors from the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana and the Institute of Criminology, who denied it. In terms of contention, both the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and the Bar Association, and last but not least the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, pointed to the controversy, incompetence and even infringement of the proposed amendment of the two offences mentioned. By warning and warning, we joined the LMŠ Group with other opposition colleagues, but unfortunately, once again we were hit by a coalition voter who once again without shame with all the substantive and professional arguments of everyone I listed looked at the page. The new law is unacceptable to the LMŠ Group because of the two subsets who have landed a post festival in the novel, as it introduces the division into our society of first- and second-class citizens, where the first before the law is more protected than the second, or in other words, where others are treated more strictly before the law than the first. For the LMŠ Group, the perception of society, as practiced by this government, is unacceptable and we will therefore oppose the proposed novelties.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues! The Penal Code is a fundamental system act of substantive criminal law in the Republic of Slovenia. It is one of the more sensitive legal areas and therefore all its changes must be well thought out and professionally justified, based on in-depth analyses. Therefore, there is a need for special caution in amending criminal legislation, and this is certainly not a room for political mixing. However, in this proposal, amendments to the Penal Code drawn up by the Government contain some such provisions which are not professionally harmonised or which are in uniform opposition to them. It is clear, therefore, that these provisions have been proposed solely because of some private interests, in which case the interests of the current ruling authorities. After the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace had fallen in the National Assembly, which would impose high fines for misconduct against representatives of the authorities, the Government was once again trying to amend the Penal Code. The Government proposes to change the way a criminal offence is prosecuted if the offence has been committed against the highest representatives of the State or their neighbours. In this case, the prosecution would start on an official duty rather than on the proposal of the injured party. This is a change that the professional stakeholders were not aware of since it was subsequently introduced in the proposal for a code. Of course, it is an unthinkable and unprofessional provision proposed because of the current political situation, which is absolutely unacceptable. The basis for amending legislation should be a statistical analysis of the data on criminal charges filed by high-level representatives of the State due to such behaviour in recent years and not merely a flat-rate reference to public-known cases. If we quote the U.S. Attorney's Office's comments. That regulation is therefore problematic in terms of the constitutional principle of equality before the law, since it does not appear to be a sustainable and convincing argument that just because someone performs one of the functions listed, it would not be necessary to make a proposal for prosecution. The dispute over that provision would immediately appear, for example, in the event that a neighbour threatens a neighbour with irregular neighbourly relations and not because of his decision regarding his work. The new threat does not link to the performance of an individual’s work. In this way, the text drafted is absolutely constitutionally controversial and violates the principle of equality before the law. Thus, the crime of threat is one of the crimes pursued under official responsibility, but only on the proposal of the injured party. Since it is a protected right to personal security, the injured person will not make such a proposal if he does not feel threatened, intimidated or upset. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also points out that, from a legal point of view, it is more appropriate to prosecute the offence on the basis of the express will and consent of the injured party. However, some other provisions falling out of professional coordination are also controversial. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u37	Excuse me, colleague Meira Hot. Mr Ferrjan, Mr Kaloh and Mrs Professional Fellow, please step outside if you have a mini meeting because it is unfair for a colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Some other provisions which have fallen out of professional coordination, as pointed out by experts and also by the Legal and Legislative Service, are therefore controversial. For example, a change in the criminal offence of coercion, which introduces a new qualified form of crime of coercion against an official with a view to intimidation. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office considers it unnecessary as it could cause confusion and make the evidence more difficult. Similarly, the Bar Association considers that this is unnecessary and even a constitutionally controversial change. The dispute is also an amendment to Article 1 which provides for the revocation of the conditional judgment. The Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the uncertainty of the provision and the representative of the Bar Association to the senselessness and potential constitutional dispute. In the Chamber of Lawyers, they also object to the amendment of the creditor's criminal offence. It is quite terrifying what harmful and politically motivated legislative changes the current government has already proposed in this mandate. On the other hand, it is absurd that the Government has not yet prepared a proposal for amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which it should have prepared because it was imposed on it by the Constitutional Court after finding unconstitutionality. No, this government continues to rule with decrees and causes the erosion of the rule of law. In the opposition, we have drafted amendments that delete the most controversial provisions. If they are not accepted, then the Social Democrats will not support the proposed amendments to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs Natasa Sukić. It will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! We have before us a proposal for extensive amendments to the Penal Code. Given the considerable frequency of amendments to one of the most important laws in our legal system, it would be time to adopt a new code that would represent a new comprehensive body. Let me just mention that this is already another amendment to the Code this year and another amendment to the legislative process has already been introduced. In this paper, most of the changes are due to adaptations to the new European directives, and some of them, according to the proposaler, are required by the practice of the judicial authorities. But as it is the tradition of this coalition, that's not all. This time, too, without politically motivated subversives, it's not going to work. At least one proposed article is due to the shameful political practice of the current government. After an indignant public response and the referendum's announcement failed, an attempt was made to specifically address protestors who use harsh criticism of the authorities in the Law on Public Order and Peace, this time the Government is trying to fraudulently impose specific sanctions on the critics of the President of the Government and other top representatives of the political class and their neighbors in the new Penal Code. Notwithstanding the fact that the already existing Penal Code correctly defines a crime of threat in a way that starts with a proposal from the injured party. The proposed addition to Article 135, paragraph 3, of the Penal Code is substantially amended by this Article. Cases of threats to the highest representatives of the State and their neighbours will now be dealt with on an official basis, which is extremely controversial in at least two aspects. The first is that the initial assessment of whether the threat in question is indeed a threat puts the victim’s subjective judgements directly at the disposal of the law enforcement authorities. This undermines the current regime whereby the injured person himself has to make a proposal for the initiation of criminal proceedings. It can also do so orally. The fact that it is the highest representatives of the country and their neighbours does not change these personal components of perception of the reality of the threat in any way. Another controversial aspect is the creation of a new category of victims. The additional protection of the highest authorities and their neighbors due to threats constitutes the controversial creation of different legal standards for different groups of people and thus the creation of two categories of the population. A similar opinion is the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, which stated that the amendment is constitutionally controversial because it violates the principles of equality before the law and that there is no sustainable or convincing argument for the proposed different treatment of state officials and all others. In addition, government officials are a specially protected group of people, not a particularly vulnerable or threatened group that would need stricter protection or regulation. The proposed regulation also opposes the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, by which high-level political function holders must pass on more, including to cities of grave and excessive public criticism, and no less than ordinary people without public functions. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly explicitly stressed that the provision of greater legal protection for the country's highest representatives by special law is not in line with the spirit of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. We know that the boundary between threat and criticism can be quickly erased, so we need to be particularly careful about this. It could well be that the repressive authorities would also see the criticism of the highest representatives of the authorities as a threat and, following an official duty, begin to prosecute. Such legislative tightening can serve only one purpose — the fear and discipline of citizens and citizens, which will endanger the freedom of criticism and public words and thus the foundations of democracy. For example, one of the consequences will be that people will be afraid of public statements and will resort to self-censorship, while criticism of power will be only a matter of privacy. What you are proposing is nothing more than a verbal delinquency and a rise of political class over ordinary citizens. In other words, if comparing with pigs and lazy persons is obviously a purely worthy level of communication of the Minister, it is necessary to provide punishment for anyone who might respond in a similar manner and thereby affect his feelings. We are firmly opposed to this in the Levica, of course, and we are proposing, with an amendment to the proposed amendment to the Penal Code, the deletion of this harmful and extremely repressive provision. If our amendment is not adopted, we will vote against the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposed amendment of the Penal Code brings changes to the substantively very different areas. The amendments relate mainly to the harmonisation of the Penal Code with the directives of the European Union, the Council of Europe Convention and other international conventions. The preparation also took into account the proposals made by the competent authorities, in particular in the case-law of the State and the case-law, by which the changes were also largely harmonised. In view of the decision of the Joint Meeting of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of 19 2. 2021 The proposed addition of the third paragraph of Article 135 of the KZ is that suspects of criminal offences will be prosecuted against the highest representatives of the country and close to them on an official basis and not only on a proposal, which, given their particular public exposure and the growing intolerance and extremeness in society in Novi Slovenije, is also supported. Let me briefly describe some of the proposed solutions in the proposal for a criminal code that we consider meaningful in the NSI Group. It is proposed that the deadline for the completion of the probationary period should be suspended for the duration of personal bankruptcy. It is often the case that the probationary period and the one-year period following its expiry, while the personal bankruptcy proceedings against the convict are still pending. The Court will also be able to determine, in the context of the guidelines for the conditional judgment with protective supervision, the obligation to include in one or more of the social security services of the Centre for Social Work. The consequences of failure to comply with the guidelines in the context of the conditional judgment with protective supervision shall also be determined by violating the personal plan set out by the later Law on Testing. It is also proposed that, during the time of the conviction, the court may extend the protective supervision beyond the limits of a certain probationary period, in order to comply with the instructions, to contact the adviser and to extend the duration of other infringements of the personal plan. Access to deleted sentences for offences against sexual inviolability for working with children and minors will no longer be subject to regulation in the field legislation. The acquisition of data from that record will therefore be possible for employers in the fields of teaching, training, protection or care of minors under the Penal Code itself. In Novi Slovenija, it seems important that in the proposal of the Penal Code, the length of the time limit for a new trial after the annulment of the judgment in a case with an exceptional remedy or with a constitutional appeal is extended to five years after the annulment of the legal judgment. So far, it's been two years. In the event of bankruptcy by fraud or non-disclosure, the offence will already be determined by the prohibited consequence of the deprivation of creditors. There's also a change of plans for the unsub. Now there's a direct plot, and there's a new one where there'll be enough possible conspiracies. When crossing the border or territory of a State is prohibited, it shall be determined in the case of the illegal carriage, concealment or dispatch of aliens to the territory of a country in the worst form of that offence that it is sufficient already for the offender to expose any person to life or health risks. So far, it has had to go to cause danger to human life or health. In the case of smuggling, drivers usually drive non-proprietary vehicles, so it is now also regulated to take a vehicle which is not the owner's own if it is processed for the purpose of smuggling or if the owner knew or could have known that the vehicle would be used for that purpose. The proposal for amendments to the Penal Code brings many meaningful improvements in various areas. It is more clearly defined and somewhat sharpens the criminal regime in the areas of combating the financing of terrorism, economic crime, the protection of information systems, conditional convictions, trials and illegal migration. The Criminal Code also includes an amendment to the Article which arose on the proposal of the Committees of the National Assembly. Therefore, the Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Vice President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, which has already undergone quite a few amendments in a relatively short period of time. Thus, in 2020, we changed the regulation of the lengthening of prosecutions in relation to a particular group of crimes, regulated the range of prescribed penalties for certain forms of criminal offence prohibited from crossing the border or territory of the country, and in 2021 transformed the model of forced rape into a model of affirmative consent. Since the entry into force of KZ-1E, the Republic of Slovenia has signed certain conventions of the Council of Europe, in which amendments and additions to substantive criminal legislation are also needed. New Directives of the European Union have also been adopted and, in relation to some, the European Commission has identified minor transposition deficiencies in the review of implementation. This is the case with the amendment of the law before us today, in particular to comply with certain conventions of the Council of Europe and the Organization of the United Nations. Some are limited to addressing minor transposition deficiencies and others to newer conventions already signed by the Republic of Slovenia. The bill we are considering today brings about significant changes in existing crimes, as well as some new crimes in the field of the suppression of terrorism, trafficking in human organs or counterfeit medicines. The proposal also builds on the rules on prohibited practices in sport and on the destruction of the world cultural heritage and lays down a new offence of enforced disappearance. The amendments also concern the transposition of certain directives in the European Union, where some are also addressing minor shortcomings. The other changes are based on proposals from the practice of competent authorities. In all this, however, we cannot go beyond the proposed changes to the crimes of coercion and threat, which has also led to a gruesome debate in the consideration of the amendment of the law on the labour force. The Committee of the National Court of Justice and the Committee of the National Assembly on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at a joint meeting on 19. 2. 2021 At the time of its consideration of the agenda item The degree of hostility, exclusion and attacks against individuals and organisations on the basis of their values, beliefs or global view has adopted several conclusions. By a fifth decision, the Committees proposed to the Ministry of Justice to supplement the existing criminal offence in such a way as to ensure that death threats against the highest representatives of the State or their loved ones are prosecuted on an official basis without a proposal from the injured party. The proposal for a law proposing to supplement Article 135, paragraph 3, of the Penal Code as regards the manner of prosecution of a criminal offence shall be followed exclusively by that decision of the two Committees and the addition of Article 132 shall, within the meaning of that decision and shall be extended to all officials for the purpose of intimidation. These changes, in our view, are an appropriate response to the current social situation. There is, however, a need to establish a border and as a society to condemn such discards regardless of who they are directed against. And if the borders between the threat and the criticism are not capable of putting up all the parliamentary groups, then we will put it in coalition. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper is next, will present the position of the SAB Group's Ambassador. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Given the modus operandi of the current government, we are particularly attentive to Members and Members of the opposition under every law proposed by either the Government or the ruling coalition itself. Although we are already practiced by so - called planters, this does not mean that we are landing on them. In the SAB, however, we pay particular attention to the changes in legislation that fall within the so-called area of the country's repressive role. This legislation clearly includes the Penal Code. What are the trends of this government in the area I mentioned, the country's representative role, as it was very clear yesterday that more than 100 police directors and police station commanders have been suspended. The Penal Code, the code governing this area, should therefore also be amended with a shaking hand, where the country has a special role to play. Especially since the Government has written in this specific Penal Code or in its amendment that a working group of legal experts has been involved in the development of these solutions. That is not the case, legal experts have warned themselves, who have been amazed to find their names in a government document. More than obviously, the government wanted to create the impression that the proposal was consistent with the expertise and, as a result, so much more legitimate, which is obviously far from the truth. Most of the dust in this change was raised by the proposed addition to the crime of threat. The Penal Code now stipulates that the crime of threat is prosecuted at the request of the injured person and not on official duty. In accordance with the proposed amendment, however, a crime of threat against any of the country's highest representatives or its neighbours would be prosecuted on an official basis. The fact is that this criminal offence is an individual offence for which a relatively low penalty is prescribed and therefore, according to the Law and Law Service, it is more appropriate to prosecute him on a proposal from the injured party. However, it is still a form of persecution — and we must not forget that — for which the prosecutor is responsible. Let me also recall that the Government has tried to implement a similar solution already in the context of the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, for the rude conduct of the highest representatives of the authorities and their relatives, they wanted to legislate higher penalties. But they also failed because of the very sharp reactions of the profession, as well as the public and consequently the opposition. The law also proposes a new qualified form of crime of coercion. We have also heard that it would be more appropriate to place such a provision in the chapter on crimes against public order and peace. At the same time, such a provision will lead to difficulties in practice, since it is essentially similar to a crime to prevent an official act or to avenge an official, which is contrary to the principle of legal certainty. Finally, the SAB is concerned that both proposed solutions were included in the proposal without discussion with the professional public. We are opposed to such a way of amending criminal legislation as we say, but the majority of the representatives of the judiciary who have pointed out that the solutions proposed are inadequate. In the field of criminal law, because of the nature of interference with personal rights, it is particularly important that this legislation changes thoughtfully, and today we have changes that come from and respond to the current social situation and do not have the basis for analysis and expert consultation. Finally, let me be very clear that in the SAB we reject all forms of hatred, hate speech and any threats. We do not dispute the fact that the country's top representatives are more often the target of hate speech and threats, but we are, in particular, in this sensitive area advocates of quality legislation in which all stakeholders are involved in a timely manner. We believe that it is only in this way that we can adopt legislation in the National Assembly and contribute to the better functioning of society. That is why we do not agree to this government's modus operandi, which is trying to do so without public debate and practically include some set-up in every proposal for a law. Above all, we are in the SAB, as has been said, in the light of recent events, very distrustful and concerned about what the real and true intentions of the coalition are, so we will oppose the change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will be next in line to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Specially, extremely important legal area, which regulates and limits violence and protects existing and dominant social relations, the values of an individual and an institution, is criminal law, substantive and procedural criminal law. The entire legal rules and legal principles defining criminal offences, criminal liability and criminal sanctions are covered by the Penal Code. In view of the fact that this is an area of legal regulation which in some cases allows or allows for the deepest interference with fundamental human rights and freedoms, the worst intervention, of course, constitutes the deprivation of liberty for a person suspected or later accused of a certain crime, it is always necessary to approach its changes in a manner that is weighted, comprehensive and professionally reasoned, with a shaking hand. This time, the proposed amendments to the Penal Code touch on several sets of criminal proceedings and are completely acceptable to the Desus Group without any major concern, and most of them relate to the harmonisation of our legislation with European directives, Council of Europe conventions and other international conventions. According to our assessment, changes and additions resulting from the experience of the competent authorities in practice are certainly more than welcome, as they represent the elimination of those inconsistencies and shortcomings that have now been identified as such in practice during implementation. All of these proposals are generally acceptable regardless of the political definition of all of us in this Chamber, which we cannot claim for a proposal which was subsequently included in the text of the amendments, which relates to the determination of prosecution under official responsibility in relation to the crime of threat against the State's high representatives or their neighbours. This proposal is the most politicised and we also expect a broad debate today. In the Desus Group, we have not yet defined this proposal, since we do not have membership in the Justice Committee, but we have identified ourselves as a similar proposal in the context of the amendment of the Law on Public Order and Peace, where we have expressed our support for the provision that defined the sanctioning of public debate and shouting and the undignified conduct towards an individual or group, not only against officials. By then, we had warned that the attacks, attacks, including physical attacks, and threats against citizens of various political beliefs and their neighbors, violent protests, violent intrusions into buildings and similarly unacceptable and unacceptable. I would like to point out that we strongly condemn such conduct in the Desus Group. Unfortunately, such acts of individuals have become part of our daily lives, and we fear that the establishment of a social state of tolerance among people, respect for the fellow human being, as before the epidemic, will be extremely difficult, perhaps even impossible to achieve again. Threats are more intense from day to day, targeting individuals and their neighbors, against their health, their whole lives. We are talking about a crime of security when the threat is serious and objectively possible, but it does not matter whether the perpetrator intended to carry out the threat. It is important that the threats were made in such a way that they were serious and that the person against whom they were targeted was considered serious and were objectively capable of achieving the threat. The current Penal Code for the offence of intimidation and harassment prescribes the prosecution of a private action or motion. The proposed novelty, however, does not change the qualification of this crime, but rather that the perpetrator of this crime, committed against the highest representatives of the State and their neighbors, is prosecuted for official duty. In the Desus Group we also support such a proposal. The level of hostility of the speech from the mandate to the mandate is transferred to our streets, to our homes, that is a fact. We can also conclude that the escalation of threats will also be reflected as something common among our citizens to the highest representatives of the country. Nobody wants to take an envelope with a bullet, painted targets on the faces of their loved ones. Perhaps this was the provision in the Penal Code that would help to calm this situation. We don't know, it'll only show time, but something has to be done. This is also why Members of the Desus Group will support the proposed news of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Slug will be the last to present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u50	In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are aware that the amendment of the Penal Code, which we are considering at this meeting, represents a kind of mosaic of changes to the substantively very different areas of regulation. The amendments are also intended to come from the proposals of the competent authorities, and in particular relate to cases from the State Prosecutor's Office and the case-law. In the Group of Members, we have decided not to support the novel. In our decision, we used the instrument of judgment used by the judiciary, namely, the doctrine of the fruit of the poisoned tree. It is characterised by a radical way of eliminating so-called toxic fruits or evidence, even though all the other evidence obtained is legal. It does not allow any weighting between whether the exclusion is meaningful and whether the exclusion will have an impact on the prosecution itself. This novel, which contains a series of solutions that could otherwise be supported, poisoned or poisoned by fruit poisoning at least twice. For the first time, he stated in his explanation that experts were also involved in the design of solutions. These were, in fact, appointed to the working groups to prepare changes, but they did not cooperate in coordinating the disputed solutions nor were they familiar with them. The Minister wanted to inform the National Assembly and create an impression of broad professional coordination, thus giving the novel greater legitimacy, but it failed. These experts have publicly denied cooperation even at the very meeting of the parent’s working body. Secondly, when he added new articles that were disputed and not presented to the working group and were not professionally coordinated with it, he added new articles to the professional public. We were also able to see about this on the parent’s working body. The Minister re-appliced the Government's repeated action strategy by including so-called incentives in the text just before the adoption of the Government and the transmission of the bill to the National Assembly. The wise men have repeatedly recommended that the constitution be changed with a shaking hand. Criminal legislation is also considered to be changing with a shaking hand, especially in doses that can be placed on a teaspoon. This time we changed it with a spoon and with the hands of SDS, or Janez Janša and Ales Hojs. Both have repeatedly criticised the decisions and actions of the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office, which, for example, at the time of the protests assessed that the protest slogans “Death of Janshism” were not a crime, and so on. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we condemn recent threats when some representatives of the Government and the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of Coalition types or those who support the coalition received postal shipments of threats and charges. Threats of death in a plural and democratic society, in our view, do not have a city. The applicable Penal Code already contains, for such cases, the possibility of prosecution on a proposal which is essentially a subset of prosecution by official duty and is governed by a state prosecutor. The penalty for a threat is a personal offense, protecting individual security from a specific type of threat. It is therefore more appropriate to prosecute the injured person on a proposal or on the basis of his express will and consent. As we are aware, some of the recipients have already made such a proposal. This time, mail recipients are not the first but probably not the last politician to threaten them. We may still recall similar threats from past mandates when, for example, a postal messenger received a dead rat in addition to threats. Or the one who, as a result of her work in the commission of inquiry investigating the role of extremist groups in the 2012 protests, had a meeting in the parking lot with the yellow vests that Mr. Hojs had as pearls – in those days they were considered neo-Nazis. Or those MPs who investigated the SDS free of charge and repeatedly experienced anonymous calls describing to her the activities of her family members and the accidents that might happen to them. What is a threat to someone is a matter of individual evaluation. In the end, each individual must assess how threatened he feels and whether he will make a proposal for prosecution. These MPs reported threats, not persecution. However, to members of the government coalition who point out the rise in hostility and thus the possibility of escalating violent behaviour, I answer: whoever sows the wind will reap a storm.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 15 November. Since the amendments of the Left, LMŠ, unrelated Members, SAB and SD to Articles 17 and 43 are substantively linked, we will discuss all amendments to these articles together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 17 and 43, as well as the amendments of the members of the Left, the LMŠ, the unrelated Members, the SAB and the SD, and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the unrelated Members. Since it's a matter of debate, I'm opening a list of applications. Please sign in. We have six interviewees reported. The first one gets the word, Mrs. Natasa Sukič, for her mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. I have already made very clear in the introductory position what the problem of this time is in the Penal Code. We know how excruciating it was when we talked about the Law on Public Order and Peace. We know that this plant was first there, or this intention of this government was there, and then there was a lot of confusion when they wanted this verbal delict to be legalized for all citizens, even though it was first in the political class, as it is now. What we have now witnessed is a shameful, shameful abuse of the most important law in this country. This is called verbal delinquency, and a kind punishment, according to a kind opinion of political opponents, who are, say, critics of rulings. It's nothing else. Because I don't know what logic it takes to judge someone who's supposed to be at risk. Do Members and Members and other officials suddenly not have our own subjective judgment to judge whether we feel threatened or not? And it's enough to have an oral application, a declaration that the procedure is being completed. No, no, no. This is essentially called the intimidation of citizens and citizens through the Penal Code with the aim of disciplining them, in order to make people afraid, in order to stop hoping to express sharp criticism, as sharp criticism can, according to the opinion of the official body, be said to be a matter of policy, qualified as a threat and procedure. In view of what is happening in the police, which is now completely politically underprivileged, in view of what is happening in the police, where everything that has been built is literally collapsing, and the SDS party, in particular the SDS party of the loyal staff, will continue to do so. It's called complete fear, my people. It's called the end of democracy, if you want, the end of free speech. Me, me, me, me, me! These are the foundations of democracy. Now they make fun of me — who? Of course it's the good-looking SDS. Why? Let them tell me why Yugoslavia was once qualified as a non-democratic state. There were only two reasons for that. One was that the system was unilateral, and the other that a legal verbal delict was respected and respected. Verbal delinquency, an approximation or some equivalent to that is now actually introduced by you. Well, that's a serious shame. The Ministry of Justice, which should be a defender of the rule of law and with the constitution of a certain democracy, is smooth about doing what has failed in the Law on Public Order and Peace. And so now we have a verbal delicacy ahead of us, with which members of Desus suddenly no longer have a problem. Why? Why? Everything is connected, respected and respected, including the Construction Law, which we discussed a little earlier, and so on. Shame! You can literally see from space what's going on here. It's a serious shame. Members and Members, including you from the SDS and others, you, like all of us, are responsible for what's going on here. And it's not a small matter of what you're doing. These are terrible precedents. It's a hell of a precedent. Not just verbal delinquency. With this, you, respected and respected, gently raise the political class above all others, as if you were something or as if now you wanted to force us, as if we were something extra. Really? Unbelievable. That you're really not ashamed of yourself and that you're not worried about what's going on with democracy in this country. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, it's an amendment, Article 17, that's what I'm talking about, Your Honor. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I am talking about the introduction of a verbal delinquency and the rise of a political class over ordinary citizens if this happens, this Article 17, as you suggest. It does not matter that the entire profession unitedly reminds you that this is unsustainable, that this is constitutionally controversial. Well, it's going to go to a constitutional conclusion that we understand each other. But this obviously does not concern you that literally every law of the Roma is in constitutional judgment, because you are so unconscionable and presumptuous to allow yourself such things. You don't even care what the European Court of Human Rights says. You guys are really buzzing, but you're really whistling at everything. What is the problem with law enforcement? Stop fooling around! Now you're waving those bullets that are now alpha and the omen that you're now legitimizing. We know what this is about. The limit between threat and criticism may be quickly erased, and it is no longer judged by those who are supposed to be the target of an alleged threat, but it is judged by someone else instead of her or him, that the body is being persecuted. And the law enforcement body can either work according to the policy or not work according to the policy direction. This moment, in view of what is happening in the police force, I highly doubt that it is not working according to the direction of politics. What do you want now? Have any critics of authority been pushed into privacy to criticize the whispering there and not hope to express what he thinks? So where are we?Oh, my God! What do you think and imagine — that you will intimidate people, put them in jail? I don't want to use any sharper words to do that. Where it was, we know. What kind of regimes did this happen, we know. What you are introducing is just a regime, an autocratic regime, awe, the survival of citizens and citizens. This Article 17 should all those who still have a hint of reason and consciousness simply wipe out, it is said to confirm our amendment. Everything else, my dears – I don't know how you're going to look in the mirror, if not tomorrow if not tomorrow, and in a few years, when you're finally conscious of what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Meira Hot, get ready, Mr. Jura Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Have a nice hello again! As the colleague has already pointed out, the basic objective pursued by the Government by this proposal for a criminal code is to prosecute the perpetrators of the crime against the state's highest representatives. The introduction of this Article, i.e. the provision that the crime of a threat directed against the highest representatives of that State is pursued by official duty, makes it very clear that an act from the previous system is again punishable. This government must understand that criticism of work is the basis for freedom of expression. So, the criticism of the work of public authority is the basis of freedom of expression, and I think that the screams of freedom of expression of year and years came from one side. It is a property that is the highest legally protected and protected, as you are in the coalition as when you are in the opposition. Of course, now that you are in the coalition, you obviously cannot get used to being the subject of criticism of your way of work, yet this right of the people to express criticism of the political class of course exists. That such a change is extremely legal, you have been told on many sides. On the part of the Attorney General's Office, the Chamber of Attorneys, the Legal and Legal Service has very well justified why the current regulation is legitimate and correct, why it is now some sub-qualified form of prosecution under official responsibility, therefore why it is absolutely necessary to cooperate with the injured party. What's not clear to me is why you think that if now it's an official duty to change in any way in reality. It will still be a threat in the context of the fact that it must contain a serious threat. Thus, there will still be certain laxations that cannot be prosecuted because they do not in themselves constitute a serious threat to the body and the life of an individual. In this way you are absolutely legislating some inequality, and this will be absolutely constitutionally controversial. It is not clear to me why, in fact, the highest representatives of power, who are in fact already otherwise protected as the average people, can be more afraid of threats. I don't understand. You've got guards, but you're protected by yourself. Unless there is any legitimate criticism for you, then yes, and then almost two thirds of Slovenia threatens you. And then, I don't know, then the lawsuits in court and the prosecution will be extraordinary. In 2012, when the crime of endangering security was changing to a crime of threat, one of the reasons for a more detailed justification and a different form of criminal offence was precisely an exceptional case in the courts and in the prosecutions, which later ended because of the withdrawals. Of course, since it is a strictly personal offense, the personal security of an individual is safeguarded. It is not clear to me why an individual would not participate in the procedure in this context. What legislation currently requires is only and only that an individual submits a proposal and participates in the process. Is this so difficult or is it a different goal? However, the objective is already evident from the explanation — that is, because it is about intensifying some threats, something needs to be done. First of all, everyone told you that this is not how the Penal Code changes. That's the first thing. I am sorry again, Mr Secretary of State, to say this to you and not to the Minister. I really miss him, I don't know where this gentleman is at all and whether he really is "missing and action". Now I'm wondering if he'll even come to the interpolation on Monday. I don't understand anymore. Every time I tell you this again, and I'm really sorry that you're just implementing some kind of policy of someone who's not even here. In your introductory remarks, you said that this proposal was essentially the result of a well-known meeting of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Home Affairs and that it was some kind of request. I don't know how many initiatives, questions, for example, the opposition's demands have been given to the government. For example, I think that the petition commission recently adopted some conclusions on the neo-Nazi society, but I have not seen the government react as favourably as you have on this committee. Despite the fact that the debate at the time was rather gruesome, and that these conclusions were not adopted unanimously. They were accepted by the majority because the coalition here overruns the opposition regardless of the law. Therefore, I do not think it is legitimate to amend the Penal Code, to come up with such a proposal on the basis of one political position of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Home Affairs. You, the secretary of state at the Ministry of Justice, are a defender of law. When a political body makes such a proposal to you, it is your absolute task to convene a meeting with all stakeholders, discuss with expertise and then either refuse or accept a proposal. But not to react impromptuly, even to write in explanation that because of intensifying threats to the highest representatives of the authorities, we do not know how many of these threats, how legitimate, how serious the truths are, exactly that, thank you, colleague Baković. [[…]] Since the most important importance of the criminal offence is the seriousness of the said offence. If he doesn't, he's covering himself with a misdemeanor, because that's not it anymore. That's why I don't understand what you've done. I mean, yes, I understand, because you explained – based on the conclusions of one political committee and based on alleged intensification, even though we do not know whether this is the case or not. Because it is such a personality act that it is a question of how much the truth is actually in this. Unless you have an empirical study or an analysis. If you have, I'd like you to present this to us. But if you went to change in the way that someone told you to do something, and you did it very quickly, it is absolutely unacceptable for some legal state. At the very least, this is the result of some current political situation in which the criticism of power, public expression, freedom of expression in connection with freedom of association and peaceful protests is fully and completely suppressed, which is still the most painful point in this coalition. Thus, of course, the Penal Code does not change this fundamental system law. It doesn't change that way. It is even less altered by writing in the introductory provisions that two professors participated, and then, of course, they will inform us in writing on the committee that they did not participate absolutely in this proposal of the Penal Code, and they will tell you that they only participated in the group on changes in crimes against sexual inviolability. And you've written them down pretty well to participate in these changes. In doing so, you were so presumptuous that you explained how they were members and, at the same time, denied their letter. I am speaking to the committee, you said on the committee that they were members of this group, even though they made it clear that they were only about the changes to the crime against sexual inviolability, and also the representative of the Bar Association pointed out this to you on the Committee on Justice. Why am I saying this? Because I find it not only extremely unprofessional, but also very inappropriate for the Ministry of Justice to prepare amendments to the Penal Code and identify persons who did not participate in the law at all as external experts. That's not appropriate. Furthermore, it is not appropriate to prepare such changes without listening to the profession, without the participation of the profession. I don't know how many calls you've received from, say, the Attorney General's Chamber, the Attorney General's Office, that because you haven't prepared these changes with expertise, they're asking that this law go back to being re-examined. I am also repeating here their appeal because I think that the changes you have made are absolutely inappropriate, they are too fast and there have been too many changes to the Penal Code, and in this way many anomalies, inconsistencies, non-systematicity have been introduced into our system. Maybe one more time for closure. The opposition has tabled here an amendment proposing the deletion of changes to prosecute the crime of threat under official duty. We believe that this is the only right thing to do to keep it the way it is. It is a personality of a delict, a delict that is specifically linked to the personality of an individual, that is to say, there is a subjective gift here, although I hear that some will rely on a single Supreme Court judgment, which, despite saying that there is no need for subjectivity in the context of a personal sense of danger, still does not mean that this threat must be serious. At the same time, I would ask you, the Secretary of State, to tell me exactly what was the change between 2015 and 2021 in the context of the intensification of threats in the context of the content of these threats, and in the context of the seriousness of the threats directed against the highest representatives of the state authorities, once again, the highest representatives of the state authorities have already been protected as citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Jure Ferrjan, prepare for mag. Andrej Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u56	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament and all those who accompany us! Madam Vice-President, in the introduction, I would like to ask you if you would allow me to withdraw in my debate on this Article what I would like to say at 45th so that I can somehow bring it all together. If you'll excuse me. Thank you very much. We have an important change ahead of us. How important this change has also proved to be in today's debate and introductory positions. It saddens me that today we are getting reconfirmed that politics is not capable or that it does not want to condemn the threat of violence in a uniform way and give a clear signal that this is wrong. Today we are again listening to some confusion about the fact that this is just a criticism of politics, and we must have thick skin. Yes, we must have thick skin and it is right for someone to tell us if we are doing something wrong or if he has a different opinion. It is certainly a democracy, it is a democratic society where we need to talk, to talk and to achieve the best solutions through dialogue. But, respectable and respected, I will now say in particular, because on specific occasions it is, I think, the easiest thing to understand. I have recently commented on or expressed my opinion on the protestors against the PCT condition and what it actually means and against whom they protest. The PCT allows an open company and that the economy and the company as far as they operate at the time of the epidemic. And what was the criticism, as you say, of my work? And I might find it a little awkward to read this stuff because I'm not used to such a vocabulary, but I'm going to quote. That's what it said. I quote: "Jour Ferjan, you too will be on your turn." End of quote. I quote: “You're sick, you're sick, you're sick.” End of quote. I quote: "I hope this protest virus reaches you as soon as possible, you piece of shit." End of quote. I quote: “A handful, a handful will come for you soon.” End of quote. I quote, "Who the fuck are you?" End of quote. Funny, isn't it, in SD? It's very funny, isn't it? Very. “Smell.” End of quote. "You should be ashamed of yourself, you bastard. Regular ass and shit from a man that you're not ashamed of, motherfuckers fucked up." End of quote. Is that a critique?Oh, my God! It's a constructive criticism, is that a criticism of our work? Then, apparently, someone thought it was a bad idea to write: “Covid I sing for breakfast.” End of quote. Respected and respected, if it is in SD, LMŠ and KUL parties, it is a constructive criticism, okay, that is your opinion. That's not constructive criticism for me. Like me, there's no constructive criticism when someone threatens to kill you when you leave your job and they yell, "We'll come after you, next you're next!" Respected and respected, this is not constructive criticism, this is a threat and this is a crime and we are already defining it in the Penal Code. For intermezzo. We have the existing 353rd Article of the Penal Code, which lays down a minimum of 15 years of imprisonment for the highest representatives of the State and their neighbours. This is existing legislation that is in force. And what do we today do with article 17 of the proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code? It's just that things are gonna go on official business. Today we listen to the Left to create first- and second-class citizens. What a duplicity! Not long ago, we had the Law on Public Order and Peace, which you destroyed right in Levica. At that time, this area would be regulated by protecting every citizen and every citizen who threatens it, and you were against it. You were against it! However, it is understandable from this point of view that you are so scrupulously defending this discourse, because you in Levica have started such a discourse in this National Assembly. You used to, Mrs. Sukich, tell me to laugh at you. I'm not making fun of you. I admit that years ago, a statement, especially when I listen to you about your economic philosophies, was kind of funny, but good, and what we're listening to these last days, and that's not funny, and that's scary. Such radical rhetoric, as much hatred as in your words, is frightening and is certainly not funny. This is reflected also on the street, which is also reflected in social discourse and this is what causes division in Slovenia. Instead of allowing politics to show common ground in order to adopt legislation that protects all of us in order to carry out our work, our mission – no, it is necessary to protect those who undermine this government. And what does that prove? My statement, which confirms this: on 9 November, you tabled an amendment to Article 17 in the KUL parties to delete it, on the same day you tabled the withdrawal of this amendment, so that this article is not deleted, and a few days later you tabled an amendment to Article 45 – I will not comment later, thank you for allowing me to say all the things here – that the validity of this law will expire for three months. Then you obviously did a little bit of calculating, you withdrew this amendment to Article 45, and you tabled a new amendment to apply this law in four months, according to the election. But now it is necessary to protect the protestors, and it is necessary to protect all those who have five minutes to spit and threaten this government to break. Is that your purpose? Is that your purpose?Oh, my God! Let's stop playing tricks and tell them that's your purpose. That's exactly what you're saying. You're defending the protestors and they're threatening, but they didn't mean it. What do you know what they think? What do you know when someone tells you they're coming home looking for you? What does he think? You know what he thinks? I don't know. And I'm not afraid, but that's not the way. It's not a thing we'd want in society. I don't want that kind of company. I don't want such a future for myself, let alone for my children, but if God gives grandchildren. Let's get it in our hands! First let's stop blinding ourselves, then let's stop fooling around, then let's get our hands on each other. We're here in the National Assembly. The temple of democracy is a place where different opinions, different views, and the result of the vote is the will of the people who have shown us in the elections. Respected and respected, indeed, if what I previously wrote to you in the comments, in the quotations I received myself – and this was just this strawberry choice, I could say, then I stopped reading because it makes no sense – if in KUL you imagine that this is a democracy, if you want such a democracy, I don't know. In any case, we probably need to imagine ourselves as an individual, as an individual, as a society. But if this is the democracy we want in Slovenia, then we really screwed up. Then we really screwed up. Please, not now with these flossules, yes, the government is restricting freedoms, the government is doing this and that. We have an epidemic in Slovenia, we have it in the European Union, we have it all over the world. Take a look around the neighbouring countries, but you can see that the measures are even more stringent than they are in Slovenia. I don't want to go too far. Nameing this law with fear, with the end of democracy – please, no. If it is someone who idolizes a system where there was no democracy where there was no freedom of speech, it is not the Slovenian Democratic Party, but you are on that side. Now you're shaking your head, but those are your words. Fear, the end of democracy – those are your words. That was the system, we said no thanks over three decades ago. We said no thanks to communism, we said no thanks to socialism. Nothing was allowed in society at the time. The one who said we know what happened to him, and we don't want that. One more time, just so we're clear. One is constructive criticism, which is excellent, which is likely to bring about improvements in many cases, some better solutions, some consensus, on the other hand, threats. Threats of death, impatience, hostility. Once again, let's stop this, call people to patience, to dialogue and to respect each other and to overcome this crisis together. Personally, I will not support these amendments, but I regret that in the opposition KUL are looking for elements in every way to protect those who have five minutes of time and everyone else to overthrow the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. In this place, I will be in the spirit of further constructive debate, as it has been so far, and given that we had some complications yesterday when the leadership changed, given that, Mr Ferrjan, I have allowed you a little wider debate without any difficulty, just like everyone else, and that in three minutes I am leaving the seat of leadership, I have asked my colleagues from SDS to draw attention to this constructiveness to the future leader when Mr Tanko arrives. Since yesterday they weren't the same vats for all the discussers when I left. Perhaps Mr Ferrjan, if you would kindly remind him that the debate will go in a narrower direction than we have now started, because it is right that all have the right to debate more broadly if you have had this right so far. Now we have two replicas. Procedurally, Mr. Ferrian.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would just like to say that because this relates to the holding of the meeting, that I personally will not intervene in the opinion of the President, as well as in yours or in yours or in the assessment of either the remaining Vice-Presidents or the President. Just so that there won't be any matter left in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u59	I do not appeal to you to judge the manner of management, but if you were accompanying the meeting yesterday – that is why I have come to my attention – given that Mr Doblekar gradually wanted to revive the meeting when members of the opposition spoke. However, when the president of the Infrastructure Committee spoke and specifically asked me to allow a little wider discussion, I allowed him to do so, of course. It's just about correctness. I won't be able to have any more influence in two minutes either, and it was an appeal to your correctness that you might also remind your colleague, through procedural proposals, who will lead the session behind me. Replica, Mrs. Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u60	Now here's the deal. Dear fellow, I hope you will hear me at least once about the change because you're already listening, but you hear me not. She gave constructive criticism, and it would be constructive for you to listen to it. More than that, to actually include her in the preparation of this without excluding her and lying about how she was involved. That's the first one. Second. It would be constructive for your top representatives to stop insulting tweeting and insulting citizens, say from the Prime Minister down. Like Hoys, who hurts people with pigs that hurt people with sloths. Is it constructive, or is it what upsets the public, divides the public and causes unrest? Is Left the one who tells you it's a fearsome thing, and you're already in the air, because that's obviously a little bit of a threat to you. And that's exactly what we're talking about, what you're making in here right now. You deny us political representatives' judgement to judge for ourselves when we feel threatened and report it. Do you think we're completely incompetent? Does this need to be done instead of us by an authority that can judge, by a kind of will, and then says that "Death of Janchism" is a threat, and puts a man in prison for 15 years?Oh, my God! Where do we live? We know janchism is a political ideology, not a man. We've told you this a million times. And you dare say we have an enemy discourse. You who come from Nova24 as a former journalist, a medium at the bottom of journalism, and which is a generator of hostile debate in this country. Isn't that a problem? And that doesn't separate people? But doesn't that set you on fire or make you hostile or something? In short, one more time. It would be constructive to listen to a professional who said in a uniform way that it was insufferable for you to make such a precedent article in the Code of Penalties. An article that implies the enforcement of a verbal offense, the intimidation of people through it and the raising of the political class above others. Pika. This national assembly does not reflect the will of the people, but reflects the betrayal of the people. We all know what happened, it's not a real picture of what people expected when they cast their votes. So also here you lie and allow yourself things that have simply walked across every boundary of decency, cultural dialogue and at the end of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate on the amendment, I suggest that you all read first the provisions of the replica and the provisions of the procedural proposal, so that there are no unnecessary complications. We are so grown and so grown up, you probably know what the debate on the amendments is, and you also know what the general debate is. This has been done, the views have been presented and we are now dealing with the details to be regulated by this law if they are to be adopted, otherwise the solutions remain as they are. You want a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]] I hope there will be a procedural proposal. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u62	President, thank you so much for your word. I gradually raised my hand before you changed or now took over the leadership of the National Assembly, but I was not seen and then was a replica given earlier, so you will understand. My procedural proposal is called for, because this is a management area and this is linked to the procedure. Previously, we were warned that we should warn others how to lead. However, I think it is important – and this is my procedural proposal – that all those who hold meetings agree on what is going on between them. If things cannot be resolved or otherwise, if there are such differences, then let the College handle them and then move on. It is not that Members are urged to call on the presidents to act. This is a procedural proposal because it is not in our work that we are now calling on each other to agree. That's it. My call is that it's not about this system.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much, colleague. I don't need to be warned about how I'm going to run this session. This will be as it is written by the book. It is also right that others who hold meetings of the National Assembly and of the working bodies adhere to what is stated in the Rules of Procedure. If that doesn't work for them, let them make changes and we'll work another way. It's a replica of a colleague of mags. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll be very short. My colleague obviously didn't understand my debate very well because I was talking about the crime of threat in the debate, and all he was describing was either hate speech or a crime of regret, and it was certainly not a crime of threat here. From here, my smile is also, because apparently, crimes are involved, at least from the content you've given us. In fact, the regret is completely different from the threat. But the fact is, she could have given us a lot of information on what we were all getting. Even after each discussion, we receive a variety of messages, including offensive ones. You can also – you probably imagine what we get as women from different backgrounds. Somewhere this discourse started, somewhere years ago. Someone has been more aggressive in their debates and we are where we are today. But all of this does not excuse the sudden changes to the Penal Code based on someone’s opinion that threats are intensifying. That's what you need the content to do, that's what you need the basis for, that's what you need analysis for. Above all, you do not need to change in the context of prosecution by official duty, because basically this persecution, as it is now designed, by official duty, only needs the consent of the injured party. And the victim who feels threatened, I don't know why he wouldn't be involved in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u66	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Secretary of State with the team and citizens and citizens who accompany us! First of all, he would have ended up where his esteemed colleague Jura Ferjan, that he too, with a metaphor, but he was threatened to understand it as a serious threat, “we will also come for you”. But it is clear to everyone what this means in this context. And now to learn – and immediately thereafter, President, to the amendments – that this spiral of violence in society has not received high installations is, in fact, only in the domain of diversion, hiding its head in a novice hole. I think that this amendment of the law, the Penal Code, leaves a good signal for all those people who go to such a level. Dear colleagues, I am moving on to the substantive part of the debate. You were talking about some Supreme Court judgment. Your experts would probably be able to find this. It's the higher court's judgment. I will also tell you the date of the decision, 7 July 2020, with the code Kp 1029/2020, from last year. It was signed by three judges in the Senate – Igor Mokorel, Boris Hrvat and Katarina Turk Lukan. It is precisely so that the injured person does not need to participate in the procedure in the context of subjective perception of the threat. Surely, read this decision, and all your doubts will be disassociated. So, I think that this is really a total ignorance of knowledge of modern legal practice in this area on your part. The subjective judgment of the insult you refer to in the opposition is indeed wrong here. Now let me let you understand at all what we are talking about here – subjective perception of the threat is not necessary in the context of the deciding judge in the courts. In this crucial part, the judgment or decision states: “It is sufficient that the threat is objectively capable of creating intimidation or harassment, and it is not necessary for the injured person to actually feel intimidated or upset.” So is the decision of the Supreme Court. “Because,” continues, “if it were to be, it would be from the point of view of protected personal security already for an injured crime and no longer for a dangerous crime”. It is no longer necessary, therefore, to explain in the decision the Chamber of Senior Judges that the injured party feels threatened or upset, since the subjective effect of the threat on the injured person between the legal signs is not mentioned. That's last year's decision. “There is therefore no need for a description of the crime to contain a description of such consequences.” It is said that the higher judges have said that your doubts about the subjective assessment of the threat are actually black in white. They also point out in their concluding statement: “The higher court has taken the view that it is not necessary for the offender to feel threatened or intimidated, but sufficient that the threat is objectively capable of creating such intimidation or harassment.” So let your professional services order you to prepare this decision so that you too will have black in white, that this doubt is actually rejected by the Senate of the Supreme Court. As for the amendments themselves, which, of course, you would have longed to delete. With the amendment to Article 17, where we are talking about a change in the way in which perpetrators of a crime are prosecuted, of course you have also correctly detected, as it is not difficult to understand that the prosecution on a proposal is in some way a subset of prosecution by official duty, and we all agree. What does that mean in practice? It'll all be the same as before. It's all gonna be the same. The prosecutor will have to do all the activities, as he has now done, that is not changing. He will be the one who will be independent, independent and will decide whether or not to prosecute. What doesn't change? Incriminations of a criminal offence. It doesn't change, it stays exactly the same as it was until now. Once again, it bothers me, I already said at the meeting of my mother's working body, this mantra of yours: “it treats the same way”. If I leave you with your wrong grades about first-class and second-class citizens, you are in fact denied in the legal framework by the Penal Code itself, which we are amending in this part, I think my colleague Ferjan has already talked about this. Article 353 of the Penal Code referred to, namely, violence against the highest representatives of the State. None of you then objected or denied it. And, of course, to prevent the official act of a person under Article 299 of the Penal Code. All of this has already been defined in the Penal Code. This change in the way the perpetrators of the crime are prosecuted will, as it is said, remain the same. The Prosecutor will continue to judge in his own proceedings on his own. In fact, this mantra of yours is changing – it just isn't. As far as the expiry of the application is concerned, however, you are proposing. I'm guessing it's unserious of you not to say even dangerous work. Here, however, we are also implementing the directive by the European Union, you know that it was not just a set-up – you are only talking about so-called subsets – but here we have a transposition of European legislation into our legal order. Here, however, I am rightly afraid if this four-month suspension of application of the law had been confirmed. Of course that's not gonna happen, but I'm speaking hypothetically. Of course, it would be disputed that there are also crimes of terrorism prevention, corruption, money laundering, and, of course, Slovenia would then fall into this gray zone, where we are now denying, which should be so urgently enforced, because we have already received a warning from the European Union in particular on this matter. So this proposal of yours is really strange in this sense, perhaps even arouses the perception of a certain part of the public that now – because it is an upgrade to this legislation by preventing money laundering and financing terrorism – you in some way would like to leave it in this gray zone. Here ask yourself when you are putting this in, preparing amendments, what you are also doing indirectly to our legal order. And for closure. Amendment to Article 43. Here you have even proposed that we postpone the application of the law for one year in connection with the mere change in the way in which the perpetrators of the crime are prosecuted, so that everyone should become aware of this in practice and so on. I think that this denial in criminal substantive law is not at the very beginning of criminal law, even here you have kind of trampled it gravely and somehow introduced this proposed amendment of ambiguity into the legal system. So, of course, we cannot support these amendments in any way from any professional, legal point of view, but even less from a political point of view, so that now four more months, as you suggest, those who are actually threatening in Slovenian streets have some kind of silence, "you see, they have now extended validity by four months, we still have a chance to threaten with death, and so on, nothing will happen to us, because we know that the prosecution is very passive." We will not support this, my fellow opposition. To the conclusion. Once again, there is a signal that this spiral of violence in our country must be stopped. I think that those who call for illegal protests in the worst waves of the epidemic will also be able to achieve, among them, those who face these threats, that those addressed in the law, the highest representatives of the State, Members, Ministers, State Councillors, Supreme, Constitutional Judges should simply not be threatened in this way. I also condemned when a colleague of Haferlet's in committee debate said they had threatened to die, clearly and loudly condemning that this was indeed a rejection, let alone allowing this to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Zlatko Ratej, Secretary of State, asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u68	President, thank you for your word. Let me say, as I have already pointed out on the home committee, that the sharp criticism of the representatives of the State is part of freedom of expression, which is also a stone in the mosaic of the rule of law and democracy. However, – I also said that at that time – this does not apply to threats already under the current criminal regime. I would therefore like to stress today that the criticism of the authorities at present is not a sign of a crime of threat under the current legislation, and given that the amendment of the Penal Code does not change the signs of a crime of threat, it is not, in substance, referred to in the way that it was today in the debate. In this regard, I would stress that the Attorney General still retains the right to decide whether he will lead the prosecution, while also stressing that the Prosecutors are independent in this decision. Today, last year's case law has already been exposed, and I would also like it today, as I have already pointed out on the parental committee, to point out and point out that it is sufficient that the threat is objectively capable of creating intimidation or alarm, and that this practice also implies that the threat must be objectively capable of creating intimidation or alarm, and that it does not require that the victim actually feel intimidated or upset. There was also some talk today about threats being serious. In doing so, I would stress, as I have already said, that the Attorney General is independent, that he still retains the right to prosecute, and that the incrimination of a criminal offence does not change, and that if threats are not serious, he will probably have to reject such an accusation. Today, the Member has also pointed out that she is interested in the evolution of the criminal offence of threat. In 2008 there were basically two crimes that addressed threats. It was a threat to security and a crime of misbehavior. Both crimes were prosecuted on a proposal. The novel in 2011 partially introduced the prosecution of a private action and, in part, on a proposal, and then the amendment in 2015 – this is the amendment of the Penal Code 1C – fully introduced the prosecution on a proposal and this is still in force today. I would also like to point out what was today's speech on statistics. This is not carried out under the circumstances of whether the injured person is an official person. I can also point out that the competent data give rise to an increase in the number of threats, for example from the Annual Report of the State Prosecutors for 2020, suggests that the third-place crime is among the most vilified crimes between 2015 and 2020. The statistics on crime, prepared annually by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, also show an increase in criminal proceedings against the police, from a thousand 543 cases in 2018 to a thousand 917 cases in 2020. Similarly, convictions for the crime of threat from 220 in 2018 increased to 312 in 2020. This should also, of course, be borne in mind that there is a collection of data on the crime of a threat that may have been committed against anyone, since separate statistics, as I have already pointed out, do not run with regard to high-level representatives of the State or all officials. However, we can also foresee a proportionate rise in road threats within the data collection to the country's high representatives. The 2020 police report also shows an increase in threats against police officers, from 37 in 2018 to 60 in 2020. Of course, in this case it is a suspicion of a crime service which does not always prove sufficient in subsequent proceedings in relation to the signs of a crime. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u70	Your Honor, it's not that simple. You're saying they're still going to decide what the courts are going to do. Of course they will! In doing so, you forget, for the first time, that their funds are cut, their judicial backlogs are evident. That's one thing. And the other thing is, we know that the background is about creating an atmosphere of fear. Of course, the judicial authorities will have to process this and, of course, they will reject such nonsense as the declaration that "Death of Janchism" is a threat. Because it's not about ideology, it's not about man, it's about man, it's about that kind of thing that's gonna keep trying to chase. Who are the arbitrators who are going to decide that? Have you equipped with any additional acts of the people who will now be arbitrators with the definition of what the threat is? Because if there is a threat to someone, then we know where we are, and this is absurd and this is creating an atmosphere of fear and discomfort. Will the new authorities prosecute psychologists who will judge when something is a threat and when it is not? The one who feels threatened is the one who thinks about it and can apply today and is already sanctioning it. I received a death threat from a fan of the SDS party and I reported it and the procedure is running. Therefore, no one else had to report for me, and I doubt in this constellation any of the moderated threats would report to me, but would report the “Death of Janshism” banner. That's what we're talking about, respectable and respected. This is not a standard for a democratic society – that we are falling so low that the law enforcement authorities will arbitrarily judge what is a threat and what is not. That's what we're talking about, respectable and respected, to understand each other. And we don't have to do that. Not to mention that society creates the impression that the political class rises above people. Please, where did we go? The Penal Code already regulates these matters, and if anyone's threatened, it goes by duty when you report it. Pika. And that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. If it were only for the transposition of the directives of the European Union into our legal order, in this case the Penal Code, believe that the opposition would not have proposed the suspension of the entry into force of these amendments, nor would they have any substantive comments on this transposition of the Directives. But I ask you what directive we transpose into the Penal Code requires us to introduce a verbal delict into our legal order. What directive is this? Nowhere in the European Union do they know such things within the European Union. Because we feel that this proposed Article 17 by its content means nothing more than, according to domestically explained, verbal delinquency, we propose and insist that this Article 17 be deleted from the proposed law. Given the current situation in the country and after the policy has almost completely subordinated itself to the police, it is, of course, necessary to follow up now with legislation so that the police can act on a policy mandate. Let us ask ourselves who it will take on the basis of this Article 17 if, of course, we do not delete it. Who's she going to take action against? Today we have also heard very clearly in the position of the largest government party – against Friday's protestors. This was made quite clear, i.e. against Friday's protestors, against the readers of the Constitution in the Market of the Republic, against the recitator, the poet in front of the National Assembly. Against those who dare to make public criticism of power. And nothing else can be explained in this article. You're talking about violence. Violence has erupted in some other protests. Violence erupted there. It's strange, it's unusual how long it takes and how hard it is to track down the rioters who caused this outrageous violence on the streets of Ljubljana, so apparently they haven't been found yet. What's going on with the police so slow? That's what we're interested in. That's what we're interested in. This government will make every effort to bring this verbal delinquency into the legal order in Slovenia. To the last breath. This was also announced by Interior Minister Hojs when this attempt to introduce a verbal delinquent failed in the adoption of the law on public order and peace when that article did fly out of law to pressure the public and the opposition. Even though what's left in there is one shit nest. I don't know how now, let's say, the new police measure the excitement when two neighbors get together and yell at each other because of living boundaries. Just as an example. At that time, the Minister of State announced that there would be no such thing as public order and peace, but we will introduce it into the Code of Penalties. I am surprised by the fact that at the Ministry of Justice – where I am sure and know that there are experts gathered who know something about the legal order – the law or article is written by the interior minister and that the justice minister is silent in this regard. Although we were able to hear, of course, that the profession is extremely sceptical to this Article 17 that the High Prosecutor's Office has argued that the possibility of applying this Article is that the Bar Against the Law has not been announced by Minister Dikaucič. He didn't answer. Of course, because, on the one hand, I understand, he adheres to the fact that when certain procedures are under way, he does not comment. Thus, when the procedure for the adoption of law in the National Assembly is clearly under way, it does not comment, as it does not comment, for example, on the non-titlement of European public prosecutors. It's amazing that Minister Hoys has some ideas, and they're jumping into the Justice Department without even thinking. And how do they jump? That's the most important thing in all this story. Since it was not in the proposed amendment on the basis of this Article 17, it was not, in so far as it was coordinated with the expert. Although some experts now deny that they had anything to do with it, they have indicated that they did. But this was not until the moment they rounded up famous letters with bullets, but overnight this article appeared in the novelty of the law. Why? I'm asking you why. This is exactly the same as the novels of the Law on Public Order and Peace, when this so-called verbal delinquent was also not in the basic proposal, and then the Kredarica happened. Then the Kredaryka happened, and also during the night this article appeared in marriage. Who and why and who has some of it to upset the public, upset the professional public, actually upset the political public? In a way, we can say that when this verbal delinquency is still legal somewhere — and you obviously intend to do so in the new Penal Code — we can say in such a manner that you have finally succeeded in accepting lex Janša. Because, in fact, what is the second goal of all this as to how to sanction people who publicly criticize the government? The problem is that someone who speaks out publicly against this government will finally be shut down, or God will not let that banner on which you are in the ruling party, especially in the ruling party, be so allergic. And then this will be an example, this will be an example for everyone else: you better be quiet, you better be quiet, because in Slovenia there is a verbal delinquency. We therefore propose deleting this Article 17. Because slowly in the legislation of all of this, because it smells like repression, it will accumulate so much that the future government, however it may be, will be very difficult to fix these things. It's very hard to fix. Take a look at the adoption of legislation, in which cases our requirements and our amendments are simply to delete the article because it is not necessary. In this case, there is no need and the profession has made it clear to you that there is no need, but you still insist. When fellow Member Ferjan said in his debate that we had been in some other times and that we had said no to them in 1991 - sometimes there was also a verbal delicacy that we said no to him after the independence and democratisation of this society. Prime Minister Janez Janša was one of the great fighters against the verbal delicacy, so it is more surprising that now the government led by the same Janez Janša, with the support of the coalition, wants to reinvigorate this verbal delinquent after 30 years in the Republic of Slovenia. What does the adoption of this Article mean? It means change, a big change in Slovenian society. It means a frightened company.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I didn't quite get it. Bullet's not a verbal offense, and you talked about it. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u74	Nice greetings, Members and Members of Parliament! For several years now, as some of you know, I have worked in the judiciary – I have been closely following the work of the Justice Ministry, and I am also aware that there are always several directives and conventions and other different protocols in this area, and so on, which must be implemented into domestic legislation. This is a process, a work process that has been going on continuously through years and years, the legislation is being supplemented and every so many ministries come to the National Assembly by approving certain laws. Even in this law we are talking about today, I am sure that I have looked at some good solutions, some needed solutions, some solutions that, I am sure, have been preparing in this ministry for quite some time. But what good is it if then – because I know how it goes – someone in the government picked up the phone last minute and said: you're going to put this in the marriage? The law involves such a plant, an article or two that triggers a complete revolution not only on the part of the opposition, usually on the part of the professional and general public. And then the whole, maybe a well-intentioned marriage is threatened and not adopted because of one such plant. This law, as has been said many times today, is no exception. The most obvious thing is that the coalition, even though it has failed once before, is trying to use the same pattern of stricter sanction in a crime of threat. Let me say that as far as I'm concerned personally, it's not my client's position, but it's my personal position, even if this crime was prosecuted by official duty, I don't know what kind of tragedy that is. It could live on, it doesn't seem to me the end of democracy or the end of the world, a verbal delicacy, in itself that fact. And it would seem to me that, either by official duty or by private action, even the solution to official duty would be better. I'm going to tell you my experience a few years ago when I got my home address in a mailbox with my name on it not only to me personally, but also to my children, with sex kids, it's said, someone knew where we are at home and what sex we are. At the time, I went to report it to the police, and there was a private suit in place. So, Mr. Policeman listened to me, wrote me down and said, you know, ma'am, to a private lawsuit, so go ahead and get a lawyer and start chasing it. Which, of course, I didn't make up my mind, and I didn't have time, and so on. But this is not about this dilemma. This is a second dilemma, a dilemma, or an existing regime, this is an arrangement on the proposal, sufficient to deal with the dilemmas I have just discussed. That's enough. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's crucial to me that someone then helps you, some expert, a state prosecutor, and leads this process forward, not you doing it with your lawyer, with your expenses, and so on. We have this answer in existing legislation. What is more amusing to me in this amendment of the law is not just an attempt to change it, but an attempt to tighten it up in this article. It's interesting to me, and -- what would you say? – fun to observe developments in the National Assembly from the moment I first became an MP, there somewhere in 2011. At that time, it was a long time and also a time when the party of the SDS was in opposition, for them freedom of speech. Holy. Freedom of speech, that's something absolute, and anyone can say anything, because freedom of speech applies. And they support it, they use it, they abuse it, private discredits and so on, their various trolls and basements on social media and so on. Whenever anyone dared to say anything in the direction, something had to be done about the hate speech, about prosecution, they wanted to get mixed up — because freedom of speech, not that. Freedom of speech distinguishes the old communists from the advanced Democrats. Now, look at that, one and a half years in government, perfect conversion. That conversion is complete and that understanding of this article is quite different, as even a purely technical person like me would have understood it, tells me Mr Ferryan's debate. What did he understand about the threat to that tweet?Oh, my God! Of all the things he's read, the threat could be one thing. If he has any quantification and a repulsion, or anything written there, and that it is to vomit and so forth, a threat seems to him, then someone very misinterprets this article that we are talking about today. To misinterpret it and to understand it as some kind of sanctioning, the whole context of your operation shows. Just such a change in the Penal Code – come on, professional debate, either on official duty or on prosecution, or now it is necessary, which is better and so on. Of course, the case law, the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights, should also be taken into account and should be able to discuss professionally what the real level of such a crime is. But if we look at the whole context in which we are in this society right now, things are getting really different. When we look at the fact that, for the first time in the history of this country, you solved more than 100 police station and commandeers yesterday — in a rumor, everyone has concluded that they have been relieved of their functions — something that has not yet happened in this country. If the fact that we're changing cops like this - of course with the threat that if we find out that you're not real and that you're not ours, you won't be named again, because what else - let's add that the government has been blocking the appointment of state prosecutors for some time. I'm talking about ordinary state prosecutors now. The government has the names of state prosecutors who haven't been appointed for months because they're not real. I don't even know what some people did. If I add to this the famous story of two European Delegated Prosecutors, which you do not want to name [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u75	Colleague, please focus on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u76	Then this context is even more dangerous. In particular, because delegated state prosecutors review the misuse of European funds. If I add this in this context [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u77	Colleague, please focus on the amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u78	That in this house the SDS did not appoint the two Supreme Judges proposed by the Council of Justice simply did not appoint them, because in some proceedings they once made a wrong decision, then we see that it is a rounded system of action that includes the whole repressive area and the whole repressive body. The judiciary, where the courts and the Council of Justice belong, and so on, where funding is being reduced, the prosecution, who also has some independence and independence, not to mention the abuse of the NPU, not to mention the abuse of coercion and violence in demonstrations, not to mention, as I said before, what is happening with the police, and now in this field of repression, the amendment of the Penal Code in terms of exacerbation. Each thing in particular, coincidence, maybe awkwardness, indiscretion, all together a clear tendency. A clear trend towards an authoritarian state, a state of complete control, a country that once again understands that the state is governed by power, as it once was, but not by legal means and by a legal framework and by a legal order, as in modern democratic countries. Despite the fact that my debate, despite some of the Vice-President's interventions, has never gone beyond the framework of the change that I have put into some context, I would end up with a concrete crime and a joke that I have already repeated and say what is wrong with such a definition of crime. This joke went on the Internet and it went like this. At demonstrations in front of the National Assembly, one of the protestors screams out: “Take John, John is a criminal!” And the officer responsible for the police said, "You know what? Now it is enough, and this is a crime.” And the protestor said, "Why is it a crime, because I did not say which John is a criminal." And the cop says to him, "You didn't say, but we all know who you were thinking of." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I would really like to ask everyone who discusses and discusses the subject of amendments, articles, basics, and so on. You don't have to add any other stuff. Otherwise, this article extends powers, does not cramp. And it doesn't interfere with that, but it gives you professional grounds for these things. Procedural Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u80	In terms of interpreting the rules of procedure, for which you like to say how well you know it, I have been asking myself for some time now whether your comments are in the midst of your debate on which we have a replica, or are you saying something to yourself? Because it's not process management. So please tell me by which point of the Rules of Procedure [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u81	Colleague, quote the provision of the Rules of Procedure. Please, if [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u82	Please don't touch my word because you've granted me a procedural proposal. And I ask you to tell me by which point of the Rules of Procedure you comment in the context of a substantive discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u83	My colleague, I have the right to intervene. I have not intervened in your debate, but I have told you that the article is expanding its powers and that proceedings are being initiated on an official basis, an expert procedure and not a personal one, and so on. I suggest, well, that if you intervene again, please state the provision of the Rules of Procedure where the breach occurred. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You tell her because you asked for a procedural proposal! Procedurally Natasha Sukich. Comrade Korazi, if you want, you will get the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u84	Dear President, this has become a practice only for you to fall into the word all the time when we are discussing Members and Members of the opposition in particular. This is seen almost at each agenda item in plenary sessions. That is why you are obliged to explain to us, as colleague Maša Kociper claims, under which article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly you take the right to interfere in our deliberations in such a way as to interrupt and polynomise during the debate alone. Not to break up, to argue with Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. In particular, at the previous point, you've been having an argument with your colleague Violeto Tomić, and I've seen with my own eyes when I've been accompanying the meeting, and you've done the same thing to your colleague Maša Kociper all the time, and you're doing it all the time, and you're the only chairman of the National Assembly to do it. Therefore, please explain to us what section of the Rules of Procedure you are allowing yourself such freedom to intervene in our deliberations and to interrupt our discussions. We have the right to know this and have the right to know the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u85	Colleague Sukič, we are discussing today whether it will determine whether to initiate the procedure on an official basis, left in a solution that is written down or not. We are not talking about delegated prosecutors, we are not talking about discharges by the heads of police administrations, we are not talking about what is in the government, so that prosecutors are not called, and so on. We're talking about a specific matter. Specific matters. And I have proposed, and I have told you before, that to all those who will discuss, I suggest that you speak about what the article and the amendment tabled or the amendment tabled. There's no need for another. When there will be another debate, we will discuss and discuss another and we will not intervene there. I will lead the debate in accordance with the rules of procedure and the rules that are here. Procedurally Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u86	Again, Your Honor. First time. We are interested in an article that allows you to freely interpret what this debate means in the National Assembly. Because we all know that in politics things are connected, that you can't discuss things in a partial way without this thing being connected to anything else. So things are highly intertwined, highly intertwined and one effect on other laws and vice versa. I'm interested in an article that allows you your own, free judgement that you decide what is permissible and what is not. In fact, you are already contravening the freedom of speech to Members and Members of Parliament. Not only are we here today talking about the future violation of free speech by citizens [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u87	My colleague, I'll give you an answer right away.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u88	Here, shake the words of the representatives of the people. You will not allow us to have a debate, a political debate, as said. Things are intertwined. It's interwoven, and it doesn't matter. What we are discussing today is also very much related to a lot of others, and we are proving this in the debates, and you are not allowing us to do so and you are taking our word for it. In fact, you are already violating the freedom of speech in Parliament, not just in the Penal Code, as you now intend to do. I ask for a specific article that allows you to freely interpret your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u89	And I told you, second sentence of paragraph 75. It says exactly that a speaker or a speaker can only talk about what is on the agenda. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Don't hold it. I've told you what he doesn't hold in these debates. Continue [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not making any more procedural proposals. I won't. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, we'll get started. I propose that the procedural proposals be procedural. First of all, Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u90	Dearly beloved, before the colleague said it was procedural – because in fact it is not possible to do anything anymore because everything is intertwined – I raised my hand to apply for the debate because it will probably be the next round. But I'm saying you can't work at all because people just raise their hands, so I'm actually applying for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u91	Okay. Procedural Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u92	In this procedural debate with you only because you refer to an article that allows you to act, I would point out that you refer to an article that states that the speaker should talk about the subject, not an article that would stipulate that after the Member has finished its debate, you can have a substantive debate with him on his debate. That's how you deny yourself. Another time. I have been discussing the subject all the time, and I have described a context that does not allow me to support a concrete legal solution. If this were not the case, she might even be willing to consider such a change in the law. Thus, I do not allow you to have the last word and that the public thinks that we have violated the procedure in the debate. We didn't! You are in violation of him when you comment on Ambassador Medved, on Ambassador Sukič, on me and on whom we have discussed, and you are giving some opinions and explanations that no one has asked you about.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u93	My colleague, if you are not satisfied with my conduct and the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, you have the opportunity to refer the matter to the Rules of Procedure Commission. This is where the chairman decides. Colleague Natasha Sukić, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a procedural suggestion that you quote clearly and aloud what is said in this article, which allows you to do so. I'm asking you to quote this so that the public will hear what your interventions really mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. See, the next second sentence of the third paragraph accurately states that the speaker can only reach out to the chairman. However, it does not say that the speaker may reach out to the chairman. Anyone else want to continue the debate? I'll start the application procedure. Please sign up. First he gets the word Predrag Baković. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u96	It's not working. Oh, there it is. It's okay. Thank you very much for your words, chairman. My debate will focus on the amendment to Article 17. I'd like to explain something in the beginning. In fact, the offence pursued on a proposal or on an official duty is all crimes prosecuted under an official obligation, provided that the assumption identifying the institution of the proposal for prosecution is that the injured person must make this proposal explicitly and when he submits it is an officially prosecuted offence. As far as this article 17 is concerned, I agree with the coalition colleagues who said that there is no change in substance. That's right. However, the motion to prosecute these crimes for the highest representatives of the State, the Member State, the Council of State and so on is being withdrawn and initiated on an official basis. My colleague Kaloh kindly reminded me a few days ago or reminded me of a judicata who speaks of the fact that a subjective sense of danger or excitement is no longer needed, and I have actually read this judicature and followed it. I can stress this, but it also says: "The commission of a crime in the basic form is therefore completed after the novel KZ1B, when the perpetrator, in relation to the injured person, expresses a serious threat and the injured person becomes aware of it. The word “in” means that this is not a cumulative one, but an obligation. So, the crime was committed not when the threat was made, but when the victim became aware of it. How do these investigators get this information? They get in such a way that the victim asks if you're familiar. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't leave this as a prosecution proposal. If it remains as a proposal for prosecution, it is said that we are all the same before the law as neighbours who are fighting and threatening themselves because of the irregular border, as well as if there is a threat to a senior representative. Of course, the devil did not see peace and I also went this novel KZ-1B and the explanation to this 135th article. And listen to what it says in there. They discuss the difference between this crime and the offence against public order and peace. And this is what the legislator writes, which is what the legislator or the proponent writes, and then the legislator accepted – that the qualitative difference is in the circumstances that the content of the threat – beware – and consequently a sense of danger because why should the injured person get acquainted with it? [[...]] Probably to explain that he's threatened by this. Thus, the difference is in the circumstances that the content of the threat and the resulting sense of danger in the offence relates to a direct attack against the life or body and other of the most important goods of a particular injured person, the intention of the perpetrator in the direction of intimidation or harassment of a particular person. I respect this judicature, which my colleague Kaloh has, of course, highlighted, and I cannot challenge. Yeah, but we still have three branches of authority. We have a court, we have a legislative, and we have an executive. And if the legislature somehow prescribes and explains what has led to this change, then the situation, according to my assessment, is clear enough. Clear enough. And I am not questioning anything other than that the official duty is not technically enforceable because the crime is not completed until the injured person is aware of the threat. This means that in all of these stories, which have fuelled these changes and relate to some demonstrations, to the banners, kill them, kill them, and so on, can't come to completion of the crime until the injured person is aware of it. [[…]] And that is also the meaning of the proposal for prosecution. And that's why I think it would be right to keep it the way it is. Look at the case. My friend Ferjan used to explain these things, which were also discussed by his colleagues. It's true, it's not nice, and it's not right, and everyone feels bad when they read these things. In one of my discussions in the past, I have already given some challenge, that it doesn't matter who threw that first stone to trigger the plasma of hate speech, but it's our fault in the first place. And we're not as young as the old ones who have been here for many years. And then I also gave a challenge that if we're able to hold off on hate speech for a month and some, I'll say, slap, that kind of thing. And we didn't last three days. What I'm trying to say is that what my colleague Ferjan said is mostly about regret. Nor is it a serious threat because a serious threat must be made. And it's a pity. And what happened in 2014? In 2014, you deleted offences against honour and a good name from the Penal Code, namely, you wrote — those you were then in the National Assembly — that the acts referred to in 158, 166, committed against the State authority and the military and so on, are prosecuted on a proposal, except for the officials referred to in Article 1, paragraph 29. Do you know who's in point one? But we are the Messengers, and all the rest: those whom ye have now brought back in. And I went to watch who voted and how you voted at the time. You've all supported, you've all supported, including the SDS, including the NSI, including the SMC. And now I don't get it here. Because of the current situation that we have, when everything is strained by the crown and I don't know what else, we're going to change it now ad hoc. That's when you wrote in there that this is necessary because we just have to take the politics a little bit more. I do not agree, and I am the first to condemn the fact that the Member and anyone, not only the Member, whoever, must not receive: we will come after you, you are, betting with various insults. [[…]] But, Your Honor, we've helped ourselves a lot! You know, if we're betting on each other, then people will say, if they can, so can we. It's not about the system that what's allowed by God is not allowed by the ox. This isn't about this system. People have a mirror in us and they're looking at us. And I don't understand. Okay, I understand these older people, who you've been kind of in this thing for a while now, if I may say so, but some young people who are full, I'm going to say poison, poison and some kind of hatred that you express through words, but with non-verbal communication. And that's what counts, dear fellows. And if we don't start here ourselves in this way in order to maintain ourselves or to hold back from these outbursts, I'm not just speaking to the right-hand side now, I'm also speaking if you want to, in my client, in my left option and so on. Everywhere. I'm trying to hold on to this, and I'm gonna stick with it all the time. Once again, the proposal for prosecution is a strong enough institution for the public authorities, including for officials, that we can manage the situation. Of course, a serious threat must be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert also has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Of course, I will limit myself to today's debate or agenda item. It is true, however, that I must also say that sometimes it is very difficult to work in this national assembly, because some continue to obstruct work with some procedural proposals that are not at all. I hope that every chairman will indeed lead the meeting by having the same vats and will also adequately stop these people. Otherwise, we can listen all day only to one person who comes from the opposite side, practically all day long to her procedural proposals. There's something procedural, but there's something about abuse. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u99	I suggest you go to the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u100	So, I'm going to the content, absolutely. First of all, I have to answer what happened to my colleague Ferjan, who actually had a very high-quality debate, and I think that's actually a problem because he hit that major and then, of course, there's a problem. I think most of all, I'll say, some surprise from the SD when they said that something is an hate speech, something is not an hate speech, something could be an hate speech, something someone could just say, and it's not an hate speech. I don't think you, not me, not anyone in this room can guarantee what the person who expresses himself hostilely wants. Well, you can make a threat, and someone will say it, because this person doesn't mean it, and so on. This is not exactly the case, and I am the one who advocates that every threat, of course, must be checked very precisely and, of course, also sanctioned. For from verbal violence is only one step further to physical; and we have come to know this. If not elsewhere, we have come to know these protests, which, prior to the appointment of this government, are protests against this government. At one point in time, these protests crossed the line. Remember Zlatko, remember his comrades, or whatever I may say, with criminal history, and they clearly and loudly wanted to charge our streets and people, the Slovenians from their so-called cities. That's what's been going on, and we've all heard it. Now, as far as the amendment is concerned. The fact that you and the amendments have somehow begun to postpone the implementation of this law is somewhat unusual. Otherwise, colleague Masha Kociper said that she thought it was fun to accept or change the law. I don't think this topic is very much fun, but it's very serious for me, and we have a problem in the country. And if someone takes this topic so easily that he prepares an amendment and says that it is necessary to put it into effect in one year and for some in four months, it shows that he is mocking the proposal. The amendment that it takes a law, a certain matter, to apply in fact only one year from now, and the explanation says that this is to make the system adaptable, then you know you're being a fool. Remember, this is what you like to stress in particular, that the war for Slovenia lasted 10 days. Can you imagine? Here we are talking about the fact that some enforcement of the law should only be introduced within a year because the system needs to be adapted. These are ridiculous things. For some others, you say that within four months, they will be established after the adoption of the law. So, the law is being passed today, in effect four months from now. And that's very well said by my colleague Ferjan that the matter is very interesting because it coincides with the elections. So, let's give it another four months, right, and some level up there, with these threats, and then it's gonna be the way it's gonna be. But let's leave it at that, these are your amendments, you have all the right and opportunity to file them. But we'd stay here while you're talking, you, you. Now you want to destroy every communication, every criticism you want to destroy; it is said, there must be no criticism. People have to respect that, but look, today you're opposed to it, and your teenager has requested Twitter enforcement or on social networks so-called online police. But this is your proposal, but your young man, you've never been away from the subject, so you've distanced yourself. Whatever. So if someone doesn't distance themselves from their own teenager, I think they support him. But that was your suggestion. It could have been a routine review, and some online police would have intervened. But here we are talking about the start of a procedure, the pursuit of an official duty, which will still have to be demonstrated, but by your online police, that would not be the case, would it? And more than that, just so we know where we are. During the time of your government, the gentleman who turned to me also wrote down something about your president. It's nothing like that. And today you'd say it's not even a insult, but interestingly enough, the police were at the door. The Lord has been dealt with. Very quickly one thing in the country comes to pass if you might mention a name that comes from your kind. But look, if the rules apply to all and the same vats, I'll be the first to support it, but be valid. I keep listening to this mantra, that it's kind of started to come up with some tweeting, some insulting writings, and that it's been stepping up. Colleagues and colleagues, where were you in 2014? Some in politics, some of you did some other things, different things, but let me remind you, that's when the former president of the country on the street ran it down with a reporter. [[…]] At the time, this journalist was employed at Channel A, and Milan Kučan, with her surprisingly offensive, sexistly charged with a statement, asked him a question and Kučan replied: “Have you not yet married?” The answer to her substantive question is the answer, but you are not yet married! And the reporter said no. And he said, "Then deal with it." Have you ever heard anyone say anything about Milan Kučan being inappropriate, answering her question? Never! But there's something else surprising, and I don't know. Look, I'm saying this completely casually, and I don't know, but I never saw that reporter again. I don't know if she left her job or got tired of herself, look, I leave it to others, she probably knows, but I haven't seen her. For example, it was such an interesting thing to talk about how some things are then graded or appropriate when it comes to one political option and completely inappropriate when it comes to another political option. So, here, just to enforce some things, this is just some manoeuvre that you're trying to achieve that the hate speech would not be pursued by official duty. I think it's right that you do and that this is true for everyone, for everyone. So it's not that you know exactly what it's like for an individual not to react in any way or in any way, but it's not that bad, some people eat and eat some insults. [[…]] But you know, they're piling up. I will not judge which offense is worse, which is less severe, which threat is worse, which is less severe or which is serious and which is not serious. I can't overestimate that. It's the ones who've been called in for it. However, I hope that this is what I wanted to say with this debate that we will be right in doing so and that everything will be the same. If I or my colleague Meira declare that we will, in fact, be given the same treatment. But that's not happening. This isn't happening. I hope that this novel will, however, be adopted so that this matter will be carried out as proposed by law. But you know, I think we'll just think about it, because today we can spit shit on one political option. I'm not just saying this to you, listen to the debates that have been. It's still being said that janchism is ideology and so on. You know, it's not that it's funny, it's sad. You know, I can't save today, then says colleague Masha Kociper, "he just wants to mess with you if anyone says anything about you." I mean, look at this, we already have a level of speech in here so it's nowhere to be found. There's nothing going on with me. But I know it's a big problem, and that's what I've been saying to the expert when some things in the country are being tolerated, but I've been talking about this with certain representatives of the profession in this area, and they say we're all on very thin ice together. And in this Slovenia, serious things have already happened in the past. We know very well that one of the presidential candidates was murdered. The alarms should have been so rigged by then, I'd say it's all settled, but that's the way it is. Now we're here where we are. In short, let's think about it all together. I think it's for the good of all of us and that people know there are boundaries. That there are boundaries somewhere, and it's only right that if they don't know how to set them themselves, then the legislator has to put them up. Someone's got to set them up. However, as for the fact that we are now focusing on some of the police, on some of the duties of the police officers, who are the first and so on, I will end with only one: let him lift up or throw away a stone that has no stain. But you know what that's like. So think about this amendment, about the amendment you tabled, that you do see that it is not good, that it is somehow a little bit of a vine, and that it might be good that this legal change will come into effect.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Is it a replica or is it a debate? Procedurally, Baković first. He used to ask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u102	Dear Vice-President, I would only appeal to you and, of course, to all the debaters to focus on the subject alone. What's this all about? I believe we can explain in the context of an hate speech, but if we are talking about an amendment to Article 17, which speaks of a crime of threat, I must say that hate speech essentially involves crimes of public promotion of hatred, violence or intolerance, which is not the subject of this. And we cannot interfere, because neither will people understand that the threat is one, that is one delict, but the hate speech is another delict and crimes against honour and a good name are a third delict. What am I trying to say, and what is my procedural proposal? To focus, so if we discuss the threat, let's focus on the threat not on the hate speech, because it's something else entirely, legally speaking. I understand the context in which the colleague discussed it, but, of course, it escapes those who do not know it, and also people. The hate speech is one part, the threat itself is another part and the debate and, of course, the debate is about the threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I am also constantly trying to direct the text of the basic article, the amended article and the amendment, and I do not know, I hope that those who cover the area understand how the debate should proceed. Natasha Sukich, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u104	Dearly beloved, then I ask you not to have double vats and to consistently interpret this interpretation of what is the subject of the debate and what is not, both with the opposition and the coalition MPs. My colleague just had a little swim outside the box, and you didn't interrupt her at all. Therefore, I ask that you do this consistently above all or above none. It would be better on no one because you're interfering with our debates, but if you're going to do what you're doing, go to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thanks for the heads-up. I'm trying. Look, I've already warned my colleague at the beginning of her debate that he should go to the subject and the amendment. So I'm doing it in accordance with the rules of procedure. I think it went well in this part. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u106	President, I have a procedure. I'm really asking you to warn both of you about me. My friend Buckovich, I understand, but if he listened to me, I said that some verbal violence either starts with someone talking, an enemy speech, and it's always going on and it's a threat soon. I've been discussing this. I was talking about the threat. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u107	Colleague Bah, procedurally [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u108	Let me tell you something.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u109	is intended for the chairman, not for colleague Bakovic, not for Sukicev. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u110	I'm just saying, I answer that my procedural proposal is to make people procedural when it comes to procedural matters. I didn't go outside the debate. Besides, it would be good to get a reminder, but I didn't go because I was talking about the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u111	My colleague and others, I ask you not to take such instructions to the chairman, but to remind someone who does not. I'll do it myself after my own judgment. I'm not bound to such instructions, nor are the other presidents, not as much as any of us sow water. I suggest that you do not use such tricks that are not of a procedural nature. Anyone else want to discuss this article? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is for a re-decision on the Act of Amendment and Supplement to the Medical Act. At its 27th extraordinary meeting, on 27 October 2021, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before its announcement, decide again on the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. For the opening presentation, I should give the floor to the representative of the Council of State. Is he there? Yeah, there you go. Mr. Kovšca, you have the floor. Please, if you'll come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u112	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new ZLD-1C Pharmacy Act provides for the addition of Article 26 of the Pharmaceutical Activity Act, which adds a new third, fourth and fifth paragraphs, which provide that under certain conditions a public pharmacy or a self-government local community may establish an organisation whose main activity is the supply of medicines. Article 26 of the Act on Pharmacy Activities-1 prohibits so-called vertical ownership or capital connections in both directions. Thus, pharmacists must not establish, manage or supervise legal entities engaged in activities or traffic in bulk with medicinal products. Likewise, legal persons engaged in the activity of trafficking in medicinal products for wholesale use shall not hold shares in capital or other investments in legal entities engaged in a pharmaceutical activity. On the basis of the supplement adopted, the prohibition of the establishment of legal persons who carry out pharmaceutical activities by legal entities engaged in the activity of the production or traffic in bulk with medicinal products, as well as organisations whose basic activity is the supply of medicinal products, should still not be set up by private pharmacies. Such an organisation could only be established by a public pharmacy institution or a self-governanced local community, and this creates the inequality of market stakeholders and thus violates a constitutionally defined free economic initiative. Such an arrangement also puts local communities at odds, as smaller local communities will not be able to provide resources for the establishment and operation of their own medicines supply organisation. This is why the proposed solutions were opposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Private Pharmacies, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Section of Drug Traders, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Association of Employers of Slovenia. In the context of the examination of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities-1C at the 16th ordinary session of the Committee of the National Health Council, the competent Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Public Agencies of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices, the Chamber of Medicine of Slovenia, the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia and could also list. In view of the protection of competition, the Unilateral possibility of establishing a capital ownership link was also opposed by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which is based on its position, which is published on the website of the National Assembly. In the context of the second reading of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activity-1C, the Council of State also gave its opinion on the amended proposal for a law. According to the opinion, the State Council did not support the amended proposal of the law, as it recognized in the proposal the attempt to dominate the interests of capital over the interest of protecting public health and the threat of the operation of the entire public pharmacy network. That's what it says on page 8 of the document. The implementation of the adopted solution would result in a reduction in the supply standards set out, inter alia, by both the Medicinal Products Act and Directive 2001/83 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community Code on Medicinal Products for Human Use, Official Journal No. 311 of 28. 11. 2001, page 67. Directive 2012/26 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 amending Directive 2001/83 as regards pharmacovigilance was last amended. The proposed solutions are also not in line with the provisions of the Medicinal Products-2 Act, which lays down, inter alia, the public service obligations, the obligation to supply all medicines, the obligation to provide all business entities, as provided for in the Medicinal Products-2 Act. The Medicinal Products-2 Act, which is in line with the Directive, provides in Article 107 that a legal person who carries out the supply of medicinal products must obtain the authorisation of the regulatory authority to carry out the activities of trafficking in medicinal products. An organisation whose basic activity is the supply of medicinal products which would have been established under the new third or fourth paragraph of Article 26 of the ZLD-1 would not have been able and obliged to provide services in the public interest, as provided for in Article 108 of the Medicinal Products Act. [[sign for the end of the debate]] If I'm allowed another minute. If not, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u114	Because the State Council doesn't have a chance to talk anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u115	Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Kovsca, please. I'm in charge of the session, not Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u116	The President-in-Office, at the last session of the National Assembly, suggested that I should not present the opinion of the Council of State because of the cost-effectiveness of the available time, and that I could not speak here in business except what the opinion of the Council of State is officially adopted. Given the short time available, I will respect your rules of procedure. I will not steal your time. Unfortunately, such materials as the decision on the veto of the State Council cannot be presented within five minutes by the Council of State. I'm so sorry. I think the public has the right to know that the State Council here can only perform for five minutes and then there is no more opportunity to explain its views, to answer questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Kovska. Now, just to inform you that your opinion is also in writing, so that it is also accessible to all Members. Procedural Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thanks for the procedure. The President of the Council of State had the opportunity to come to the Health Committee and present all his views and views on the Council of State. Discussed for five hours [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u119	My colleague, it's procedurally meant for me, not my colleague Kovšci.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u120	If he wanted to, he didn't do it. [[…]] Why he didn't do it, I don't know, and I don't care. There's no right here to steal our time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u121	Colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik, meeting of the National Assembly is chaired by the chairman. I've told you this before. However, I think it is rather impolite that a member of the Parliament at a plenary meeting of the National Assembly should be so rudely circumcised with the President of the State Council, who is a constitutional part and also has the right to say. It has been a little longer, he has asked, and the President decides whether or not he will give or not and we have not actually violated any matters here. We're moving on. The request was considered by the Health Committee as a parent of the labour force. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to President Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'll be brief. We are on the Health Committee at our 64th emergency meeting. 11. Considered, for the request of the Council of State for re-decision in the National Assembly has come. The fact is that we have pros and cons with regard to the Lek Act or amendments; on the one hand, we have Members who support this law, on the other hand, Members who oppose this law. The Law-Legal Service also gave its opinion on the law or re-examination. The Ministry of Health also gave its opinion. After the discussion, we also voted and adopted the following decision that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities was not essentially appropriate or that sufficient Members and Members had not voted in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the proposaler of the Magi Act. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! I guess, president, maybe I'll have a little bit more if it works out. Why was the Council of State vetoed to amend the Law on Pharmacy, which has only one, and this is Article 6? The legitimate decision of the Council of State, but it must be re-emphasized that this Article 6 fully transposes the European Directive No 24 known as “and home” for public procurement, which is intended solely to prevent the looting of the public sector by the private sector. The veto of the State Council has fully exposed Slovenian politics, pharmaceutical expertise and its associated networking, which exists and operates in the field of pharmacy activities. The pharmaceutical activity and the related supply of medicinal products is an extremely profitable business, which shows that part of the policy and its network connections are active in the last year, especially in the last month, so that well-functioning public pharmacies are systematically impoverished in their operations. In doing so, it refers to the so-called professional public, and this is the solution to the privatisation of all pharmacy activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Who represents the so-called professional public, and below. The intention after privatisation is first and foremost demonstrated by the State Secretary, the Ministry of Health, with its co-workers, who constantly oppose the European Directive No 24 and provides a model comparison of the arrangements of individual countries within EU countries, namely that only pharmacists must be the owners of pharmacies or suppliers of medicinal products. Such justification is followed by the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia and the lobbying professional public. The State Secretary's statements on the Home Health Committee were as follows: “As regards vertical links, it is a purely bare capital interest of two major municipalities.” Complete deception and ignorance of Article 38 of the current Act on Pharmacy. Furthermore, its statement: “Major or exclusive pharmacy owners must be pharmaceutical professionals.” With regard to Farmadent and Grossista, however, her claim that these are two companies that are to operate but have to change ownership. In short, the Chamber of Medicine’s conviction that the entire professional public opposes the amendment of the law has two faces. And who is recognized by the professional public? Individuals from the Faculty of Pharmacy, Pharmaceuticals, notably concessionaires, members of the Chambers of Interest and Housing, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and persons who are in any way related or related or dependent on the donations or other benefits of Chemofarmation and Salus. It is amazing how to trust Chemofarmation and Salus by the professional public, even though the Competition Agency already found in 2013 that these two companies abused their position on the supply market for medicines between 2007 and 2013 with regard to the pricing of medicines, market sharing and the award of tailored offers in the procurement process. Therefore, at least for that period, they can be said to have benefited from public funds for medicinal products. The so-called professional public convinces all of us that both should continue in their own and not in the public interest in the role of monopolies in the supply of medicines in the Republic of Slovenia. The opponents of Article 6 constantly believe that the drafters, the SMC Group, have drawn up a lobbying law. But the real lobbyists are alone because they want [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] only two suppliers remain in Slovenia; one in foreign ownership, the other with hidden owners. At the end of the sentence on the grounds of the State Council, why the veto was voted. I quote: "The National Council of the amended bill has not supported it, as it recognized in the proposal the attempt to dominate the interests of capital over the interest of protecting the health of the population and the threat of the operation of the entire public pharmacy network." End of statement. That explanation only proves that the State Council is not fully aware of the content of Article 26 of the Drug Control Act, which contains only a provision to prevent looted public sector by private law. All the activities of opponents of the proposed Article 6 are further strengthened by the proposers of this amendment, the SMC Group of Members, in the belief that the Slovenian drug supply market must also be after 31. 12. 2021 continue to work Maribor Farmadent and Ljubljana's Grossist. Mr President, thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Representatives of the parliamentary groups shall have the floor to present their views. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Greetings to all present! Today, at the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, we are again deciding on the Act on Pharmacy Activities-1C. The State Council of the Republic of Slovenia is at its 27th extraordinary session. Ten. 2021 Upon consideration of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities of the ZLD-1C adopted by the National Assembly at its 26th regular session 20. Ten. 2021 Pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it has adopted a request that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Activities of the ZLD-1C. The current Act on Pharmacy Activities 2017 placed the quality, safety and efficiency of the provision of medicines to the population and thus the public interest in health protection first. The reasons for the prohibition of vertical connections in both directions, the manufacturer-velodrogerist-medicine, and the purpose of the provisions of Article 26 of the ZLD-1, by which the legislator absolutely prohibits vertical connections, are in the professional independence of the pharmacists, whose primary concern was the care of individual health and the protection of public health, to minimise the economic impact on the professional decisions of pharmacists and to ensure that the operators of pharmaceutical activities operate in accordance with professional and ethical standards. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the ZLD needs to ensure the expertise of pharmaceuticals and its employees, pharmaceutical masters, access to medicines and follow the needs of citizens for quality pharmaceutical services. We come from results and experiences and good practice and conditions on the ground. It is therefore necessary to regulate the pharmacy activity, which includes general restrictions on the operators of pharmacy activities, as set out in Article 26 of the ZLD-1 Act, which regulates and prohibits vertical connections. This article, on the other hand, is a motion for an amendment approved in the National Assembly of 20. Ten. 2021, modified and modified to allow vertical connections, which can have negative consequences for the supply of medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia. The opposition of the novel was spoken by the entire professional public, namely, Faculty of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy of Slovenia, Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, Slovenian Pharmaceutical Society, Faculty of Pharmacy, Association of Medical Organizations, including the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. The holder of the pharmacy activity and the operator of the activity must be fully independent in the performance of their work, as it is only in this way that the expertise, advice and protection of the health of the individual and of the society as a whole can be ensured. The veto of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the re-decision on the law shall be justified. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will vote against the novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues! The Law on Pharmacy was introduced in February this year and contained a number of different solutions, but the most significant were two: the abolition of the prohibition of vertical connections and the new definition of the gravitational area of pharmacies and thus the network of pharmacies. From the introduction of the novel to the confirmation of the meeting of the National Assembly, we have succeeded in correcting the bill to the extent that it contains only one further amendment, which is crucial for the Slovenian drug market, I am talking about the abolition of the prohibition of vertical links in pharmaceutical activities, and such a law was also confirmed by Members in September by 47 votes and 37 against. In the proposed law, the National Council recognized, I state, “the attempt to dominate the interests of capital over the interest of protecting the health of the population and the threat to the operation of the entire public pharmacy network”. [[…]] This is total nonsense, ignorance of the law, deception, or fat lie. At this point, I wonder what the interests are in the background of what the interests of the State Council are. We do not know this because the representatives of the State Council did not come to the meeting of the Health Committee, where we discussed the call for re-decision and, of course, where we could explain our decision in detail. In the LMŠ, we regret that state councilors, including representatives of local authorities, thus municipalities, do not pursue public interest, but have obviously decided to pursue the interests of private capital. Let me get back to the content of the law. The adoption of the law will prevent capital from taking over the interests of protecting the health of the population. Let me explain. The Slovenian drug market is effectively controlled by four wholesalers: LL Grossist, Farmadent, who are publicly owned, i.e. owned by the Municipality of Ljubljana and Maribor and Salus and Chemofarmation, which are privately owned. If we do not lift the ban on vertical connectivity in public work, competition in the field of wholesale drugs will end. The municipalities of Ljubljana and Maribor will have to sell their velorogists by the end of this year. And who do you think will buy them? Salus or Chemofarmation, which would thus take over the dominant position in the Slovenian drug market. It's about money! This could soon lead to drug stimulation. Moreover, such an arrangement would also mean making profits in private pockets. Let me remind you once again that it's two multinational societies, at least one is in foreign ownership, and one is not the best thing to know. We would be in a situation where Slovenian public interest in the supply of medicines would be limited by the supply and prices of non-public-owned companies. Are the privates going to allocate funds for the public good? Probably not. It is therefore imperative that the law before us be reaffirmed. It is the vertical links that enable the recovery of revenue to the municipalities, and these funds are intended for the development of public health activities, for example in Maribor for new health stations. Let me finish. The current amendment of the Pharmacy Act allows: for the first time, the continued smooth operation of the Ljubljana LL Grossist and the Maribor Pharmaceutical, the second time, the maintenance of competition on the market and the third time, the lower prices of medicines. Funding from wholesale activities will, however, continue to remain with the municipalities which can be allocated to the development of public health activities. It is not about supporting the economic activity of municipalities in the LMŠ, as the State Secretary has told us at the meetings. The aim we are pursuing is to strengthen the public service delivery, which is in the immediate interest of protecting the health of our citizens. Why, then, would he abolish the grosses owned by public pharmacies or in the case of the local community in Maribor and leave the market to foreign companies? Why would we do that in these epidemiological times? In fact, this is also advocated by the Chamber of Pharmacy, which, when it breaks the law, also destroys competition. As far as we are concerned, this is very unacceptable because the Pharmacy Chamber is the one that is currently the biggest threat to pharmacy activities. And that's not right. We will therefore vote in the LMŠ against privatisation and public interest and for lower prices of medicines. That is why we will support the law in LMŠ because we do not want to take duopol medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! We have supported the law in previous reading by the Social Democrats and will also support it in this reading. I basically agree with that first part of the statement on capital takeover. But overcoming capital is an attempt to break this law. This is a good 1.4 billion and, of course, these are big money and great interests, and I hope that the example of this law will be taken seriously not only in the study of political science at the FDV, but also elsewhere. It is a simple question whether there is some surplus that is invested in the development of the pharmacy business network, or whether this surplus is a profit that goes to foreign owners in one case and, in the other case, to hidden domestic owners who, of course, have lobbyed through the State Council. From this government, we are accustomed to some pejorativeism towards the National Assembly, but what Mrs Forta, State Secretary, did at the meeting of her mother's working body, was a bit too much, which we experienced in this mandate, that somehow what is also our constitutional duty, representing the public interest, is referred to as lobbying. And to continue to show that it is something that, after all, was financed in fact by five generations of Mariborčank and Mariborčany and the surrounding municipalities, you are portraying as some ugly, terrible evil capitalist who will be – what? – The price of medicines for us will be higher, we will be pharmacists if I use Vision's vocabulary, break eggs, and they will no longer be autonomous. Well, please, my one-year-old doesn't buy that. I mean, so many fools to be making out of Parliament - no government should be allowed to do that. none of the executive branch should be allowed to do so. But here is also the question of professional deontologies, about ethics and morality, if you want some professions, and here I sold out just too many people with a finished pharmaceutical fax to capital. As I have already said, the Social Democrats will once again vote in favour of this law and also in favour of the existence between the four actors of those two, who are publicly owned and also acting in the public interest. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Act on Pharmacy, as read in the fourth reading, is quite different from its original amendment, which started the parliamentary procedure. The original contained two measures, one bad and one good. We removed the bad one from the law, and it was specifically about redefining the gravity areas of pharmacies; it is simply said how many pharmacies in this country we can have. With that change in force, pharmacies would be under increased competitive pressure that would lead to oversales of medicines only so that the clean economy of pharmacies could keep them above water. Of course we don't want that. Overuse of medicines is not a measure that will benefit people, but is a measure that can benefit only and only profits to the detriment of human health. But there is something else left in the law, a measure that we have been defending in Levica for years, we welcome it, we support it, and we will support it today in the fourth reading of this Act on Pharmacy. This is that two bigogers in public ownership, namely, Maribor and Ljubljana, are also kept public property. In particular, in one of the previous amendments to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, the prohibition of so-called vertical links has been enacted. The point is that some individual pharmacy where people buy drugs is not owned by the velodrogerist who supplied these medicines. If we leave this area to deregulation and market organisation, we can see the results abroad. The ownership linkage between velodrogeria and pharmacies completely ignores the public interest that is supposed to lead the supply of medicines and resubstantiate this supply of medicines to the primarily profitable motive. And again, we come up with the result that pharmacies and pharmacists in them have to deal mainly with how many medicines they sell to people, that they will sell them as much as possible, so that the profits will be as high as possible, instead of putting their expertise and health care on top of them for citizens and citizens. This ban on vertical ownership ties has therefore been enacted in the past; we supported it in Levica, even more. We were just the ones who tabled the amendment to legal amendments that ownership was prohibited in both directions, so not only that the wholesaleria should not own its pharmacy for retail sale, but also that the pharmacy for retail sales cannot have its own wholesaler. I say just so, because, of course, there is a reasonable exception, which is now, today, in the fourth reading, we put to the vote the ownership link, insofar as they are both a bigogrogerist and an individual pharmacy owned by the public. Companies, no matter what legal form they take, which are publicly owned, must, by logic, already pursue the public benefit. If we do not allow such exceptions in law, this would mean reselling, that is, privatisation, these two other bigogerists, which we have in public ownership, is the Ljubljana-based LL Grossist and the Maribor velodrogerist. Moreover, I hope that this intervention in the Pharmacy Act, which will allow for the public existence of these two bigoggerists, is the first step in the direction where wholesale drug sales at national level begin to be excluded from the scope of these and those private corporations. At national level, I think that we should organise a public agency, at national level, which would directly purchase medical materials, supplies and so on and bypass all these intermediaries, to prevent corruption, as we have now done in healthcare supplies, and within ourselves also organise wholesale medical supplies in a non-profit manner with the aim and exclusive aim of meeting the health needs of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be moved by Andrej Černigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u134	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, we stress that it is of utmost importance that all citizens have adequate access to medical care, regardless of whether the medicines are provided by a concessionary or a public pharmacy institution, so the distinctions in favour of public institutions are unfounded. When we discuss pharmacy activities in Slovenia, we think that public institutions should take care of the pharmacy care of the population in particular in areas where concessionaires are not particularly interested in rural areas. Greater choice and lower prices of medicines are achieved by more competition, not by monopolising the market in favour of public institutions, and it is therefore important that the establishment of pharmacies is released, but not at the expense of lower expertise. Today we are talking about a completely amended amendment to the Law on Pharmacy, since all the articles except one, six were deleted during the adoption process in the National Assembly. This, however, legitimizes the existing preliminary situation which should end this year. Two public pharmacies can be owned by a wholesaler, while all other pharmacies are not allowed to do so. It is therefore legal that the public institution of Lekarna Ljubljana can keep LL Grossista and that the Municipality of Maribor retains the Farmadent. That would probably be the original and only purpose of the law. Clearly, however, it was not intended for smaller congregations to receive pharmacy that they had been waiting for for years. We are convinced that there is a solution for both wholesalers to be preserved, but this does not fall within the law governing pharmacy activity. Pharmacy is part of a health activity carried out as a public service. The sale of drugs is an economic activity and should be regulated as such. This proposed legislative amendment – an economic issue whose implementation interferes with the drug supply system. The basic requirements for a legal person who carries out sales of medicinal products on a wholesale basis are laid down by the Medicinal Products Act. The so-called vertical integration is allowed in some countries of the European Union and some systems do not allow it, for example Germany, which also has a limit on how much an individual may own a pharmacy unit. But where this is permitted, connections are always allowed, always in both directions. So if a pharmacy can own a bigotry, they can own a pharmacy. As has been explained several times, we are not at all opposed to maintaining both tradesmen, only legal form, ownership, must be properly regulated. However, if the law is adopted, this poses a great risk to the rule of law and pharmacy as such, as inequality will be established between some on the market. As a result of this solution, a constitutional assessment of the Pharmacy Act has already been announced. The Pharmacy Act, which was adopted in 2017, was in line with the European Commission and imposed, inter alia, the regulation of the legal status of LL Grossista and Farmadent. However, for example, there is still an open area for the co-founding of Lekarna Ljubljana. Not only in the promised municipalities, as the law allows, but also the wider Lekarna Ljubljana has its units. According to the applicable Act on Pharmacy Activities and the Court Decision, the Municipality of Ljubljana and all municipalities where Lekarna Ljubljana has its units should have a signed act on co-establishment. Since this is not the case, many of the units of Lekarna Ljubljana by other municipalities are in conflict with the law. Lekarna Ljubljana is therefore operating in contravention of the rule of law and the mayors of the surrounding municipalities are losing an important source of income for their municipal budgets. Today, money flows mainly to Ljubljana, but if we followed the provisions of the law, all other municipalities where Lekarna Ljubljana has its own pharmacy would be entitled to these funds. In the interest of Lekarna Ljubljana, the mayor and his town councillors there is no reason to share the profits with all municipalities where this profit is also generated in pharmacies. Members of New Slovenia will not be supported by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Once again a very nice greeting to everyone! You know, in these presentations, people's views are almost a little bit drawn to the point where they're being politicized, and they shouldn't, especially because some of them are just misleading, but secondly. Your Honor! After a number of discussions and efforts by key stakeholders working in the field of pharmaceuticals, that the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities would not be adopted, we will re-decision at the November meeting of the National Assembly, although it has already been confirmed by the majority of the votes of Members and Members in October. The message was clear one month ago, and we are still not giving up on it today. We are in the Group of the Modern Centre Party for the public pharmacy system, for the independence of the pharmacists, which we so read about, and for the development of the pharmacy business itself. We are convinced that the profits of our own suppliers set up by local communities or public pharmacies cannot be left to private and foreign multinationals. As a result of the above-mentioned Members and Members of the SMC, we have tabled a proposal for amendments to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which really included the original 11 articles, but the original proposal has not been favoured either by the coalition partner or by the Ministry of Health or not by the so-called professional public. We'll be able to talk about it. The SMC’s assessment was that, in view of the disagreement between the Chamber of Pharmacy and other stakeholders, which, in the absence of misleading arguments, objected to the proposal for amendments, most of the proposed content was withdrawn from the proposed law and remained only an article defining the so-called vertical. This allows public pharmacies to establish their own suppliers, I stress once again, allows the establishment of their own suppliers 24 public pharmacies to supply medicines and painkillers. Even through the legislative procedure, we have found that it is possible in this House to reach the widest degree of consensus only in the original Article 6 of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities or in the above mentioned abolition of the prohibition of vertical links. We've agreed to a new situation. Our decision was based on the knowledge that the amendment of the legislation is necessary, however, for at least to remain in operation by two of its own suppliers, namely the Maribor Pharmaceutical and the Ljubljana Grossist. If we reaffirm today's October amendment to the Pharmacy Act, at least minimal competition between domestic and foreign drug suppliers will be maintained on the Slovenian supply market. Although the latter are Slovenian legal persons, but in foreign ownership, and what is even more insidious, it is that one of these two is practically owned by hidden owners. Therefore, it is important that we know who the profits are made by drug suppliers in the Slovenian pharmacy area. The profits of their own drug suppliers would remain at the disposal of the public pharmacy for its further development, for the education of their pharmacists, as well as for the development of the pharmacy structure itself, even if they were still owned on 1 January 2022. We cannot afford to have the entire Slovenian market dependent solely on foreign suppliers or companies with hidden owners for the provision of medicines and pain relief devices. We are against foreign capital taking over the public interest. The law that we are re-deciding today is therefore simply abolishing the prohibition of the establishment of our own suppliers by public pharmacies and self-government local communities. With the law under consideration, we want to achieve the goal of ensuring the continued and stable supply of medicines to be available to all people in Slovenia in the future and that profits remain in Slovenia. Therefore, we believe that the Act on Pharmacy is appropriate and we will support it again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u138	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Members, for the third time, we have been considering a proposal for amendments to the Law on Pharmacy, and this time we have before us a vote on the lobbyist veto voted by the Council of State in this law. After we have proposed an amendment to the SAB party, which we are in existence with, it is said from the law now in the procedure that virtually all the other articles have been deleted, the main problem has been very clear and what the meaning of this law is. It is the abolition of the prohibition of vertical connections, which means in a simple language that public pharmacies must not have their own suppliers and wholesalers to supply medicinal products. Such a prohibition of vertical connections is therefore in force at the moment. For public pharmacies, the possibility of setting up house wholesalers or wholesale companies for the supply of medicinal products is therefore excluded. In practice, this would mean that two major wholesalers, one in Maribor and one in Ljubljana, should be forced to sell both wholesalers by the end of the year in order to enforce this law. A number of opinions have also been drawn up during this legislative process, we have had emotional and heated discussions and many comments. Vertical and horizontal connections, gravitational areas and pharmacy points, the independence of pharmacists and so on are many inconsistent and rather complex concepts which people, including Members, find difficult to understand. That's why it's good, and I think it's great that we've decided to bring the matter to whether vertical connections are allowed or not. It is whether we are here, in this house, thinking that we must offer our citizens more competitiveness on the market of medicines and other medical devices, as well as other products sold in pharmacies, or whether we want this money to remain in the local community, that is to say it does not go in the private pocket, and whether we want to keep the country through local communities at least some influence on the supply of medicines and other products. The consensus thus reached to preserve vertical connections is in the interest of competition on the market in medicinal products, in the interest of citizens and in the interest of the state supply of medicines. In the SAB, we are convinced that Members of the National Assembly must pursue in particular the common national interest, the interest of public good and the conflict of interest of our country, local communities, budgetary money. We understand some of the legitimate interests of the economy, which, of course, wants more money and more profits, but the vertical links are not – and this has otherwise been claimed in the past – prohibited. The arrangements are different in Europe and there is no reason for them to be more purer than the worst cleaner and be banned from us. On the contrary, if approved today, the law may allow such arrangements to be adopted by another congregation or congregation. To conclude, the SAB will, of course, reaffirm the law and vote against the veto. Otherwise, we agree that the field of pharmacy activities needs to be systematically and comprehensively regulated and that the time will come, and now it is essential that we react in this urgent matter by acting in a way that protects public interest against a private monopoly or duopol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of the veto of the State Council, he is returning today to the Parliamentary branch of the Law on Pharmacy. During the legislative process, the text has been reduced to abolishing the prohibition of so-called vertical links, i.e. the establishment of its own suppliers by public pharmacies. In the Desus Group, we have already advocated the interruption of vertical connections in the past, because we believe that the institution and the operator of the pharmacy activity must be completely independent in the performance of their work. This is the only way in which we can assess the professional independence of pharmacists in public pharmacies whose basic guidance must be individual health care and public health protection. By prohibiting vertical connections, our assessment minimizes the economic impact of manufacturers and wholesalers on the performance of pharmacy activities. Because medicines are not generally marketable goods, protection of public interest in this area is essential. The pharmacy activity is part of a health activity in Slovenia today and is carried out as a public service. This is a particular type of activity which is not intended to generate profits but to provide quality and effective supply of medicines and other products to support treatment and maintain health. It is also an independent and professional advice on the safe, correct and effective use of medicines, both for patients and for healthcare professionals. Because medicines are not generally marketable goods, protection of public interest in this area is essential. On the basis of the arguments presented, we will also vote against the bill in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the proposal in re-decision on the amendment of the Pharmaceutical Act despite the veto of the State Council. By eliminating the prohibition of vertical links between public drug suppliers and local communities, we want to protect the public interest and development of the health network. We also support the novelty in order to maintain healthy competition between suppliers of medicinal products and products offered by pharmacies. The drug wholesaler, Farmadent and LL Grossist, who are owned by the Municipality of Maribor and the Public Institute of the Ljubljana Pharmacy, will have to sell or shut down in the event of the failure to accept this novel, even within six weeks. This will leave the supply market for medicines and the entire supply of public pharmacies and those owned by concessionaires, these hospitals, only to the two largest wholesalers, who are privately and foreign-owned. This isn't just about a dangerous duopol two drug dealers. Worse still, we are threatened by the completely unnecessary collapse of the Farmadent and LL Grossist when more than a hundred employees in Maribor and perhaps in Ljubljana lose their jobs. We are convinced by the unconnected Members that it is important for Slovenia that, above all, public pharmacies and hospitals are not entirely dependent on duopol companies in private and foreign multinationals, but that we also have domestic suppliers in public ownership that are a guarantee against cartel arrangements. In addition, in the event of the termination or sale of both public wholesalers, their profits would belong to private and foreign multinationals. But if we keep them, their profits will go into the development of pharmacy activities and primary health care in the municipalities. Two of the biggest drug dealers in our country are already in control of over 70 percent of the drug market. Last year Salus, for example, generated EUR 312 million in revenue and 5,6 million in profits, while Chemofarmation generated 380 million in revenue and almost 7 million in profits. The largest individual owners of Salus are Slovenian, while the Chemofarmation is owned by the foreign multinational McKersson. When the earnings of the public wholesalers are made in municipal budgets, the profits that remain in private wholesalers instead of nominating the local community, rich only private owners and multi-corporations and so-called Fat Cats – Fat Cats – modern executive directors serving unreasonablely high wages and bonuses. In case you don't mind. The estimated value of Brian Tyler, the CEO of McKarsson USA, is at least $30 million – data are from this month. He owns more than $9 million of corporate shares and has sold more than 6 million over the past 11 years, with an annual salary of $15 million. Let's give it to him! But to the Members and Members who oppose the novels and to the councils who have voted this unreasonable veto, we ask a rhetorical question: What is it with you to slaughter the geese that bear our golden eggs and serve the geese's liver humbly to the renegade foreigners? We are also amazed at the Council of State at the fact that it has turned its back on public interest and local communities, although it has 22 representatives of local interests, and that is half of the members of the Council. Without their help, this veto would never be here. It appears that state councilors instead of the interests of the municipalities of Maribor and Ljubljana preferred to listen to the interests of capital. It is likely that the comment of this shameless rejection is unnecessary, so in the Group of Unbound Members, we will support the amendment of the law without harboring any resentment over the fact that the veto has taken place. If there was a mixture of disgust between the lines over the movement that Robin Hood was also fighting, that is a sign of your overwhelming sense. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u144	All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Slovenian National Party, vertical connections to pharmacy activities are not the most favoured. Vertical links are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and also to the European legal order. Whatever we're turning, there's capital in the front here, not an individual. The objective of protecting patients' health and public health, as well as the task of pharmacies, is to limit this kind of activity. The task performed by the pharmacist is not limited to the sale of medicinal products. In the issue of pharmaceuticals, other services such as medical prescription checks, preparation of pharmaceuticals or the provision of information and advice to ensure the correct use of medicinal products are also provided, so a thorough mission by the legislator must be made to ensure the conditions for professional and objective pharmaceutical advice. The quality of medicinal products is closely linked to the independence that the pharmacist must demonstrate in the performance of the profession. For medicines not authorised with a prescription, the patient can rely only on information received from the pharmacist. The current practice is that many pharmacists offer certain medicines, sometimes also their own production, which are not always of the greatest benefit to the user. How much medicine is actually offered to patients, to their health, is also a question that is not mentioned out loud. Pharmacies should also provide health products regardless of who the manufacturer is. As the already mentioned amendment, which we are re-deciding today, we believe is so – both for the people and it is written only for the interests of the Public Institute of Lekarna Ljubljana and Pharmacy Maribor. It would be interesting to see what is happening in other pharmacies, such as Dolenjska Pharmacy, Gorenjska Pharmacy, and others. Today we decide only on Lekarna Ljubljana and Maribor and the others when you finish the item yourself. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, this law will be decided again today in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 27th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 1 p.m. and 50 minutes. In half an hour. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 13.21 and resumed at 13.51)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u146	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we go to the vote, I inform you that Mr Miran Györek, Member of the National Assembly, died during the 2008-2011 term. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] Praise him. The National Assembly shall vote in accordance with the following order: 4, 2, 3, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 29 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2022 to 2024. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. The word is from a colleague of Luke Moon, you have the floor. On behalf of the House of Representatives. Explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much and very much! We will vote in Levica against both budget decrees for 2022 and 2023. Fiscal policy, the budgetary policy of this government is flawed. Although we are in a terrible situation with a covid crisis, Slovenia has, in a public financial sense, had a nice opportunity to do something over the last two years, and it will also have a nice opportunity in the next two to move something forward. This time, unlike the previous crisis, the European Union has decided to help countries and the result is that countries, including Slovenia, have favourable resources, return, non-refundable and credit. If we had to be in debt at 5% and higher interest rates in 2012 and 2013, this time the weighted interest rate in the last two years was 0.18%, and inflation will be around 3% this year. So we owe each other less than inflation. In this sense, this is a very nice opportunity for investment. For investments in apartments, we know that 10,000 in Slovenia are missing, for investments in the modernisation of the health system, for investments in the green break-up, but we have not seen any of these in the last two years. What we have seen is hundreds of millions of lost funds. If I recall, 900 million were just public sector allowances. The most engaged surgeon has paid up to 70,000 euros out of it in one year. A large part of the funds ended up in savings, the savings of Slovenian households increased by up to EUR 2 billion in this crisis year, meaning that the money was received mainly by larger households, and some by companies that paid millions of euros in state subsidies. Remember Safila and Adient simply left behind hundreds of jobs and left the country because the government did not condition these funds. We will wait for the first serious investments until 2022, when the funds for railways and roads are increasing, but that is all. Next year too will be lost in this regard. Nothing will be done in a green breakthrough, very little will be done in modernising health care, but the defence budget, which will be up to 900 million euros by 2023, will go wild. Furthermore, the budget decree for 2023 has been set up so that the government, whatever it is then, will have to reduce spending by EUR 800 million in one year, which also reminds the Fiscal Council that it is unrealistic and has not been defined anywhere by measures. So, the budget for 2022 is pre-approved, the budget for 2023 is unrealistically austerity, and we will vote against both.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 41. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda – the proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. We are moving on to a decision on the General Part of the proposal for amending the budget. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dear coalition, in 2019 you received the surplus budget and the country in charge of 28.5 billion. Today in Slovenia we record the highest public debt, at any time, and our public finances or Slovenia is the largest public financial patient in Europe. This is demonstrated through a structural deficit. In three years you have managed to generate 10 billion losses – 10 billion! – and only half, 5 billion, is at the expense of solving problems due to the co-existence of the crisis and the budget should be the story of the future. Why? Because everything you accept today has consequences for the future, and you, as if it were not the future. It's only important today and now and to waste everything that it can spend. You leave all the hard work that awaits the country to the next governments. You have written in your documents that Slovenia needs a pension reform in order to extend working time, that it needs a health reform, that it needs a labour market – these are your words – and not least, Minister, in this Chamber you have announced a tax on real estate, once in the future. All of these are things you don't even handle with a stick, but you put them on the burden of those who will lead this country after you. Much more public financial responsibility should be required when adopting the budget for 2022 and 2023 and, of course, we will not support each other in the party to the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We're voting. We are voting on the general part of the draft amending budget. [[advertising from the hall]] We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 43. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for amending the budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 11. 2021. We are moving to budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance. First, we are moving to the sub-programme for Local Infrastructure Development. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also moving to the current budget reserve sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, LMŠ, Levica, SAB – SD groups – I apologize – LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 43. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1811 – Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the left-wing groups, LMŠ, unrelated Members and SD to the development cooperation and international assistance sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Comrade Bostian Korazzi.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u151	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Increasing funds for international development cooperation is a prerequisite for dealing with the consequences of the epidemic in partner countries, in accordance with the Resolution on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed increase in resources will enable enhanced activities in providing official development assistance, so-called R & D, through programmes and projects carried out by civil society organisations in the partner countries in particular in sub-Saharan Africa. As a result of the covid-19 epidemic, poverty has increased dramatically at global level. According to the World Bank, the number of people living in extreme poverty with income below US$ 1.9 per day increased by as much as 97 million in 2020. At the time of the covid-19 epidemic, when the countries of the global south are even more exposed to the effects of inequality and climate change, forced migration and the rise in hunger, the Republic of Slovenia should urgently increase funding for the implementation of programmes and projects in the countries of the global south. By increasing the funds, the Republic of Slovenia would contribute to the fulfilment of the commitment to allocate 0.33 per cent of gross national income to ODA by 2030 and to the commitment to implement development cooperation in accordance with internationally accepted principles of development efficiency, thus contributing to reducing global poverty and inequality. By raising funds for ODA and increasing the presence in the partner countries of the global south, it would thus contribute to mitigating the negative social and economic consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. Therefore, in Levica we propose that 2 million funds from the Fund for the Epidemic Fund be diverted or actually transferred to the International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid item. Because if we have committed ourselves to some global commitments that are necessary in growing poverty at global level, it is also right to meet these commitments fairly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a budget user in 1912 – the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and to the Subprogramme Preparedness of the System for Protection, Rescue and Assistance. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 1914 – General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We decide on the amendment of the members of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups to the sub-programme Infrastructure and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Marko Bandelli Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you, President. Now would be a chance to practically finally get the first professional fire helicopter in Slovenia. The consensus was virtually all opposition parties, and there was a lot of them, but since it's such an agreement not to let go of the matter again, it probably won't work. The explanation, which was also given by the Slovenian Army, says that they must stick to their programme, which was confirmed here. Given the fact that three helicopters are purchased, exactly three of them could be used for firefighting purposes. Here I think it would be good to confirm this thing, but I see that it is an objection, but if not now, we have proposed it a second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme Enterprise and Innovative Environment and Promotion. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Promoting technological development and the economy. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme. Marko Bandelli, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you, President. Here I must say that it is almost incomprehensible how the minister guaranteed so many millions for the reconstruction of Maestos, this is the hotel that is in Lipica, and in the end he left it practically without a slipper. In fact, it's like building a new basketball court and finally cutting the tapes of how we made a new playground, but it's no floors and no baskets. It's the same thing. It's not going here. The Government's explanation, which has been sent, is even more absurd. At the planned 7 million, they are virtually earmarked for Kobilna Lipica, but this is for a cobalt that can't go for other people than for a cobalt shop, by chance 2 million for investment works that are needed in the cobile sector, not in the hotel. But here it is absolutely necessary to close this hotel, otherwise it is without regard to bragging and cutting tapes, as I repeat, if the matter is not closed. This would necessarily be necessary for that end, at least in the Lipice area as such – we know for ourselves how important the location of our Slovenian heritage is – and that, at least after 30 years, this hotel will end. I hope there was at least a little bit of listening. Thank you. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2430 – Ministry of Infrastructure. First, we move to the renewable energy subroutine. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this subroutine. Port of the Month of Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you very much and very much! We propose that an additional 15 million will be earmarked for the Renewable Energy Programme and taken from the items Equipment of the Slovenian Army. €15 million is the price of some two or three armoured men, and this money would cover the roofs of public buildings with solar cells. In fact, the potential of solar energy in Slovenia is very untapped. We are at the rap of Europe after the exploitation, while the analysis by the Institute of Josef Štefan of the potential of solar power plants on the roofs of buildings in Slovenia by 2050 shows that the estimated technical potential for building solar power plants on roofs in Slovenia is almost twice the current energy production in Slovenia. As I said at the outset, it would be a time to start working seriously on the green transition; solar energy is the energy of the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u158	We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 46. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Development of the highway and road network. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 3. Explanation of the vote by Jani Prednik, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u159	President, thank you. Just for a little while. It is two circulars where all documentation by the Municipality of Ravne in Koroškem is already ready and is only about providing state money of EUR 1.4 million, and as soon as this money is provided, construction or construction of these two circles can begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 3. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the Sub-programme for Investment Maintenance and Construction of Roads. Marko Bandelli, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u161	President, thank you. Just two words about it. This is one road that is a disgrace from the road, a state road that goes from Gorjansky to the border crossing. If we went just across the border and looked at the Italian side, what kind of road is their country road, from the Italian side, and we looked at the road on our side. And daily 300 bikers, tourists from Trieste who come to us – thank God that we have this opportunity for tourists to come up – but this road, section is really dangerous. Otherwise, I see that the project envisages the production of project documentation, the purchase of land this year by the Ministry. So at least that's the first step that this is supposed to go in the right direction. Of course, the guaranteed funds would give us so much momentum, even only the hope of a 100 per cent realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 88 were present, with 34 votes against 44. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2550 – Ministry of Environment and Space. First, we are moving to the Mine Sub-programme and the rehabilitation of mining damage. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 85, 33 votes against 41. (For the vote was 33.)(against 41.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to subroutine water management. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to this sub-programme. Matjaž Germany has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Municipality of Kanal ob Soča is not only known after the Emerald Soča or after the bridge or Kogo Days, but in the last period mainly from the environmental aspect of asbestos, increased ambition after co-incineration. What has been a pressing problem in recent months is the ability to have access to drinking water. One of the two amendments that will solve this problem in the congregation was filed with opposition parties. It is an area in a hilly area where the municipality has already obtained all the building permits. It lacks a financial basis to address the problem of 500 people living in remote and demographically threatened areas. We are talking about the possibility of access to drinking water, which is also listed as one of the constitutional rights. Therefore, we propose to the National Assembly an amendment that would actually trigger the construction of the already planned water supply and thereby save water supply in a very remote area of this municipality. So, colleagues, colleagues, we ask for your support for the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, it is important that water supply is available to all, regardless of where we are in the country, even to those in remote parts of different congregations. And since we have two amendments before us that help or come against the people and people of the municipality of Kanal ob Sochi or the village of Anhovo, it is reasonable to point out that this is not the amendment that may have raised the most dust or received the most attention from the public. It is important, of course, to connect remote settlements to the water supply. This water supply in the congregation or in Anhovem has another problem, such as a deeper systemic problem. It is actually managed by Salonit Anhovo. So, Anhovo deserves, residents and residents, who have been drinking waterless for many years, to be connected to a new water source. But the problem that solves it, I warn you once again, the next amendment. In the Levica Group, we will support this and help these people and residents of Anhove, who live far away and do not have any drinking water supply in this way, by connecting to the water supply. Of course, we will also support another, which is followed by, say, even by Anho's and a host of environmental, nature-protection organisations and because, at the final stage, drinking water supply or access to drinking water is a constitutional category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Reich on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u167	That's it. At the initiative of the SAB Group, an urgent meeting of the Committee was convened in the National Assembly on the supply and safety of drinking water for the inhabitants of Anhovem. We need to know that residents in Anhove are supplied with drinking water through an industrial source. Well, it's a swollen state, and it's also right to get an independent clean drinking water source. We must be aware that the right to drinking water in the Constitution is a written legal initiative of our party and there are two related amendments with the same objective content before us and we will both support the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u169	No, President, on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u170	On my own. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Yeah. Mr Krivec, on behalf of the Group of Members, first of all, has the advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. We will not support this amendment in the parliamentary group, but we will support the next one, which actually saves the supply of drinking water from a new source. This amendment essentially provides money for the restoration of the existing water source and the connections of some neighbouring settlements, which I do not think is necessary from this point of view, as you have warned that Anho’s new water source is in use, which allows for the next amendment to be made to the water supply supply by the water source Mrzlek. To avoid anything, however, I would like to point out that in Anhove’s last 50 years they have been drinking water from this water source and there has been nothing wrong with it, so that the matter has recently been transferred to some political level. However, I would also like to point out that in the National Assembly we cannot be subjected to exactly the pressures that come from some initiatives, because water supply is in the original competence of the local communities and in the event that we are overreacting too much by the National Assembly to these areas, in this case we do not need local communities or we need to transfer their original competences. Nevertheless, I will also support this second amendment from this point of view, because in the past there was obviously no ability of previous governments or coalitions to establish this regime to regulate this water supply in the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Then in his own name Branko Simonović.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much, President. Despite the fact that water supply belongs to the jurisdiction of the local community, come yourself from the Slovenian Republic of Istria, where we have been dealing with some water source to provide drinking water for all the population since 1967, I will also support both amendments because, according to the information I have, also the Municipality of Kanal has already leased credit, an additional two million to provide drinking water for these residents; what also provides for the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members present, 45 votes against 42. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Wastewater Management. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to this sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u175	President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister, everyone, thank you for your word and for your attention! We have contacted the local community and also checked the situation on the ground. We have spoken to our members, to the councillors of the municipality, to the mayor as well, and we have decided to support this solution or this amendment; in particular because, despite different views, it is mainly possible to implement in practice within this timeframe, which this and the future budget allows, it is possible to take a step forward. We have heard that this solution is not systematic to interfere with the autonomy of the municipalities as such, to open up a new window of opportunity here or, if we want, missed opportunities for some other local communities, but we estimate that the situation of Anhova is acute, so we will support this amendment in the SMC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukić has the floor on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, in Levica, we will unitedly support this amendment. We know what's going on in Anhove. Anhovo, as far as the environment is concerned, is one of the most burdened and degraded environments; not only because of asbestos, but also because of co-incineration, unfortunately drinking water is also a problem. For the current water supply, which is owned by the private corporation Salonit Anhovo, and clearly, the water supply, if we want everything under control, must be publicly owned. The pipeline, as it is said, is currently running through an industrial complex, which is a major polluter of the environment, and therefore it is not surprising that we are witnessing many accidents. Some of them have already happened in the past year, this summer again, when industrial water mixed with potable water. And you can imagine that people in Anhove who are sick because of asbestos, who are sick because of co-incineration, because there is a large, excessive number of very rare cancers, which are hundreds of times larger than elsewhere in Slovenia, need pure drinking water. And I am very pleased to hear that, as it seems, even the single support of this amendment, which is the only right one. I do not think there should be one Member or one Member here who would not support this amendment. As we say, of course we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The word is given by Joseph Horvat on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On the Committee on Finance or before the Committee on Finance, we have dealt with the reasons for these amendments, which are intended to provide drinking water for our citizens and citizens. We have found that the applicants have presented these amendments quite confusedly and we have found that the previous amendment will probably not be implemented in 2022, the money will remain, and we have decided that we will support this amendment, which is in fact the most likely to be realised for the 500 000 Euros. Yes, I agree that water supply is the responsibility of local communities. We're making an exception this time. Interestingly, civil initiatives have also taken place. I'm sorry about Goričko; she never had and Goričko still doesn't have any drinking water today. This government has provided Goriček with 22 million cohesion funds, as well as an additional 6 million, and for drinking water, we have provided some 380 million Euros of cohesion funds, a large majority at the time of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u180	Thank you very much. More? Mr Andreja Zabret on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. I've raised my hand at least three times. This amendment, which we are talking about, because we have already heard it from a colleague, but this is the amendment that provides a new source for the people of Anhova and will provide a link to the water system of Mrzlek. So it is to ensure that these people are supplied with the drinking water that is needed for a new, independent source of drinking water and that a connection to the water system is ensured, as I have already mentioned. Water costs are estimated at €200,000, which means €500,000 in 2022 and €700,000 in 2023 and are feasible over a period of two years. That is how we need support for the amendment for 2022 as well as 2023. Currently, a thousand 100 people are being used for water supply, owned by Salonit Anhovo, which draws water from the Soča River, and the asbestos pipeline is being transported across the industrial area. Water from Soča is the only major water source nearby. The quality of raw water from Soča is not comparable to that of groundwater drinking water, and it is also problematic because of the mercury content, as the Soča River carries 150 tonnes of mercury annually. We therefore hope in the LMŠ that you will also be in the coalition, as we have already heard, that you agree that in the case of record budgets we must also find the means to provide people with drinking water, as it is also a civilisation standard that people drink pure drinking water in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Get Siter on his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u183	Yes, thank you very much. This consensus, which clearly shows that this thing will be confirmed, is impressive. Above all, the solution on the tray is important for two reasons. First of all, the water from Soča, which is the source in the existing regulation, is not okay, because in this part of the river is more exposed to pollution due to transport, spillage and so on. On the other hand, the main problem here is that, in fact, the public water supply service is managed by a private company. By means of the solution proposed by this amendment, we bind our hands here to the private company and place public goods in public hands or in the hands of local communities and end conditionalities, so to speak, on the involvement of the company with drinking water and on disputed environmental practices in relation to the local community. The solution is therefore an independent source, as proposed by this amendment, not the ultimate solution to all environmental problems, but not the number of environmental problems people and people experience every day, but this is very good news, which I will support myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Daniel Krivec, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u185	Thanks again for saying that. I'll support this amendment, I've already announced before, despite some misunderstandings. However, I would like to say that this amendment saves to some extent, to avoid what is now deceiving, but I would still like to explain how the matter is actually standing on the ground. In the case of the water source, which now exists for Anhovo and for this area, the soil of Soča is drained and you will not believe, even in Mrzlek the groundwater of Soča, and you will not believe, Soča runs from Anhove to Frostlek and not vice versa. So everything you're saying is very thoughtful, and it doesn't affect anything. But it is true that Frost is a more modern pump and that, to some extent, what you are warning is safer. However, in the case of the present water supply for Anhovo and those surrounding areas from this source, over 50, 60 years the matter has been going on in some way normal and it is not true that this water supply in Kanal is in the hands of private people, but it is in the hands of the Commune administered by the congregation. So let us not get rid of the overriding matter, because the water has its legitimacy and flows from the Kanala area to the Frostlake area. And in this case everything you point out will still be a problem and it will be necessary, I would say, to monitor very carefully also the water source of Frost from these points of view that you point out. Just so you know what we're talking about, but not very, very much in mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u186	Anyone else? Yeah. Matjaž Han in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u187	Just for a little while. Of course, I will support this amendment, just as I supported the previous one, where the congregation also has the building permit. We are now talking only about money, we are not yet talking about solutions, and here I agree with Mr Krivec. Of course, it will help Kanal or the congregation to find a solution to the drinking water they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukich in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u189	I'll explain it one more time. Of course, I will support this, but once again, preventing industrial waste water from mixing with drinking water is why this amendment needs to be supported today. In this way, we will provide much better conditions, says via the public waterworks of Mrzlek, for drinking water especially for people who are very sick, very in distress due to many other environmental impacts. Once again, there have been some accidents in the past years and this summer, specifically when industrial waste water mixed with this water flowing through Salonit Anhovo, this drained water. And therefore, this is what is the main reason, so that, despite some concerns, this solution provides a much better solution and a future for all who live there. I'll back you up, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 2. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. First, we are moving to the sub-programme Training and Education. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this subroutine. Natasa Sukič, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u191	Thank you very much. As was the case with the previous amendment, and with many others, look, the life and real needs of people are those that should guide when planning a budget, and not only the influences of the arms lobby, are said to be the military, the capital lobby, when it comes to tax breaks that drill budget holes, not only strengthening the repressive apparatus, which is what is happening now, but the small living pressures of people, the particular life pressures, the mosaic of these pressures. This has to be a guide. For example, between households with dependent children, the worst situation in single-parent households with at least one dependent child, where, say, the risk of poverty in 2020, you will not believe what is 21.8%. Thus, every fifth single - parent household lives below the threshold of poverty. Especially vulnerable are those families where this parent, who is entrusted with the care of his children, is therefore without his own income to support himself and that child. Therefore, in Levica, we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure a new Law on the Public Grant, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund, because we want to transfer certain decision-making procedures to the Fund directly from the courts, it is necessary to strengthen this Fund financially and human resources. This can be done in such a way that while the budget for the operation of the Fund will decrease in the coming years, as it seems, from €3.1 million in 2022 to €2.66 million in 2023, there will be a huge increase, as it is said, in addition to the military, in the second repressive apparatus of the country, which is the police. Police funds have been steadily increasing since 2015, especially since 2018, although the number of crimes has declined during the same period. So Janša’s government is still further enhancing the purchase of equipment intended for mass control and police violence. We therefore propose that 500 000 Euros be transferred from this sub-programme for police, public order and general security to the sub-programme of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. And of course we will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a sub-programme to promote the development of NGOs and civil and social dialogue. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. Lidija Dijak Mirnik, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. The reduction of funds to NGOs and to all NGOs in almost all policies is, in fact, unacceptable and also shows the attitude of the current government towards them. We all know how many NGOs we have in Slovenia. We also know what they're doing. They do what the state should do a lot of times. In fact, it is totally unacceptable for the Government to take revenge on them in a way that reduces their resources. We will, of course, support this amendment in the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the subroutine of Social Security. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this sub-programme under number 1. Miha Kordish, explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, chairman. At the time of preparing the current budget for the following year and for the following year, the government of Janez Janša has apparently been throwing cubes at some items and thus we have received an item for monetary social assistance, which is lower by 32 million euros next year and another year for a good 20 million euros later. According to what accounts these cuts have come to the aid of poor citizens and citizens, we have not really been able to find out. We know we're facing a sweetheart. Heating prices are rising, electricity prices, gasoline, diesel prices are rising, after all, food prices are rising by 10 percent, 20 percent, and 30 percent, depending on the food group. Although at the time of the covid-19 epidemic, the government threw billions of budget money into the economy as an injection, and although at least statistical unemployment had fallen, poverty in this country has increased simultaneously, and this is a trend that we can expect to see in the future. More! It has been a very long time since the minimum cost of living has been recalculated, i.e. the basis on which social transfers are given, including monetary social assistance. These minimum cost of living needs need to be recalculated in order to align social transfers with the real needs of people in this country, so that the poor can at all connect with community support the beginning and the end of the month, as far as possible. All these factors therefore lead to the fact that more of this money will be needed in the next year compared to this year's, not less money for social assistance, but more of this money. This is even more true in 2023. Our amendment fixes this government's miscalculation and provides an additional €40 million for social assistance. I hope that there will be enough votes in the National Assembly to correct this kind of government malpractice and lame methodology. And if I translate this amendment of ours into an ideological lingo, which the Slovenian right also understands; it is poor Slovenians, our cousins. Are we really going to let them down?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u196	We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SD and SAB to this sub-programme under number 2. Mag. Mr Bojana Muršič, explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u197	Thank you very much. With this amendment, we propose to provide an additional EUR 30 million in the next year, in 2022, to help the energy poor in this winter. Given that we have discussed a lot in the National Assembly this week on this subject, and also when we open both television screens and media, we see that the prices of life’s necessities, energy, fuel and other things are rising enormously. People find themselves in extremely difficult situations, already in difficult situations this year, and in the coming year it will be even harder, for with 1. 1. 2022 is forecast to be a great deal of encouragement. As a result, more and more people will seek financial social assistance at social work centres, and it is extremely important that there is enough money on this item to help people with social work centres. Although everyone in the National Assembly would really like this to be less, unfortunately today the situation shows that those who are employed also find themselves in such a difficult situation that they simply do not have the money. On the other hand, we also have pensioners who really weigh whether to buy food or to spend money on heating. This is simply unacceptable in our social country today. That is why they also need to help, to provide enough money to live a decent life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 45. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme of Social Protection Programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme under number 1. My friend Vojko Starović has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, chairman. This is a truly commendable programme prepared and implemented by the ZDUS, namely the Association of Retirement Associations of Slovenia. The programme has been running since 2004. More than 60 thousand older people are included in this programme. The content of the program is that older ones care for older people — but those over 69 years of age — who go to home, visit, ask what they need or do not need, to a doctor, to import hot food, to help with household chores. Thus, it is possible for the elderly to stay at home, at home, what we all want to do — stay at home. No one has any desire to get out of their environment and away. And as long as they can live and stay at home with such help, life is much better. This programme is based on volunteering. It includes more than 3,000 500 volunteers. And they drive this program on their own. We, as the SAB, propose that a country that has not yet formed not accepted long-term care will contribute a couple hundred thousand, 560 thousand. I think that this programme, which has received the highest national award in 2020 and the highest European humanitarian award since the European Parliament in 2017, certainly deserves our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the long-term supply subroutine. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme under number 3. She's a magician's colleague. Mr Alenka Bratušek on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I think today has been the final signing of an agreement that will specifically raise salaries for 35,000 workers in the field of health and social protection, which, of course, we support in our party. However, we do not support that the burden of this lift should be passed on to the pensioners. For almost 6 percent you plan to raise care in nursing homes, 5.6 is the exact number. And for those pensioners – and there are few – who are already hard to pay today or are not able to pay at home for the elderly themselves, they will be relatives, children will have to pay even more. 2.5 percent of their pensions have risen this year, and you will raise their allowance by 5.6 percent. So you're going to take 3 percent out of their pocket. It is right to raise your wages, but if you agree to do so, you must also provide money and not bear this burden to the pensioners. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, chairman. As a young child, I was cheered up by the addresses of the last week that reported that health and care workers, led by nurses, could finally reach the increase that they so badly need. Their wages have been lagging behind for years — especially in the homes of older citizens. But then, a few days later, he came up with a little press. The cost of raising these salaries, so much needed to raise these salaries, would be borne by the Government on the shoulders of pensioners and their families in a way that would raise the costs of the care paid for accommodation in the homes of older citizens. This is totally unacceptable. Poverty among pensioners is already very severe. We have almost 100,000 pensioners who live and go to a pension of less than 500 euros. There are several more who go to a pension of less than 600 euros. And these are people who are pushed to the brink of society. Even now, home care is often unable to afford — an average supply cost of €680 each month — and their families, their families, their families, and the social state should provide financial support for people of old when they were old, as they worked and created in this country. The only thing that's fair is that they're insured at their age. But no. When calls were made for this increase in the salaries of nurses, caregivers, other staff to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as would be the case, Minister Cigler Kralj responded, saying that they “examined all the possibilities”, this is a direct indication, “but regrettably to the Government of the funds from which to pay this raise, in the budget, they cannot fully ensure” in public funds. Butch. I'm calling Butch. Today, a party colleague of Minister Cigler King, the author of this statement, signed a contract in Rome to purchase a military aircraft, difficult not 16 million euros, but 72 million euros. It's money. There's enough in the budget. The question is whether we will direct him to provide for the elderly in their homes, even now the tall ones that the pensioners cannot afford, stay the way they are, or we will impose even more on the poor. This is the purpose of the current amendment and the next amendment. They differ in the fact that the one we are about to vote on is a little less accurate, and the next one is a little more precise. It's all about the same amendment. We'll support both of you in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u204	Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? I guess not. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Since I'm a slightly older child than Miha Kordish, I actually went to see how much these salary raises would be necessary to raise wages in the care sector. In the DSOs, as a rule, 60 per cent of the workers in the minimum wage, net salary raises will be €22. The net salary raise for everyone below the level of nurses will be somewhere between €22 and €78. In short, beyond what we are saying about pensioners and I will support this, these increases are essentially too low and people will go to other jobs, especially because there is a shortage of labour in Europe as a whole. This too will have to be done by the next government quite frankly than by a minister who comes from some sort of honest story. Just so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members, 43 to 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this sub-programme under number 4. Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. Part of the salary raise for care workers has already been provided from public resources, but 16 million euros remain, the same 16 million euros that the Government would have translated into higher care for poor pensioners and their families. The Amanda we have gathered in Levica provides this €16 million coverage for the higher salaries of nursing and healthcare staff in the homes of older citizens from the budget. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia is financed by the taxes paid in this country to finance together the things we need as a society. Access to nursing homes for people who have already contributed to society is certainly one of those common things for which people pay taxes at all. Surely, though, people in this country do not pay taxes for their money to be used as pigs with fur and to buy weapons that we do not really need. So if anything should be in these sad, sad times of the health crisis our priority is social and health protection of citizens and citizens, access to home for older citizens is placed directly in here. In fact, it is necessary to say that this increase in wages in care and health comes too late and, according to my assessment of the hard work in the homes of older citizens, is too low. From a human resources perspective, the Government has been working since the beginning of its mandate only to ensure control in the economy, repressive apparatus of the country and so on, and in a somewhat broader sense, energy has invested in mobilising young boys and girls in this country and putting them on military uniforms. What happened to us in the meantime was that the personnel we had in the homes of older citizens and the medical staff in the hospitals to start mass leaving. Only after the complete collapse of the system was the government prepared to slightly repair the salaries of the nursing and health staff up, but today we also know what it looks like, that salary correction should be financed by the poor pensioners and their families from their pockets. Perhaps if I make an even more black assessment of the situation and the context in which this amendment is located, all this bragging about how the government of Janez Janša has taken care of the pensioners has given them the additions, today it has its true face. We're going to give you one piece of fine change so you can spend the rest of your life in senior care homes. No, thank you! We have a budget with public funds, we use it to pay nurses the right way, but not to put this cost on the shoulders of the pensioners and theirs. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members, 43 to 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2711 – Ministry of Health. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme Investment Investment on a secondary and tertiary level. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of Public Health Orders. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme under number 1. Masha Kociper, explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u209	Dear Members and Members! Together, I would explain the following two amendments, both under the Public Health Order sub-programme, not only to our SAB Group, but to all of you in the National Assembly, one doctor, in fact two doctors, will not use names, but I will say that they are respected representatives of respected institutions. One is head of the Children's Psychiatrics Department at the Paediatric Clinic, and the other is a well-known doctor, a mental health prevention campaigner, or currently head of the National Mental Health Programme. Both doctors, on behalf of their institutions, point to a significant increase in mental problems that have occurred in recent times not only in children and young people but also in adults. While these mental problems and hardships have increased in recent years, probably because of the way of life we have, they have increased significantly in recent times, not only because of health, but also because of the accompanying social and economic crisis. It is being observed, and this has been pointed out many times in this house, and we have also had extraordinary meetings, one we have proposed in the SAB, a large increase in mental problems in children, a significant increase in suicide, self-injurious behaviour, rejections in behaviour, more smoking, drinking and so on. All of this, of course, results in some poorer condition of this population, which may increase over time if it is not treated of course and properly addressed. In fact, these two amendments involve a little over $2 million to implement programmes to strengthen mental health, prevent the development of mental health problems, early intervention and psychosocial support for vulnerable individuals and groups with mental health problems. It is already existing programmes, one such is the Tom programme, which, of course, needs adequate financial support. These are also programs to strengthen self-image, face challenges in adolescents, early interventions at home, and so on. In the SAB Group, we will certainly support both amendments. However, I ask that you provide support to the others on this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. First of all, we are moving to a sub-programme for supporting activities in the field of education and sport. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 2. Mr Andreja Zabret on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. The illustrated Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was a joint project of the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court in 2011 at the time of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At that time the Constitution in the comic book was created as an online version and in 2017 the comic book was also published in printed form. The basic objective of the Constitution in the comic book is to bring the highest act of social and political regulation of the Republic of Slovenia closer to children and young people in an original, simple and creative manner. The main heroes Maja and Miha perform in illustrated stories in Slovenian, walking in a witty and instructive manner through the most important articles of the Constitution and thus learning about democracy and active citizenship. The illustrated Constitution in the comic book has proved to be more than an excellent tool in strengthening the democratic education of younger citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Young people have come closer to getting acquainted with the Constitution in a comic book, and they have accepted it very positively. In the LMŠ, we believe that the Constitution in the comic book should reach every first-grader and first-grader, that is, knowledge of their duties and rights and awareness of democracy and the rule of law is crucial in raising active citizens and, finally, future electorates and voters. Therefore, with the aim of getting the illustrated Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in a comic book, we proposed an amendment of EUR 50 000. The amendment for 2023 was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Finance and not by 2022. If we support this amendment for 2022 today, that means that first-graders and first-graders will be able to receive it in the next school year, in the first grade, the Constitution in the comic book. I'm so asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 11. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme No. 3. We're voting. Hang on, I'm hanging up. Maša Kociper has an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u213	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, we have previously rejected the additional employment of counsellors in primary schools and the education of principals, and there is €500 for additional employment of consultants and – education of advisory workers and classmates. These, however, are the advisers, the peers and the principals who in primary and secondary schools help with the pressures of the children I spoke about earlier and make sure that these pressures are seen in time that they can then do their job on the other program that you have not confirmed. So, if there was no support there, in the SAB Group we will certainly support the amendment, which gives little more money for counseling workers, in particular for the fact that the classrooms will be, not only those who are already experts, but those who are not, detected among the children of those who need help, and that they will react in a timely manner and that there will be no such terrible things. Just a few days ago, at my son's high school, another girl committed suicide, and these are really urgent measures, if they could do something to prevent that sort of thing. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes. We decide on the amendment of SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica to this sub-programme No. 1. Mag. Raj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u215	Thank you very much. See, in the SAB Group we have tabled an amendment to provide air ventilation and disinfection facilities in the primary school system. I know that the virus that we are witnessing to him now is spreading particularly captivately, and we need that students in schools can be safe and that the possibility of spreading the infection is reduced and all available technical measures are carried out, the necessary means. That is why we have foreseen that €6 million is earmarked for this, and we also have a similar amendment for secondary schools. High school students are also very vulnerable, and there are viruses in schools, and we know that if a child becomes infected in primary education, parents must be at home with him, and this has an impact on the economic process. So please support our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u216	Mag. Dejan Židan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u217	Thank you, President, for your word. We have talked about this many times in the National Assembly, as have the Germans and many others, that out of 7,000 infections there is only one external and all the rest are from indoors. The measure implemented by smart countries over the year, such as Germany, Austria, Great Britain, if you want America or even Canada, was that until they found a better solution, they installed simple and cheap air cleaners in places where children are. That's a very small bite. What has been the effect of this has been found that one small cleaning device in the children’s room is less than four times the possibility of infection. So that many install a second, third and fourth until they have set up expensive air-storage systems and put in clean quality air. In fact, we propose that with a small cartridge four times better than now, protect our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u218	Thank you. Nataša Sukič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u219	Not on behalf of a member of the group, but in his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u220	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u221	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u222	In his own. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In his own name, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u223	Yeah, I support that, too. Let me tell you something else. Not only is it cleaner air that prevents infections, it's even energy-efficient if you have built-in recuperators. So it's a double benefit. I don't see any reason why everyone wouldn't support it. I'll back it up myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 43. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to this sub-programme under number 3. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 4. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme under number 5. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the music education sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Activities of institutions for children and adolescents with special needs. We decide on the amendment of the MPS to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes. We decide on the amendment of SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Activity of higher education. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Activity of Higher Education. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. I'm breaking up. You waved your hand. [[talking to each other]] We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Please carefully wave your hands, this is similar to the signs at the airport, so that we take them seriously. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary group to this sub-programme under number 2. Franz Trček has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry. Social Democrats are proposing an amendment that stems from some of the real needs that we have identified these days in order to lack staff in our public health care. If you want to have a quality frame, of course you have to educate him. The Faculty of Medicine of the University of Maribor already has everything ready to launch two study programs. One will result in improvements in dentistry in the medium term, the other in clinical pharmacology. For something like that, of course, you need money, like I say. This amendment is essentially intended to allow these two millions to normally run this study programme, so that there will be no knocking again on the hands of the MEPs from Maribor and some ministers and some promises up and down. I hope there's enough sense in the National Assembly to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u226	We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the covida-19 funding subroutine. We decide on the amendment of the leftist groups and the LMŠ to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340 Ministry of Culture. First we move to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to the Publishing subroutine. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. Mr Zabret's explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u227	The financial crisis has already considerably cut into the Slovenian literary landscape decades ago and created new business models and fragmentation into much smaller publications or adaptation to all smaller and volatile market revenues. Also, for seriously printed publications that are not subject to hypnotic commercial flows, there is less room. During the covida-19, the publishing industry experienced a 90 % drop in traffic. To a lesser extent, the purchase of books has moved online and other possible locations, while at the same time libraries have not purchased books of current production. The closure of the bookshop has led to a delay in the payment of the author's fees for the work already done, the delay in the implementation of the projects or their cancellation. The situation is even more serious because publishing is mainly an economic sector in which self-employed people represent a large part. Already with the 2020 budget rebalancing, Slovenian publishing was cut by more than €1.5 million, and now the proposal for amending the budget for 2022 provides for a reduction of €673,000. Since the country is funding top-notch book production and consequently outstanding Slovenian authors of even younger generations with the amendment, we are proposing an increase of €673 thousand 102 to enable the publishing industry to develop in a predictable and continuous manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Pet Culture sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the Art Program subroutine. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left Party and the non-aligned Members to this sub-programme under number 1. Violeta Tomić has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u229	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. We always say that the budget is ideologies or politics. I think it's the most obvious thing to see here, because creativity and art programs have lost as much as half. We propose that what is given to repression, however, be reduced and given creativity. Look, the priority of this government is water cannons, handguns, tear gas, instead of investing in the economic sector. The economic sector is culture. The Creators lived before the epidemic, a third of whom were below the poverty threshold, and now too many are thinking about abandoning their activities. This is an activity from which taxes are paid. These people are doing international projects, applying and bringing in a wealth of money from the state. The problem here is that the government simply punishes independent workers in culture. I therefore ask you to consider, however, that cultural people are important, that they are an economic sector that fills the tax box and that culture is an important sector. And from six million, as has been the case with the adopted budget for 2022, the funds are now falling by half, that is to say 3 million, which is totally unacceptable and will destroy one sector, the cultural sector. I therefore call on you to support the amendment to return to the cultural sector under the Art Programme item what has been taken from them at the expense of repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u230	Thank you. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. (The vote was 43.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. (The vote was 43.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of SD's parliamentary groups and unrelated Members to this sub-programme under number 3. Mr Trček has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. It comes from a set of related amendments, only this time we are returning to the situation as it was, and we are proposing an increase of 3 million in the area of invitations to promote cultural creativity. Why do we need this? You know, we also need cultural creativity to make a more cultural decision about the use or non-use of such and other cannons and, I hope, especially the non-use of tear gas. And I would be very happy if we supported that. But since that previous vote, he's already left me with optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. (The vote was 43.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4111 – Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to the Sub-programme of Judicial Procedures. Meira Hot, explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Very briefly. The Supreme Court has re-recorded an increase in the number of pending cases following the covida epidemic after several years of decline. The number of outstanding major cases increased by a total of 7 % in 2020 compared to 2019. Thus, after many years of decline, it rose to the level of outstanding cases since the end of 2017. The problem of an increase in the number of pending cases, due to the reduced workload in the courts over the past two years due to the co-vid epidemic, is already an extension of judicial proceedings and will have a significant impact on the performance of the judiciary in recent years. Indicators relating to the duration of proceedings are expected to deteriorate due to a large number of pending cases, which could jeopardise the European Court of Human Rights time standards relating to the trial within a reasonable time. All of this has already been warned by representatives of the Supreme Court by both the government, ministers and Members of Parliament. Therefore, in the opposition, we proposed an amendment for 2022, which provides the Supreme Court with an additional EUR 855 000 for 30 professional colleagues and repays the reduction in the total amount of EUR 2.4 million, which was unilaterally taken away from the Supreme Court in September. We believe that it is essential to adopt the amendment in particular in respect of respect for the European Convention on Human Rights and the trial within a reasonable time-limit, because this country has already paid a great deal for the fact that a number of years have been tried in unreasonable and long-term proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4112 - The Council of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to the support activities and administration sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending the budget as a whole. Luka Mesec shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We will vote against this budget in Levica. The first reason is that virtually all the opposition's amendments were rejected as regards long-term care, climate, school recovery, the normal functioning of the courts, the provision of normal funding for culture and so on. The second reason is that this budget, as I said before, has been set in a pre-election manner. If you look at the European Commission's assessment, you will see that Slovenia has a structural balance next year minus 5.5% of GDP, and that is the second worst result in Europe, immediately for Romania. Thirdly, although spending is increasing enormously, there is no funding in this budget for key development challenges. For apartments - you would need about a billion funds to build 10,000 missing people, you will spend 60 million euros. For health care, investments are 133 million less than for the military. For climate change, you say you are adding 50 million to the items of the three ministries, but on the main item of the Ministry of Finance, the funds are falling from EUR 374 million to zero, the real net effect of this fight against climate change is minus EUR 324 million in the practically largest budget we have had so far. So that the budget does not respond to the development challenges, the budget does not prepare the country for a green breakthrough, the budget does not respond to the social challenges that this country has, I am talking mainly about the social challenges of young people. Having an apartment or having access to a favourable apartment is ultimately the basis of social security for generations. On the other hand, the budget spends enormously on the military, as I said before, the defence budget will increase to a record €900 million by 2023. We cannot support such priorities, nor can we support a policy that reopens its doors in the next budget, so that funds can be allocated directly beyond budgets, but we will say more about this in the law on the implementation of budgets. We will vote against it in Levika and we hope that it will be possible after the elections to correct what can be corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u236	Thank you very much. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm breaking up. My friend Ducky, but we're on special business.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u237	Of course, thank you for your word. The oldest Member of Parliament, even shit needs to be done, which you probably know about your age because you're rolling past the microphone. There is absolutely no way I can support the budget, which is in fact the largest budget so far, but something stops at the concrete, if I also think of a recovery and resistance plan that stops at which little cousin will concrete. At the same time, give a Member who supports you for a branch school that has fewer than 40 pupils, almost 2 million, 50,000 less, but you will not find in these billions 2 million to get the two urgently needed study programs implemented normally at the University of Maribor. Against this well-intentioned proposal, my neighbour, who, by the way, has a wife in the structure of the university, votes in favour of the first Styrian stallion with a Ferrari. I will absolutely oppose and such policies and such budgets. And we shouldn't laugh, sir. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, we are still in the special part of the draft amending the budget. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 46, for 39. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that a specific part of the draft amending budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 45, for 40. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the proposal for amending the budget. I ask the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance, whether the draft budget is coordinated in terms of revenue and expenditure and in parts. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u239	Due to the amendments adopted to the specific part of the Draft amending budget, this budget is not harmonised and a harmonisation amendment needs to be drawn up. It takes half an hour for the government to prepare the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u240	On the basis of the Government's opinion, I note that the proposal for amending the budget is not harmonised. The government should prepare an amendment to harmonise the Draft amending budget. Until the amendment of the Government, a mother's working body will also be identified. I will not interrupt the meeting once again, because we will first vote on the 3rd item of the agenda, where there can also be a discrepancy in the draft budget. I shall adjourn the session after the vote on agenda item 3. The Government should prepare a harmonisation amendment at this time. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the Complementary Draft Budget. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 45, for 40. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 11. 2021. We are moving to budget user 1311 – Constitutional Court. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to the sub-programme Activities of the Constitutional Court. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members, 43 to 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1811 – Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB to the Sub-programme Implementation of Foreign Policy and EU Affairs. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members, 34 to 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a budget user in 1912 – the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and to the Subprogramme Preparedness of the System for Protection, Rescue and Assistance. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 1. Rudi Medved has an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u241	On behalf of the Group of Members. The Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities clearly requires the State to assume the financial burden of financing firefighters in the area of all Slovenia. This is now arranged at local levels in very different ways. The law provided for a uniform regime, but we did not track this item in the budget of the Administration for the Protection and Resolution of this item. Mayors also ask how it is because the law is very clear and in 2022 this funding should be transferred to the country. We have tried this with the amendment for 2022 as well, but unfortunately it was not accepted. We can accept the amendment for at least 2023 and thus encourage the Ministry of Defence to resolve the matter for 2022. Let me say again that this is a state's legal obligation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budget user 2430 of the Ministry of Infrastructure. First, we move to the renewable energy subroutine. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this subroutine. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Development of the highway and road network. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SD Group to this sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2550 Ministry of Environment and Space. First, we move to the subroutine Water Management. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 43. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Wastewater Management. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to this sub-programme. Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. Apparently, clean drinking water is not clean for some, for in the previous amendment you supported that you still give money to Salonita Anhovo for restoring her water source. Read the amendment. In this amendment, which we are going to talk about now, we are giving funds for a new connection to the water source of Mrzlek. Apparently, some people don't understand everything in this country. I had to say this because you talk all the time about how clean drinking water needs to be provided, how water resources should be excluded from private society, and then you give support to the amendment that does it. This amendment, now in turn, will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u245	Only procedurally because of the irregularities or irregularities that Mr Krivec has now spoken. The previous amendment was to regulate the water source elsewhere and absolutely has nothing to do with the water source that Mr Krivec is talking about. So it was a delusion. But still, the amendment has been adopted and the Social Democrats are pleased with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u246	Thank you very much. It was not the most procedural proposal, as before, not an explanation of vote. Procedural proposal, colleague Sukič? Explanation. First of all, he has the word Andre Zabret on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. Now in this amendment we are talking about a new alternative source for Anhovo. We've already supported the amendment for 2022. There is now a need to support the 2023 amendment so that we can then implement what we all agree on here, and arrange drinking water for the inhabitants of Anhove. In this amendment we are talking only about this new source, so there will be no mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u249	Of course, we will be united in our support for this amendment for 2023. Let me clarify some of the irregularities that have been said here. By providing drinking water from the water supply after the new, once the water pipeline is built, it will be achieved that it will no longer be possible for industrial waste water to mix with water that is supposed to be potable to be domestically used. So these comments are very incorrect. While I am glad that the SDS will support this story, the comments are incorrect. The fact is that drinking water pipelines cannot travel through an industrial area where industrial waste water is actually being invaded. And this happened this summer, this happened several times last year, and this has been happening all these years. And that's what we're talking about. Not whether the water is drawn from the Soda or not. We're talking here about the fact that there's no intrusion of industrial waste water. And let the colleague read what happened this August or July, I think, in Anhove. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 2. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2611 Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. First, we are moving to the sub-programme Training and Education. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this subroutine. Nataša Sukič has an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u251	On behalf of the Group of Members. We will support this, regardless of the fact that you're not in 2022. Look, once again, the real needs of people may seem to have a sense of minor stories, but the social reality is a mosaic of those that look like minor stories and people's needs. One need is also for single - parent families who are in very great distress, many below the poverty line, and especially in critical situations are single - parent families when other parents do not even provide support. The operation of the scholarship, development, disability and maintenance fund should therefore be strengthened. Therefore, the police in which the enormous funds are invested would be excused, 500 000 euros, as far as they were supposed to go from their budget in 2023, would not know anything, but would substantially change the fates, tribulations and stories of those single parents who are in need of this blood. I really don't understand whether in this National Assembly there is a lack of social sense, of listening to the most basic needs of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens and children in these families. I really don't get it. I think that the NSI, which is responsible for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, should be the first to listen to us and support this if the budget has already been missed. I'm asking you to reconsider. This may be a small thing for you, but for many it would be a big deal. So I'm asking you to back this up. We'll back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u252	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. (The vote was 43.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the Employment Initiative sub-programme. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. (For the vote was 33.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a sub-programme to promote the development of NGOs and civil and social dialogue. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. (The vote was 43.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the subroutine of Social Security. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 44. (The vote was 40.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to this sub-programme under number 2. Miha Kordish, explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, chairman. For months we have been listening to the praise of both the government and the right-wing parliamentary benches, how well this government is doing, how it is the most social government in the world. But more than flossules and fantasy fairy tales of the right is a dangerous situation in which this right hand actually believes its own fairy tales. And then we get items like the item for monetary social assistance, where the government believes itself to be doing well, and it reduces the funds on this item of monetary social assistance, even though poverty in society is actually growing. In spite of all the funds that have gone as injections to society and the economy, the combined risk of poverty in this country has increased. And this is statistics that don't even cover the last inflations that have hit energy and food products. And that's just gonna be more. The picture will only be worse and the money social assistance insists on the same level. Not only will there be more beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, it will also be necessary to recalculate the minimum cost of living, which is the basis for determining the amount of social transfers. Thus, we can expect more social assistance needs, and this social assistance needs to be made higher. But what does the government do? The budget item is cut. The means will be less than now in the coming year and in the year later in the budget, which we are talking about right now, although there will be more needs and more needs. Completely insane and completely without a concept. But that's what happens when the extreme right trusts itself. By trying to correct this budget ferret and wrong mathematics in Levica, we have therefore tabled an amendment which places the monetary social assistance item on additional millions and puts the number on some life-realistic level that the country will certainly need. The budget line, as set out now, is simply not sustainable and does not survive the meeting with the reality of poverty in this country. We are not talking about the political priorities at this point, but about the legal obligations, the resources that the state must pay under existing legislation. The government, however, was a little bubbling up and the budget line for monetary social assistance was cut out. Let's at least let the Members collectively jump to help, correct its mathematics and in the same process support the applicants, recipients of social assistance, our poor citizens and citizens who cannot help themselves with the labour market because there are no jobs for them and we have to collectively protect them as a whole [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Explanation on its own behalf. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In his own name, Nataša Sukič has an explanation for his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u255	Respected and respected! Instead of predicting once and for all a serious fight against poverty, the eradication of poverty, poverty is only deepening with such moves. In addition, I don't know, we're not all currently living in an epidemiological situation that is horrifying and that closes many jobs, which means that more and more citizens are currently unemployed and not lazy, as you like to say, are not exploiters of the system, as you like to say, but are simply people in distress who need this social assistance for some time in their lives. But by cutting funds, I don't know where or how they'll get it. I really don't understand whether you are completely forsaken by humanity, by that basic social sense or something, to afford such moves in such a luxurious budget that goes beyond all the limits we've known so far, but here on such things, you cheapen at the expense of poor people who are not poor at will and are not lazy as you tell them, and are not exploiters of the system. I will definitely support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme of Social Protection Programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the long-term supply subroutine. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2711 of the Ministry of Health. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Investment Investment Sub-programme at the primary level. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 3330 Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We are moving to a sub-programme of support activities in the field of education and sport. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme under number 2. Mr Andreja Zabret on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u257	Thank you. I would just like to recall, this is the same amendment that was adopted in 2022, which is said to be an illustrated constitution for first-graders, so that the project can be implemented. In the LMŠ we wish that this project would not only be for the years 2022 and 2023, but also for future budgets. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u258	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 2. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There is hope for our constitution. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of pre-school education. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups to this sub-programme. Dejan Židan has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u259	Thank you, Mr. President. When we vote here, let us remember that if cheap air cleaners are indoors, children are four times safer. Yeah, it's from Professor Kebra, but if the others were reading it, we'd be somewhere else today. She wouldn't be 5 grand ahead of us. When we vote on this amendment, please, let's have the number 5,000 in front of us. Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]] 5,000 needlessly dead because you don't listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u260	I ask for some silence when the Member reasons his voice. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes. We decide on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340 Ministry of Culture. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. Explanation of the vote by a colleague [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The amendment that we will now vote on concerns the reception and information centre of the partisan hospital Franje. After the rehabilitation of the partisan hospital of France in 2010, when it was almost completely destroyed three years earlier by a devastating flood and a devastating wave, unfortunately the reception and information centre was not built. Thus, the restoration of the monument ended halfway, even though the ideal plans for this facility were made at the time. Last year, Cerkno Municipality bought a guest house with sanitary facilities in the parking lot in front of Franjo for 100,000 euros because it exercised a preliminary right. With an amendment of EUR 400 000, we would provide funds for the start of the construction or arrangement of the reception and information centre of the Partizan Hospital Franje, which bears the mark of European heritage and is, for example, on this prestigious list together with the Athens Acropolis, which already has such a museum and an information and reception centre. I'm asking for your support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 44. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4111 Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to the Sub-programme of Judicial Procedures. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budget user 4215 of the Celje District Court. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. Ms Kociper has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u263	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you will not mind if I now explain in detail at the 11 amendments why we will vote in favour of the SAB Group. So I hope there's no offense, because I hear there's been some bad will on the board. I'm kidding, of course. I'll explain with one amendment. It is simply not possible to properly amend these matters in the way we have amended it. But it's a very good thing that I'll never get tired of trying and trying. This is a matter for the Court of Associated Mediation, in cases where the parties are already in court, our courts offer them the possibility of mediation, which means that they themselves can influence the course of the proceedings, the speed of the proceedings, the costs and decide for themselves what is an acceptable solution for them. We are one of the best in the world in Slovenia in these associate courts. A third of all parties decide to decide on the mediation of both parties, and in 50% of all cases throughout the years mediation is successful. This means that not only are the parties more pleased because they agree on a solution, but savings are enormous for the country as well. In a case where mediation is successful, there is no trial, there is no judge's work, there is no part of the clerk, there is no need for a court, there is no need to invite customers and witnesses, there is no need for evidence, there is no need to write a judgment, there is no appeal to a higher court, there is no need for higher courts to decide, there is no need for a hearing, there is no need to return to a retrial, there is no enforcement, because people agree voluntarily. And these are really big savings. Not to mention that people have become like this, at least I am who I am and the people I know that we want to influence the solution that is important to us. This is also a matter of child-to-child agreements, mutual property agreements and so on. In short, it's a little money for one good thing. There's never enough money here. For some time now, family mediation, which has been successful at 70%, has been paid from European funds. And there's not enough money for all the other mediations. So a couple of these guys, the coalition, we could really squeeze. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members, 33 to 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4216 of the Koper District Court. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members, 33 to 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4217 District Court in Kranj. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, for 31, for 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4218 District Court in Ljubljana. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 33 to 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4219 Maribor District Court. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 34, for 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4220 District Court in Murski Sobota. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members, 33 to 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4221 District Court in Novi Gorica. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 34, for 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4222 District Court in New Town. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 32 to 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4223 District Court in Krske. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members, 34 to 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4224 District Court on Ptuj. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, for 32, for 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4225 District Court in Slovenj Gradec. We decide on the amendment of the SAB Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme – support activities. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. (For the vote was 32.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 37. (The vote was 46.)(against 37.) I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 37. (The vote was 46.)(against 37.) I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance, whether the draft budget is coordinated in terms of revenue and expenditure and in parts. Minister of Finance, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u265	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! A specific part of the supplementary draft budget is not harmonised. It is therefore necessary to prepare a harmonisation amendment for which the government needs half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u266	Thank you very much. On the basis of the Government's opinion, I find that the draft budget is not harmonised. The government should prepare an amendment to harmonise the draft budget. Until the amendment of the government, the mother labour body will also be identified. This concludes the third item of the agenda. I am also adjourning the 27th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 17. 45, so in an hour and a half. At that time, the Government will prepare a harmonisation amendment to the Proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 and to the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023. A mother's working body will also be identified by the amendments. The meeting of the Committee on Finance will be held at 5 p.m. in a large salon. (The sitting was suspended at 4.17 p.m. and resumed at 17.46 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u267	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we'll continue the meeting at 18. 15. (The sitting was suspended at 17.47 and resumed at 18.15.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u268	Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! We continue with the adjourned session and item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the Government's amendment to harmonise the Proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. Would you like a representative of the government? No, no, no. Does the representative of the Finance Committee who addressed the harmonisation amendment want to speak? Yeah. You have the floor, President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u269	Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of Article 42 and Article 163(3) and Article 166(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, as its parent working body, prepared an additional report to the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022. At its 66th emergency meeting today, the Slovenian Government's harmonisation amendment to the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 was addressed as its parent working body. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022, the Government has prepared an amendment to harmonise the draft budget in individual parts. The Committee supported the harmonisation amendment in the text, as proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u270	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the proposal for changes to the state budget. Do representatives of the parliamentary groups also want to speak? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are therefore moving on to the vote. We are voting on the amendment to harmonise the draft amendments to the state budget. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 as a whole. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 40. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2022 have been adopted. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Robert Polnar, MEP. Mr Pogačnik and Mr Jožet Lenart, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly, draw up the final text of the amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2022. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the government's amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal for 2023. Would you like a representative of the government, Mr. Minister? No, no, no. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Finance Committee, President Robert Polnar? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u271	Mr. Ducky, 20, 30 seconds, and I'll step away from your perspective. [[Laugh]] Colleagues and colleagues, supplementary report of the Committee on Finance on the 2023 updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At today's meeting, we discussed the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023, the Government has unanimously supported the harmonisation amendment and the Committee has adopted the harmonisation amendment prepared by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 2. (The vote was 71.)(against 2.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023 as a whole. An explanation of the voice? Jože Lenart, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u273	The budget of the Republic of Slovenia 2023 is, of course, unrealistic and unsustainable. It bears irreparable risks for the future development of Slovenia. On the income side, we find an unrealistic rise that the government is planning on optimistic assumptions, despite very clear warnings today that epidemics are being followed by many problems at global level. However, there is no way to understand planning on the side of expenditure, which is even lower than in 2022, despite optimistic forecasts of economic growth. What did the government not follow in planning the legal obligations for 2023 in the area of public wages, average increases, pensions which are, of course, covered by the budget? Interesting. However, you have reduced funding from NGOs in recent years, and we wonder whether this saves the sustainability of public finances. Of course, the excessive increase in expenditure in 2020, 2021 and 2022 as an electoral year had to be stopped in 2023. And here we're wondering if you're introducing Zuyf as a result of this suspension of the increase in expenditure. That's what we're asking ourselves in the List of Marjan Sarcas. Nevertheless, the budget deficit is the result of a budget deficit of 1.5 billion or even 13% of total revenue. Without co-existence, however, 1.4 billion or 11.5% of total revenue remain, even more than in 2020. In 2022 we have a higher deficit than in 2020. What's the logic here? And that is what is unacceptable and shows the irresponsibility of this government. Thus, the deficit increased to 11.5 billion or 23 000 per citizen in four years. This means a 50% increase in indebtedness to 2019; in four years we have increased the debt by 50%, both nominally and counting on the citizen. With reckless spending, you've put Slovenia in a corner. You have halted the development, as the upcoming fiscal policy they are predicting will need to reduce the deficit, cut spending and stop investment. Unfortunately, you don't care. Gifts number two, Trojan horse, we don't accept. In the LMŠ we will vote against the budget for 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 42. (The vote was 45.)(against 42.) I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023 has been adopted. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Robert Polnar, MEP. Mr Pogačnik and Mr Jožet Lenart, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly, draw up the final text of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2023 on the basis of the decisions taken by the Council. We vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2022 and 2023 in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 43. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th paragraph of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on the elimination of wrongs for the removal of legal persons from the Registry in the period from 23. Seven. 1999 to 16. 11. 2011 under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 15 November 2021. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 5. Maša Kociper has an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u275	I would say, on behalf of the SAB Group, that we will vote against this amendment, which simplifies proof of eligibility to compensation and also against this law. Until yesterday, I was convinced that it was another desperate attempt by a small group of people who had tried all the resources so far, including all the remedies to prove their right and lose their right in all courts. Thus, both at all stages of the ordinary court and at the Constitutional Court and also at the European Court of Human Rights, it was found that these beneficiaries were not harmed at all and that their rights were neither violated nor were their human rights violated, nor were they excessively affected by their legal situation. We have here a situation where all the courts say that the deletion was legal when the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia even says many years ago that they cannot be held accountable by those owners of companies that were unable to influence the responsibility of companies and yet now we have a completely lobbyist law before us, which for a small number of victims, 20,000 people, imposes a special compensation procedure where they will now be burdening the courts, state defenders, all alive to prove that they have been wrongly erased. Someone said yesterday, indeed, that the value of this law is now only EUR 50 million, we were previously unable to give a million and a half for the mental health of young and adult people, but here is 50 euros for people who have been in our legal order on all Instants and, I repeat, even on the European Court of Justice. A law was passed in the National Assembly, proposed by Janko Weber, who even stopped the proceedings pending a decision in the European Court of Justice. And the European Court decided that they had not been violated by their rights and the law and procedures continued. I'll check in later to tell you why these companies were wiped out. I think it's the right of the state to hold companies that are inactive, that are ineligible, that have caused large debts, and they don't want to quit. I'll call again and explain to you why these companies were shut down. Now, for these 20,000 individuals, we pass a special law, we introduce a special compensation procedure, we burden the judicial system. Until yesterday, I thought it was impossible. I will vote against this amendment, which also simplifies their established damages, and also against the law. Then I'll call you back.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u276	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 52, for 22. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law and since the drafter of the draft law in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 56 to 27. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. You are informed that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly in the second reading of the draft law would make it inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Masha Kociper, explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u277	As it is said, the SAB Group will reject this law and until yesterday I was confident that we would reject it with disgust all together. About what happened. Many years ago, some of you may still remember, in our country, he very liberalized the way you set up your company, including partoo. Anyone who wanted to, with very little money, could set up their own company. And that's what happened then. Then a bunch of these companies were operating normally, and a bunch of companies were doing some business, buying services, products, borrowing, and instead of returning their liabilities to creditors, they left the company and set up a new company, such as a new share. It's been a lot of times for one-person societies. This part worked again, again made debts, and again this owner left it and set up another. At one point, it became uncontrollable. I was then employed at the District Court in Ljubljana. The court register was a total Texas. There were a number of companies on the Court Register that did not pay their creditors who did not give annual reports which were completely inactive. And the normal law has adopted a procedure whereby these companies have to do something over a period of time: either prove that they are normal businesses that can operate, or end their business by virtue of forced settlement, bankruptcy or whatever. Some people did, but some said, "I don't care about my creditors, I care about the state." And they didn't do anything. During a period of time, the state is correct, since what are you going to do, such companies have been wiped out. But then they started shouting and screaming, and now they want us to give them back the money they owe to their creditors. The Constitutional Court said that those who were not actively responsible for the company’s obligations — I heard some family stories yesterday — were not responsible for those debts. At the same time, the Constitutional Court and the European Court said that someone who had set up a society and left it behind and refused to liquidate it properly was partly responsible for debts. Now these people, who had to partly account for their debts, would like us to adopt a law on compensation. It is true that they will have to prove so further, but it is a message where they will enforce and prove the damage that has occurred to their company. Three courts have said that, despite the fact that this is part of it, there is a partial liability of the shareholders. Now we will have years and years of procedures when damage is detected, damage in nature and so on. Beznik taught this in his master's degree in law, which is what tears go into my eyes. Let us consider what kind of law we adopt. For 20,000 people, we are adopting a law, a lobbyist law, which Mr. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražij has an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u279	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. The fact is that this law, as mentioned earlier, is essentially about companies that can be called zombie companies. We have already discussed this subject yesterday, and Mrs Kociper remembers very well that this government, the current one, gave its position on this law on 8 July, which was very negative or negative. In fact, after a certain period of time, this government will again, through a coalition, pass a law that has been turned on its head, completely changed and requires us to support it. As has already been said, the Constitutional Court, by constitutional judgment, has only announced or ruled that these companies have also had the opportunity, in certain cases or in several cases, to demonstrate their ability to do so, whether they have indeed been in these legislative procedures or when they have had to prove their assets, they have had the opportunity to do so by some legal procedure and have not done so. They were given an opportunity, but a large number of these companies or individuals did not take advantage of the legal and legislative options offered to them. That is why we can say that they were zombie companies or zombie entrepreneurs. That is why we will not support this law in the Left Group, and it is right that the government should also consider that it will not come at any time with these proposals of laws, which are indeed Lobistic laws. This was also clearly reflected in the bill itself. On the other hand, if he intends to think as much as he thinks about this marriage, it is no wonder that we are in a situation like this: chaos. One day like that, another day like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. In his own name, he has the word Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u281	Yeah, I'm just adding that. I understand that this coalition owes some service to the State Council. But the message given to the National Assembly by so partially saving some small group of people who have lost in all the courts is, you have a disgrace, you have lost in all the courts, it is incomprehensible to me. Yesterday, the Secretary of State stood here saying that the government of this law does not support that the law is inconclusive, that it is not clear how it will be implemented, how the damage will be proven. They even want reparations in nature, he said, are unclear monetary consequences. And even the government has said that in the current macroeconomic situation, it is unreasonable to adopt such a law that can have 50 million or more consequences. I don't understand that we're re-adopting one law for certain people just so that you're returning some services to the State Council. This is a typical lobbyist law, and no legislator can have a greater excuse for an action than to say that it was the decision of all the courts and nothing was wrong. Here, however, all the courts, even the European Court of Human Rights, have decided that they have not been wronged, that they have not been unduly intervened in their position, and that persons who have no influence on the functioning of society are different fathers, mothers, uncles, what you said yesterday, exempt from responsibility. And you will now impose on our judicial system and our attorneys to deal with this. And 50 million will cost the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u282	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 30. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Space in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 11. 2021. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 98. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 141. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 310. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against one. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 333. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have carried out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 33. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Draft Construction Law under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 11. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Group of Unaffiliated Members to Article 5. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 42. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Leve, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 10. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u283	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. This amendment was based on an interview with the Ombudsman. The removal of built barriers and the accessibility of facilities for persons with disabilities are determined by the Construction Law and the Equalization of Disabled Persons Act, and the problem arises with regard to the competence to inspect the removal of built barriers on already built facilities. The Disability Equalization Act provides that discrimination is prohibited and that where they are not, they have a 15-year transitional period to harmonise, so that facilities for disabled persons are accessible. It's like pharmacies, schools, health homes, malls and so on. However, the competence of the building inspection is not sufficiently clearly defined, whether it has the competence to check that the facilities are adapted after 15 years. Therefore, in this law we give the building inspection authority to verify that old objects which need to be adapted have been adapted within 15 years in a way that makes them accessible to the disabled. We support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u284	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 44. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the members of the left-wing groups, the LMŠ and the SD to Article 142. Mr Tomić has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Violeta Tomić Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We signed this amendment in Levica because it is an attempt to prevent NGOs from being excluded from high-tax procedures. What can I say? So far, the appeal fee has been 18,10 euros, and this is a general tax under heading 2 of the Law on legal fees. However, the increase under this Construction Law is about five and a half times, without any explanation as to why this is necessary, we can only conclude that they want to exclude NGOs from these procedures. If non-governments who work mainly for free and live on donations have to pay a fee of thousands of euros to appeal, they are likely to withdraw from this procedure. It is said that these fees have a deterrent effect, and this is unacceptable in the democratic process. It is also contrary to the Aarhus Convention, which states that NGOs must always have their say in such procedures. So I suggest we support this amendment. With this amendment, we also coordinate the law with the Aarhus Convention, and we wish that the fees would not be so great that NGOs and natural persons would not be able to complain about the building permit and participate in the proceedings in the legal dispute due to these extremely high fees. We will, of course, support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u286	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 45. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have carried out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Procedural proposal, Comrade Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u287	I'm predicting a third reading of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u288	We're not there yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u289	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u290	Okay. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no explanation for the voice. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the applicant proposed that the assembly, on the basis of the rules of procedure at this meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on this proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We vote on this decision. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 38. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. As the proposed decision is not adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the assembly adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Scientific Research and Innovation in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 11. 2021. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 33. The port of Mesec shall have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u291	Thank you very much. In Article 33, we add the record that, by means of public funds or public calls referred to in the preceding paragraph, each year, funds are also provided for the full financing of the purchase of at least one piece of research equipment of greater value. The problem is this. The ARRS plans provide €10 million for 2022 and €11 million for investment in research equipment in 2023. But the problem is that there is only a fraction of the value of purchases of equipment when it comes to more expensive equipment than EUR 300,000, which means a particular problem for research institutions, institutions that have to buy equipment worth a million or two. It is said that for researchers who have to work with more expensive equipment, this is a major obstacle. They find it difficult to collect alternative funds, their own resources, to co-finance what they are running out of. That is why we are changing the dictatorship and will support the amendment in order to make it easier for researchers to work so that they can also afford much-needed equipment of higher value.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u292	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 44. Porta Mesec shall have an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u293	Thank you. Here we add the following dictatorship: The Agency is obliged to check the conflicts of interest of persons participating in evaluation procedures or members of professional bodies. The problem is that, in addition to the task of monitoring the legality of the purposeful use of the funding allocated to the ARRS, we propose in Levica to add to the tasks of the ARRS the obligation to verify the conflicts of interest between those involved in the evaluation procedures or members of the professional working bodies. This exists abroad, while the Agency should follow the example of comparable organisations in the international space, such as the European Commission, which distributes funds through European collective programmes. It should take into account the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. For this is not taken into account in the present law and it would be very reasonable to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u294	We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. (For the vote was 38.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 45. Luke the moon has an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u295	Thank you very much. With this amendment, we offer the opportunity to researchers who apply for an invitation to tender and who are refused to make a substantive complaint. The current sentence of paragraph 11 provides that an evaluation by an assessor may not be subject to an objection to the ARRS decision, which makes no sense, and therefore, in essence, the possibility of refusing an application or an application for funding is denied to researchers in general. We have thus supplemented the dictatorship by the possibility of a substantive complaint.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u296	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 44. (For the vote was 38.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 93. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 1. (For the vote was 57.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 97. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 45 votes against 1. (The vote was 45.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 98. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. (The vote was 45.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 99. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 1. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 101. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. (The vote was 45.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 103. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. (The vote was 43.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have carried out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SMC to Article 93. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 16. (For the vote was 65.)(against 65.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly adopted amendments to 93, 97, 98, 99, 101 and 103 of the amended draft law. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly in the second reading of the draft law would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 November 2021. We decide on the amendment of the members of the Left, the LMŠ, the unrelated Members, the SAB and the SD to Article 17. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 43 under number one. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the members of the Left, the LMŠ, the unrelated Members, the SAB and the SD to Article 17 were not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 43 became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 43 under number two. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 45. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 45. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 45. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. An explanation of vote shall be given by Natasa Sukić on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u297	Respected and respected! This amendment to the Penal Code is a small disaster. Indeed, the existing criminal code correctly defines the crime of threats in such a way that the prosecution begins at the request of the injured party. Even an oral proposal is sufficient. But no! You're not stopping. What you have failed to do in the Law on Public Order and Peace is now in the third paragraph of Article 135 of the Penal Code, which is highly controversial. This is highly controversial for at least two reasons. The first is that the initial assessment of whether, in some cases, the threat is indeed a threat is transferred from the subjective assessment of the victim to the arbitral assessment of the law enforcement authority. This not only deprives potential victims of their actual ability to do so, but, on the basis of the breakdown of the current regime whereby the injured person himself has to make a proposal for the initiation of criminal proceedings. However, another controversial aspect is, and this is indeed very controversial, the creation of a new category of victims. The additional protection of the highest authorities and their neighbors due to threats is constitutionally controversial, as it violates the principle of equality before the law. This regulation is not even in line with the spirit of the European Convention on Human Rights, and it also opposes the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, which says that high-level political function holders must carry more, grave and very sharp cities as well, or, if you want, exaggerated, public criticism, no less than is the case for ordinary people without public functions. We know that the boundary between threat and criticism of power can be quickly erased, so we need to be extremely careful about such matters. And that's what this is all about. This kind of legislative commitment can serve a single purpose, and this is the fear and discipline of citizens and citizens, which will put at risk the freedom of criticism and the freedom of public expression. One of the consequences could be that people will be afraid of public statements and will resort to self-censorship and that the criticism of power will be only a matter of privacy. In fact, you're proposing some sort of verbal delicacy and raising a political class over ordinary citizens. In other words, if the minister treats us with pigs and sloths, it's okay, but if someone in the same manner answers, they'll be sanctioned. That is why we strongly oppose this in Levica and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Jure Ferjan has an explanation in his own name
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u299	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! I personally stand in the position that the threat, the threat of death cannot be compared with the criticism of part of politics, with the criticism of the work of the government. Today, by this vote, a clear signal will be given to who is behind the fact that the crimes that are threats are being pursued by official duty. My view is that this is a signal of policy, which also gives a clear message of what is right and wrong in society. Whether a single act is a threat or not will not be judged by an individual, but will be judged by a court of law. Respected and respected! Today, I have shared some concrete cases of insults with you, and that was funny for some. The threats not only I have received, but also other fellow Members and colleagues. And I will conclude my explanation of vote with another concrete case that is not more than two days old. On the confirmation of his wife's mandate as an MP, we were threatened, and the fate of Hribar's spouses awaits you. Respected and respected! Is it political discourse, or is it an expression of opinion, or is it a democratic expression of opinion? Is that what we want? I don't think so. Respected and respected! I think it is right that politics today gives a very clear signal. And those of us who vote for the law are able to condemn threats, regardless of who gets them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u300	Thank you very much. How much more interest is there in his own name? I'll start the list and please sign up for an explanation of vote. Applications are under way. The first one has the word Predrag Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u301	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. What we have just heard is not really an explanation for the voice. I will explain my vote as I have had my debate, because it is unnecessary, in particular, as far as Article 17 is concerned, to introduce an officially persecutive crime because it has been sufficient already on the proposal. I think that the situation is unnecessary, because of some things that have already been arranged. Dear young fellow, look under my notice the comments that have been happening in the last hours, and you will see that there are the same problems on both sides. Just read some comments about how they're sending me somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u302	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u303	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be a little more personal. On August 1, 2014, when we were walking in part surprised against the National Assembly, I had not yet stepped over the door of this temple when I had them — what was it? – that my mother is a whore, that I'm a gypsy, that I should go to Belgrade, that I should go to Kumrovec, that I don't know what. This is what SDS supporters were yelling at me. I used to say something inappropriate here myself, but as I've said many times, 99% of the bad things I've learned in the National Assembly, I've learned from SDS trainees. I'm afraid that's some sort of fact. Violeta and I saw people at home addresses literally with their heads in trash cans when they were putting together our mail. A respected SDS member of the SDS took pictures of Violeti on a ferry under his wing. Yeah, we all have homework to do, like Grandma says. But first, your homework is waiting for you. But if you're going to adopt this law, I'm afraid the pot will have to come to Trstenjak's basement first. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u305	Your Honor! I'm in the middle of a procedure because I was threatened by an SDS supporter with death. Specifically. And I just reported it, just like the Penal Code does. I don't know why anyone else should do this on my behalf. That's one thing. The other thing is, there's no definition of what a threat is. And that's a very stretching concept, a matter of interpretation. How will a police officer arbitrarily decide what the threat was? We know well, some people now think that a transparent death of Janša's Janša's Janša is a threat to Janša's death, and we know that it is not true that it threatens a political ideology called Janša, not Janez Janša himself. But you would now, according to the new situation, when the police are already completely politically subordinate to your client, arbitrarily regulate it. And what does that mean? Psychological pressure on citizens and citizens not to be able to say much in public anymore will be strongly criticized. Is that freedom? Is that democracy? Please! This is the introduction of a modern verbal delinquency. What was wrong with the previous system, you'd like to get back to life now, and you're doing it. I don't know what's not clear here. The Penal Code has been completely regulated so far. Anyone who feels threatened can also report it orally and procedures run out. I really don't know why the police should be behind our backs in this case. So I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u306	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it, too. Not only because the Penal Code already regulates the criminal offence of the threat, but I will also vote against it because, with this novelty, the coalition is deceiving this change in the crime of the threat. You keep saying that after the new crime, this crime will now be prosecuted by official duty, because the score is gone today, but it is to correct you. The criminal offence of a threat is pursued by an official duty, but to do so requires some activity of the person who is at risk and must make a proposal. With this novel you want to establish first-class citizens - politicians and second-class citizens - all ordinary citizens. How? In a way that when a politician faces a threat, the whole prosecution and the whole judiciary will jump into the air. However, when a citizen faces the threat, obviously a second-rate citizen for you, he will have to make an effort to apply for prosecution, and then the crime will be prosecuted under official responsibility. In short, you are deceiving when you say that today this crime is not pursued by official duty, and you are creating divisions in society even more than you have already created. Because it is unacceptable that we or someone else, who will be privileged in politics, will be privileged to other citizens. Anyone with a shred of self-criticism should say no. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u308	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u309	Of course, we will also vote against this law in the SAB party. It's not so much a dispute as the other decisions of the law. There must be something useful among them that the Ministry of Justice has probably been preparing for a long time. It is again a subset in the form of this article, which you have already tried to implement, and you have failed, and now you are trying to implement it again. In the context of everything that is happening today, such a distinction that you are trying to introduce is totally unacceptable. Especially is it unacceptable how you have turned your record in recent years. When I came to this National Assembly, the SDS were full of freedom of speech. Freedom of speech is absolute, everyone can say anything, and the one who opposes it is an old-fashioned communist. You were absolutely for free speech. Now after a year and a half, you're turning the board, even introducing some special forms for government representatives and other officials. And that's really funny. This is particularly unacceptable in the context of what is happening in the field of repression. You dismiss more than a hundred police station commanders and other chiefs, you don't appoint state prosecutors, you don't appoint European Delegated Prosecutors, you don't appoint supreme judges, you don't give money to the courts, you don't give money to the Council of Justice, and now you're going to change the Penal Code. In these circumstances, of course, we cannot support such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u310	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will also vote absolutely against the proposed amendments to the Penal Code. Why? Because it's primarily the whole line against change. Since the profession warns that changes are unwise, they are potentially unconstitutional to create inequalities between certain groups of citizens in order to establish a privileged group of these few top officials and other citizens. Since you have given an explanation, this has been accepted by the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs and therefore the Ministry has responded. The Ministry responded because on Monday the intervention and the minister is in a hurry to please the ruling parties by paying the municipal fees, so that even temporarily today it is called the Delegated Prosecutors and so on. Hopefully, on Monday, this minister will even be present at the interpretation. The fact is, if a colleague was at risk, he should also report this crime. The fact is that the existing criminal code incriminates the threat on its own and requires the involvement of the injured party. A colleague could be involved in the process. Not that they will now be disproportionately burdened by the prosecution and the police, looking for various potential threats, where they will try to determine when a colleague feels threatened at any time. We've all had a lot of hate speech. However, it is crucial to distinguish between hate speech, between threat and resentment and to act accordingly. However, the Penal Code, the Basic Institute of Criminal Law, does not change in any way, in such a partial manner and only on the basis of the interests of a small political group. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u312	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 41. (For the vote was 47.)(against 41.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law amending and supplementing the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Mr Verbič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u313	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Today we are again deciding on a very important fact: whether there will be at least minimal competition in the Republic of Slovenia between two domestic and foreign drug suppliers. The first is Pharmadent and Grossist, and the second is Chemofarmation and Salus. On this occasion, the essence of Article 6 which is the subject of this Act must be re-examined. Article 6 removes an existing prohibition, so-called vertical link. In 2019, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that it is not unconstitutional and can be regulated in a manner consistent with European law. In doing so, it was noted that such a change would be part of the implementation of the general public health strategy, in order for the public health sector to gain its revenues in the field also in line with the restrictions of European legislation. The European Directive establishing the so-called ‘in-house’ public procurement by number 24. This has been arranged to prevent the public sector from being the spoils of the private sector and being left entirely to it. It also provided that the public sector can buy certain products and services within itself if certain conditions are met in four points. All these four points are taken into account in Article 6 proposed or adopted. On the basis of the above, the vertical link as defined in Article 6 means the exclusion in the Republic of Slovenia of private, read abroad, of capital to seize the public sector through the so-called public funds for medicinal products with the position of monopoly. In the SMC Group, we will vote in favour because the law is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Branislav Rajić has the floor on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u315	Thank you very much. The vertical links between the municipality and the public-owned drug supplier are a good solution for Slovenia, Maribor and Ljubljana. There are also these solutions in the European Union because countries decide whether or not they will have their supplier. Duopol two private drug dealers is a downfall for the Maribor Farmadent and a serious threat to Ljubljana's LL Grossista. Therefore, non-support to this law means that the sale of medicines and devices gives rise to profits for multinationals instead of returning to the people and local communities to expand the health network. It is therefore shocking that Members who oppose this law publicly expose their favor to foreign capital rather than to their own people, at a time when health care breaks through the seams. The National Council and the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia are more than obvious advocates of the interests of the two largest drug traders who want to raise their 70 percent share of our market to 100 percent control. This may result in cartel negotiation and advising drug prices, but the bay will ring late. 70 employees in Maribor will probably lose their jobs if this law is not adopted. We must ensure that public pharmacies and hospitals in particular are not entirely dependent on duopol private-owned companies. We are also amazed at the veto of the Council of State in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. It appears that the state councilors instead of the municipalities of Maribor and Ljubljana preferred to take sides with foreign capital. This shameless rejection, despite the unconnected Members of Parliament, will be once again supported by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Lidija Divac Mirnik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u317	Thank you for your word. During a month-long debate on this novel, it turned out that the management of the Chamber of Medicine of Slovenia is in fact the biggest threat to public pharmacy activities. If the management of the Chamber were to act in the public interest and genuinely advocated a public pharmacy network, it should today be a strong support for the preservation of two wholesalers with medicines owned by the public. However, not only does the management of the Chamber not only remain silent when it should be very loud, but its individual members, even with Chemofarmation and Salus, have been very active in urging Members to vote against this novel, thus ending competition in the supply market for medicinal products in Slovenia. This is the leaflet that was distributed through pharmacies where mayors and MPs were asked to oppose the law. Among other things, the leaflet states that the adoption of the law, i.e. the maintenance of the Ombudsman in public ownership, will result in the closure of pharmacies in smaller Slovenian towns. It's just one of the lies on this flyer. These are manipulations that we have also received from Members of Parliament, that the Pharmadent threatens the pharmacy network in Slovenia. The only thing that threatens Farmedent is the profits of Chemofarmation and Salusa, which is why both Farmedent and LL Grossist should be disabled. And that, of course, is also the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal is to fully privatise pharmacy activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Today, we have the last opportunity for Members to reject the privatisation of pharmacy activities in full and decisive terms. If the country is fully dependent on the supply of medicines from two private people who carry their profits abroad in these epidemiological times, we will be forced to allow private pharmacies to be granted if we are to have medicines. And then it will really be the end of public pharmacy and pharmacy in small municipalities outside urban centres, as they wish to show in the Chamber of Medicine of Slovenia. This amendment of the law must therefore be supported today, because the Last Defender of Public Pharmacy before its total privatisation, Farmadent and LL Grossist. My voice, as well as the voice of the LMŠ, is a matter of law and, of course, therefore, of the Maribor Farmadent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u318	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Reich on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u319	Good-bye. Today we are actually deciding whether the largest two Slovenian municipalities should sell their wholesalers by the end of this year or force them to terminate or send them into controlled liquidation. That's what we decide today. We decide whether these two traders can do business after the new year or not. Let me stress that this is a very important business. The company Farmedent was founded in the 1970s and has a 50-year history. This is a public-owned company, like LL Grossist, and the profits that they create go back to the public treasury, to the municipal treasury, to strengthen public health, which is very important in these times. Once again, all those who oppose the amendment of the law are asking the founders of both municipalities to cease their business by the end of this year at the price of both companies or in some way after the new year. We, once again, must prevent the Slovenian market from being divided by two multinationals in foreign ownership, in order to have an organised duopol and that the profits generated by these multinationals should go abroad. These are the main messages why we need to support this law. And we'll be in SABU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u320	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Mr Franz Trček on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u321	Thank you very much. I, too, am a Mariborian and the Social Democrats will once again support this law. The societies we live in are intertwined with public and private interests. Anyone who deals with business in capitalism would prefer to be a monopoly with externalised costs. However, it is not the task of Members and Members, who primarily represent public interests, arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to buy or inherit this story. We are here talking essentially, as Jani Möderndorfer might say, about the surplus versus profits. We have two wholesalers who are publicly owned who create surpluses and these surpluses are returning primarily to improving the pharmacy network, which is also public property. On the other hand, we have two players interested in profit. One goes out and the other doesn't know where they're going. They're probably some Slovenian gentlemen. I've already said that I actually have a problem with why there are no more farmers, why some other city halls have left, I'll just say what I have at the end of my tongue, pretend. We are representatives of the public interest, which we have hit with 1.4 billion interests, where in fact the two of them want to pop the other two, and then they want to sell the department to us the story that the duo is better than the four players. Since I've been in the National Assembly, whenever a government wants to sell me the story that the directive says so and so when I go to the Brother Directive, it turns out that they're lying fat as Mrs Forte did on behalf of the Ministry. The Directive is clearly written, can be organised with or without a vertical. And we are agents of public interest, so we will once again support this law. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u322	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u323	Thank you, President. In his own name, the explanation. When the opposition saviors of Maribor have told us everything, I will add something. This novel actually allows vertical integration in a public-public nature. In the context of the Maribor Pharmaceutical, this means maintaining this company in municipal ownership. As a Maribor Member of the SDS, I have committed myself to both the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the Moroccan interests, where I also assess that this Maribor pride belongs. Not only is this the majority of the congregation of Maribor, but we should not forget the local congregation. Duplek Municipality is also a minority owner of the Farmadenta. And, of course, I am convinced by this legal aspect. You probably all read the opinion of the regular professor from Mrs Janja Hojnik's Faculty of Law in Maribor, where she made it clear on 30 pages that it is not even problematic in the context of European Union legislation. So, honourable opposition Members, when you have always had enough words about Maribor, when you were in a reverse role when you were coalition MPs, I personally did not notice that you would have brought any project to Maribor, unlike the government of Janez Janša. As a Maribor MEP, as someone who has lived in Maribor for 46 years and has been breathing with this city and in Maribor we also have Kalohova Street, I will vote in favour and support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u324	Colleagues and colleagues, we're under the Pharmaceuticals Act if anyone's already off track. Jani Möderndorfer has a word in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u325	I'll vote in favour. Of course, I will not explain what is legal and what is not, because it seems to me that you have been in all this time and in the last ten years we have proved that the existing formulation is legal. I regret more today that some who have still strongly advocated a vertical connection have today changed the record, but no problem. Let me tell you, given that there have been many speeches about Maribor, what Ljubljana has from this Grossista and what it will never have from two competing companies, which are Chemofarmation and Salus. You probably all know the only, indeed, first institution that deals with the palliative care of dying people in Ljubljana. LL Grossist finances 85% of this particular activity, which would not be in Ljubljana if LL Grossist did not finance it. Certainly all the roofs in children's kindergartens and elementary schools in Ljubljana, for which the state did not give one cent, were financed with LL Grossista's surplus money. That is why I absolutely support, if not another, at least for your consciousness, which is full of some development, one, I will say, contributes to some identity, and I am sorry for all those who, of course, simply cannot see it. The public interest should come first for us Members. It is for me, and I hope that for the majority, I hope, today, we will end this ten-year saga, that these two great wholesalers must be abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. I'm actually glad that Kaloh's neighbor convinced me of the argument of a top-notch legal expert and our woman. But I have to say, I'm saddened by this gibberish. We are all Members of the National Assembly, and every government is the government of all citizens and citizens. I must also say that until this government arrived, we Members from our ecca at the club have worked well together. Then Kaloh took over, and on the local radio, he started bragging about how he was going to make all this work. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u328	We're here to explain the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u329	Back then, Bane was a little close. [[…]] Finally, neighbor, I don't need a street in Maribor, nothing to worry about, Ducks already have a hill over Vrhnika. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-11-18-SDZ8-Redna-27.ana.u330	My friend Runk! [[Laughing in the hall]] . We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 32. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, this is with Mandate-optional matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Aleksander Petrovčič as a member of the State Audit Commission for eight years. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 19. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge of the Deputy Ombudsman. On 14 October 2021, on the basis of Article 21, paragraph 1, and Article 22, of the Law on the Ombudsman of 14 October 2021, Ms Cotman proposed that the Council of State should terminate it prematurely from the post of Deputy Ombudsman on 31 December 2021 for reasons of retirement. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge Marjeta Cotman as Deputy Ombudsman of 31 December 2021. I inform you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 21 of Article 22 of the Law on the Ombudsman, that draft decision will be adopted if at least two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on Elections. The draft decision was submitted to the Parliament by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups for consideration. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision by which Carmen Cosmus Ferrjan is appointed as Vice-President in the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 1st item of the agenda, this is on questions from Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Minister and Ministers of 16 November 2021, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of corruption and mafia governance by Dr Mate T. Vatovec. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 41. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez) Janša to Mark Bandelli's question on the payment of taxes. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 44. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anjet Logar, to the question of mags. Andrea Reich related to the activities for the implementation of the arbitral decision between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity of Janez Cigler King to the question of Mr Jani Möderndorfer on the introduction of air ventilation systems from indoor spaces in social security institutions. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 45. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of mag. Meire Hot about self-testing students in schools. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Shirclj to the question of the Mag. Alenke Bratušek related to the public financial picture of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andreja Širclja to the question of Jani Prednik concerning the exit strategy for the period following the re-implementation of the fiscal rule. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš on the impact of the amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, 2017. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. (For the vote was 39.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič to Maša Kociper's question on the appointment of European Delegated Prosecutors. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. (The vote was 40.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Mr Željk Cigler, on the provision of temporary escorts to pupils and pupils in accordance with the final decision on direction. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 45. (The vote was 40.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question by Vojk Starović on the possible sale of land to Luka Koper Hungary. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. (For the vote was 37.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John Cigler King to the question of mags. Andrej Reich in connection with the increase in salaries for social workers. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. (For the vote was 39.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of Violet Tomić on the impermissible involvement of the Roman Catholic Church in secular affairs and the right to free decision on the birth of children. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. (For the vote was 37.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrea Reich in connection with the annex to the Treaty establishing and operating the system of electronic vignettes. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. (There were 36 votes in favour.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja's question to the Member of Parliament is Primož Siter's question regarding the Law on Citizens' Taxes and Property Taxes. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. (For the vote was 35.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Members and members of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons are advised that the 54th urgent meeting of the Committee will begin in 15 minutes in the small hall of Šubič. (The sitting was suspended 18.) NOVEMBER 2021 AT 19.50.)
