ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I begin with the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Franz Jurša, Violeta Tomić from 17:00 until the vote, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 9 a.m. to 13 p.m., Soniboj Knezak until 13 p.m., Nick Prebil from 9.30 p.m. to 12.30 p.m. and mag. Dušan Verbich. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on court fees within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Zlatko Ratej, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, is your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on Judicial Fees, which is before you today, pursues four main objectives. These are compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, the adjustment of court fees to changes in the applicable legislation, the improvement of the arrangements for such exemptions and the improvement of the access of lawyers to written documents in the event of defence under official duty. Under the first objective, that is to align with the Constitutional Court's decision, the upper limit on the value of the case for the assessment of judicial fees for unfair proceedings is reduced from €60 million to €1 million. In addition, it is stipulated that the applicant for such benefits will no longer need to obtain the consent of the family members to obtain their information by the court. The second objective is to adapt the court fees to the changes in the applicable legislation that have taken place since the entry into force of the previous amendment to the Court Tax Act 2016. The most important are changes in court fees for family cases where the fees are aligned with the new Unfair Procedure Act in conjunction with the Family Code. Special care is given to the protection of the benefit of children, as a new such exemption is proposed for a child who has reached the age of 15 and is able to understand the meaning and legal consequences of his or her actions and for the guardian of the child. In addition to family matters, the fees are coordinated with the new regulation of the audit with the Law on Collective Actions, the Law on the Establishment of Floor Property and other Regulations. The third objective is to improve the regulation of such exemptions. Such exemptions shall be extended to indirect budgetary users wholly owned by the State and to organisations which, as a public service, carry out the tasks of protecting rescue and assistance under the law governing protection against natural and other disasters. A party granted regular or extraordinary free legal assistance shall be exempt from legal fees for the same procedure. It will be clear that the opponent will also be able to exercise such benefits. Under the fourth objective, ex offo lawyers will be facilitated access to written documents by paying a judicial fee for photocopies only at the end of the proceedings. In addition, due to updated taxiing, the issue of the data carrier will reduce the need for photocopies. Other major changes include, in particular, a reduction of the electronic application fee by 20 per cent and a new such exemption for workers and insured persons as claimants in individual labour disputes and social disputes proceedings and for the applicant in the collective action procedure decided by the Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Justice as a working body by the mother, and I give the floor to Mr Blaž Pavlin, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on Justice is at its 34th session. 12. 2021 As a parent working body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Fees, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, which was 1. Ten. 2021 published on the websites of the National Assembly. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. In an additional explanation for the articles, Mr Zlatko Ratej, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, said that the proposal follows the following objectives. Consistency of such arrangements with the Constitutional Court's decision, as a result, reduces the upper limit on the value of the case for the assessment of judicial fees for unfair proceedings from €60 million to €1 million, corresponding to the amount of €500,000 for a fair trial. Adaptation of court fees to legislative changes following the last amendment, in particular in the field of family proceedings, all court fees for procedures for the regulation of personal and family status will be collected at the same place and uniformly regulated. Eliminating certain minor shortcomings in the legislation in force, in particular with regard to tax exemptions, as well as providing written documents in cases where lawyers carry out defence under official duty. It also identified the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. With regard to the amount of the judicial fee in judicial proceedings under the law governing legal protection in procurement proceedings, the Ministry of Justice considers that the proposed court fees correspond to the high value of the case. Ms Marolt, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said that the explanations given orally by the Ministry of Justice to the comments made in their legal opinion were appropriate. State Councillor Rajko Fajt presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law. The debate exposed court fees in public procurement disputes, which differ significantly from other more difficult administrative disputes, and provided for court fees for all lawsuits. Lawyer Lara Savinik said that the Slovenian Bar has made several proposals in the drafting process. Among other things, they warned that overly high court fees could deter customers from proceeding. General Attorney General Mag. Jurij Groznik said that the State's Attorney's Office also participated in the law-making process and expressed support for solutions that eliminate the found unconstitutionality and strengthen the state budget. The Committee voted, without discussion, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the absence of amendments to the draft law, the Committee on Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Blaž Pavlin gets the word again. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you very much again for your word. As mentioned above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for amendments to the Law on Judicial Fees to the National Assembly. The applicant shall in particular state the following objectives of the law. Consistency of such arrangements with the Constitutional Court’s decision, adjustment of court fees to legislative changes that have taken place since the last novelty of 2016 is mainly in the field of family proceedings. The Family Code has transferred the decision-making of certain family matters from the competence of social work centres to the jurisdiction of the courts. There is also a need to harmonise and arrange taxes. Fees shall be fixed for the proceedings in legal disputes, in disputes concerning the determination or challenge of paternity or motherhood and in disputes concerning the protection, upbringing and survival of children. In particular, any procedure for issuing a provisional order, whether before or during the family proceedings, will be subject to taxi. In this case, the fees will be calculated. The reason for each individual case to be charged is to adapt such a burden to the real extent of the work of the courts. In doing so, it should be stressed that the new regime will not jeopardise the principle of protecting the benefit of the child, since the payment of a court fee in the procedures for the regulation of personal situations and family relations is not a procedural assumption. The Court, therefore, shall, irrespective of the payment of the court fee, proceed with the execution of the proceedings and, if necessary, the unpaid court fee shall be claimed subsequently. The principle of the protection of the benefit of children in the procedures for the regulation of personal situations and family relations is also followed by a new such exemption, which will apply to a child who is 15 years of age and who is able to understand the meaning and legal consequences of his or her actions and to the guardian of the child. It is proposed to extend such exemptions to indirect budgetary consumers wholly owned by the State. These are legal persons organised in the form of a public institution, a public agency or a public fund; similarly, they are now subject to administrative fees. The same shall also apply to organisations carrying out protection, rescue and assistance tasks as a public service. The payment of court fees is in fact exempt from the established regime from the procedure for which regular or extraordinary free legal aid has been granted to any party. Following a new procedure, such an exemption will no longer have to be sought. When determining the customer’s assets, financial and liquidity status, which is a Espe or legal person, the novelty shall not take into account the assets with which the party is actually unable to dispose if the party demonstrates the legitimate reasons why the availability of that property is limited and on the basis of which it can reasonably be concluded that the party has not wronged them of its own volition. In cases where an application for the initiation of a procedure which can be submitted in a physical or electronic manner is submitted electronically, a new proposal is for a 20 % lower judicial fee for the proceedings as prescribed in the tariff section. Members of the New Slovenia will support the amendment of the law, as the novel, in addition to aligning with the Constitutional Court's decision, brings some meaningful simplifications and changes that will make it easier for weaker individuals to access judicial protection. We also welcome a new arrangement that will allow economic operators to avoid taking into account assets that the customer cannot actually dispose of, and a 20% reduction in the fee in the case of electronic deposits, which is aimed at promoting digital transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Monika Gregorčič, who will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u8	Good morning! Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Today we are deciding on the amendment of the Law on Court Fees, which pursues the following objectives. Consistency of such arrangements with the last decision of the Constitutional Court, which, by decision, annulled the rise in judicial fees for justice and related proceedings in the value of the disputed case of more than EUR 500 000. Accordingly, it is proposed to reduce the upper limit on the value of the case for the assessment of judicial fees for unfair proceedings, from EUR 60 million to EUR million. The amendment also aims to adapt court fees to changes in applicable legislation in the field of family proceedings. All court fees for procedures for the regulation of personal situations and family relations will be collected in the same place and arranged in a uniform manner. This will take due account of changes in family matters and unfair proceedings, such as the new procedure for determining the non-existence of marriage. The novel also removes some minor shortcomings in particular with regard to tax exemptions. From the point of view of court fees, access by lawyers to written documents shall also be improved in cases where they carry out defence under official duty. The Law on Court Fees has already been amended three times, in 2010, 2013 and 2016. Today’s novels also respond to the very life - threatening things that individuals face, and this reduces and introduces new tax exemptions. A court fee for a procedure in which a party may apply for the initiation of a procedure in physical or electronic form shall, for example, be reduced by 20 per cent when the application for the initiation of the procedure is submitted electronically. Among others, fees for dealing with the most common family matters are also being reduced. In addition, organisations that perform protection, rescue and assistance tasks under the law governing protection against natural and other disasters are new among the entities exempt from court fees. The amendment of the law will facilitate such an exemption for a procedure for which regular or exceptional free legal assistance has been granted to the party, since it will no longer have to submit a specific application. Such an exemption shall also be introduced for a child who has reached the age of 15 and is able to understand the meaning and legal consequences of his or her actions and for the guardian of the child in the procedures for the regulation of personal circumstances and family relations. Such an exemption will also be imposed on workers and insured persons as applicants in individual labour disputes and social disputes. In our Group of Members, we believe that the amendment of the Law on Court Fees adequately regulates the objectives set, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuš will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u10	Good morning to all present, especially to you, the distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, and of course to the representatives of the Government! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Fees in second reading. The purpose of the court fees is to contribute to covering the costs of the courts. In determining the amount of court fees, the legislator shall have a wide field of assessment. The current legislator has decided to reduce the budget inflows from court fees by about €96 000 per year. The obligation of court fees is reduced, which is good for people. The proposed regulation does not undermine the balance between the interests of the State after charging judicial fees and the interests of the parties in order to effectively access the courts. Because visiting a court for many or many is something new, many people are under unnecessary stress because they do not know what they can expect. Many people have already had experience with the court, if not otherwise, in what criminal proceedings or with legacy treatment. Trials are, in principle, expensive. When a person is invited to court, due to legal uncertainty he often hires an attorney, he is usually a lawyer. However, the legal rate has recently increased. In addition to all the stress that the party has when it has to take part in the hearing, the costs of the procedure are in the end. Lawyers are not cheap, so the country can only come to the opposite of people in a way that reduces court fees. At this point, I call on everyone to take advantage of such benefits as exemption, deferral and the payment of legal fees. The good proposal contained in the law is that, following the new exemptions, fees are also paid by organisations carrying out protection, rescue and assistance tasks under the law governing protection against natural disasters. The procedure for obtaining free legal aid is simplified as the person granted free legal aid will no longer need to be specifically asked for such an exemption. The law also pursues measures in the field of digitisation, as it provides that the court fee will be reduced by 20 per cent when the application for the initiation of the procedure is submitted electronically. A new such exemption is being imposed, if the worker decides to sue the employer, he will not have to pay the court fee. Children are also better off, as all those who have reached the age of 15 and are able to understand the meaning and legal consequences of their actions will be exempt from paying fees in the procedures for regulating their personal situation. If I snore. The courts must be accessible to the parties, which is also achieved by a favourable policy. The payment of a court fee is almost always the first obstacle faced by a person seeking to exercise the right to judicial protection. The information on the ground suggests that a number of citizens would opt for the right to judicial protection, but the current policy does not. Fees should be reduced in all those procedures which are not limited, such as disputes over property disturbances and indemnification requirements. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Jura Ferrjan. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u12	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear High Choir! The Law on Judicial Fees was originally adopted on 1 April 2008 and was then significantly affected by the regulation of the area of judicial fees previously regulated by the 1979 Act. The current Law on Judicial Fees was revised three times later – in 2010, 2013 and finally in 2016. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Fees, which we have before us today, brings such arrangements into line with the last decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. The Court's fees will be adjusted to the changes in the applicable legislation that have taken place since the last amendment of the Law, in particular in 2016, in the field of family proceedings. Such arrangements shall be in accordance with changes to family procedures under the Unfair Procedure Act and the Family Code. Such arrangements shall also be in line with certain other provisions. Some minor shortcomings of the applicable law are addressed, in particular with regard to tax exemptions. At this point, I would point out that the payment of court fees will already be granted by law to a party for a procedure for which regular or extraordinary free legal aid has been granted under the Free Legal Aid Act. This means that she will no longer need to be specifically asked for such an exemption. It will then also improve the access of lawyers to written documents in cases where they carry out defence under official duty, of course from the point of view of court fees. I would also point out that the proposed legislative changes and additions follow the same or original general principles as the applicable law already provides. As the most important point, I would point out the principle of a single single fee for a level-by-step procedure, including a decision to be issued by the court in this procedure, to an individual procedure. The principle of the determination of court fees according to the value of the subject matter - fixed charges remain an exception or an exception - and the principle of proportionality between the amount of the court fee on the one hand and the service of the court for which the court is paid. In view of the above, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. It's my last turn. Meira Hot. It will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Judicial Fees is an extremely professional law. The amendments thus bring such arrangements into line with the Constitutional Court’s decision; the adjustment of court fees to the changes in the applicable legislation which took place since the amendment of the Law on Court Fees-1C was introduced in 2016, in particular in the field of family proceedings. He transferred the family code from the social work centres to the courts. The amount of the legal fee for marital disputes is maintained at EUR 72. An unaltered fee shall also be maintained for the determination or challenge of paternity or motherhood and for the decision-making procedures on the protection and upbringing of the child, the maintenance of the child and the contact of the child. If in the same proceedings several different cases are to be dealt with by the court, it will normally be necessary to pay a fee for each individual case, as the preparation of the novel was based on the fact that the parties have to contribute to the costs of the court and, if several proceedings are to be carried out, of course, the cost is also higher. The proposal specifically pointed out that the proposed regulation would not jeopardise the principle of protecting the benefit of the child. Of course, that's the most important thing. It is expressly laid down that the court, irrespective of the payment of a court fee, shall, in the procedures for the regulation of personal status and family relations of the case, be dealt with and the unpaid charges shall be recovered separately and subsequently. The amendments also address some minor shortcomings of the current law, in particular with regard to such exemptions, and the proposal also brings solutions to the issue of providing lists in cases where lawyers carry out defence under official responsibility. The section’s comments were largely taken into account during the legislative process. Social Democrats will not oppose the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading and since the amendments to the transitional final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE INITIATION OF INVESTMENTS IN THE framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Andrej Cuz, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u16	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! Allow me to briefly present the key points of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Promotion Act. Investments are one of the most important factors in promoting economic development for the national economy. With the proposal of the law before you today, we want to realise the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia from the Recovery and Resistance Plan to guide investment activities towards green transition and the achievement of higher economic productivity, as well as to allow the use of an additional EUR 88.5 million to promote investments under the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. With these funds and this direction, we will, of course, remain competitive with other countries in attracting investments and create a simple and predictable system of awarding investment incentives. On 18 November, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the law and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for admission under urgent procedure, explaining that it is a matter of achieving the agreed objective set out in the Recovery and Resistance Plan with the European Commission; therefore, the reform must take effect by the end of this year at the latest, or that the funds from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism may or may not be compromised. Investments to be financed under the Recovery and Resistance Plan will be co-financed through a public call for SPIRIT public agency, within the following adjusted investment frameworks: between €1 million and €12 million in processing, € 0,5 million to €3 million in service activities, and € 0,5 million to €2 million in development and research activities. For these incentives, the added value to the company employee two years after the completion of the investment must be higher than the added value to the company employee in the financial year preceding the year before the submission of the application. At the same time, the obligation to create jobs is being abolished and the commitment remains to maintain the number of jobs. Of course, the number of jobs also adapts to the green transition and includes new green conditions: energy efficiency of production, environmental responsibility, fundamental efficiency, the start of investment within six months of the award of the subsidy and the achievement of at least 40 per cent of the estimated green points, which are environmentally sustainable criteria. At the same time, it is not allowed to support investments contrary to European standards, so we must not damage materially or be contrary to the objectives set out in the EU Regulation to promote sustainable investment. More detailed criteria will be laid down by a sub-legislative act and will best reflect the contribution to the green transition with current criteria or indicators. The draft regulation is prepared and published. His 30-day public hearing was also concluded last week. On the other hand, investments financed from integral funds, i.e. investments above the thresholds of EUR 12, 3 and 2 million, are financed on the basis of a direct role, as so far. The strategic investments followed by the same approach are also identified, with the required number of new jobs being halved and the possibility to apply EU rules on the granting of aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be particularly important for areas that could fall to the western part of Slovenia at the time of the new regional map, but can be supported to a smaller extent, taking into account the rules for investment for small and medium-sized enterprises, of course. Allow me also to thank the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Council for constructive comments and the Committee on the Economy and, of course, the members and members of the Committee for the adoption of the two harmonisation amendments which follow this opinion and, of course, the comments of the European Commission. The Slovenian economy therefore needs to change the law on investment promotion in order to promote capital intensive investment, investment in more advanced technology and automation of business processes, which will in the long term allow greater productivity, competitiveness, resilience and green transition. We believe that through this approach, which means gradually improving the business and support environment, we will be able to keep already present companies in Slovenia and, of course, encourage them to further expand our business as well as attract new investors. This will further affect the establishment of a positive investment climate and optimism, which may mean a new development momentum for the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia needs the law now to allow it to draw resources from the recovery and resilience mechanism, since any different decision represents lost opportunities for Slovenia. There have been too many in history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mrs Matei Udovč, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u18	Your Honor! The Committee on the Economy is at its 41st emergency session of 6. 12. 2021 and 43rd emergency sessions 13. 12. 2021 As a parent working body, the Government submitted a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Investment to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of Presidents of the National Assembly shall be held at its 122nd session. 12. 2021 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Group of Members and Members shall be 6. 12. 2021 On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has submitted an application for a re-decision on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to examine the draft law in accordance with an urgent procedure. The National Assembly is at its 28th session. 12. 2021 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC parliamentary groups, namely Articles 1 and 2 of the Act. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the 41st urgent meeting of the Committee and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Legislative and Legal Service. In a supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology presented the main objectives and main solutions to the bill. He stressed that the proposed law was the basis for implementing the commitments of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, to focus investment activities on green transition through reform and to achieve greater productivity of enterprises and greater competitiveness and resilience of the Slovenian economy. The resolution of the proposed law makes it possible to draw up an additional EUR 88.5 million to promote investments under the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. The representative of the ZPS explained that the comments in the written opinion were intended for greater publicity, certainty and internal compliance with the bill. She explained that some of the comments had been taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups and that the Ministry had provided written explanations for the others. The representative of the Council of State presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the reasons why the Commission supports the proposal of the law. In doing so, he presented some of the dilemmas and issues raised by the Commission on the implementation of the proposed law in practice. In the context of the debate at the 41st emergency meeting and the 43rd emergency meeting, some members of the Committee drew attention to the problem of eliminating the creation of new jobs as a condition for the allocation of funds under this heading and to some of the dilemmas related to the automation of production and digital and technical progress. Fear was expressed about some of the negative consequences that the proposed solutions would have in practice for workers. Some members of the Committee expressed their support for the bill and drew attention to the role of productive capital and investment in reconstruction and the expansion of the production process as a prerequisite for economic progress. The impact of investment on productivity gains and the impact of investment on consumption as part of aggregate consumption on national income through multiplicative processes has been highlighted. It was pointed out that the essence of the proposed law should be focused on ensuring a framework that would allow Slovenia to obtain EUR 88.5 million of European Union grants for investment purposes. The discussion also presented the impact of covid-19 on the economic system, in particular on service activities or tourism. In order to support the recovery of these segments of the economy, it is necessary to establish appropriate legal bases for the efficient use of European funds for projects included in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and one of the above-mentioned bases is the law's proposal. There is also a need for the stability of investment support to the economy, which takes into account the environmental and sustainable objectives set and supports the digitisation of the economy. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology responded to the questions raised and provided further clarifications on the dilemmas expressed in the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI, SMC to Articles 1 and 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u20	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed choir! We Christian Democrats believe that every human being needs an environment that enables and encourages development in order to realize his talents. The task of the state is to create an environment like this. In doing so, it must leave people large enough freedom to make their own success stories. In Novi Slovenija we advocate a social market model of the economy, whose success Christian Democrats have already proven in Germany and elsewhere in the world. This model certainly gives freedom to create its way with its knowledge and work. At the same time, it also gives everyone peace of mind that the state will help him if he is ever severely damaged in his life. Currently the biggest challenge of the Slovenian economy could focus on the issue of productivity. Despite many good results in other indicators on productivity, Slovenia has been around one fifth behind the European Union average for a long time. A higher standard, higher wages and development at the level of countries, such as Austria and Germany, will not be able to achieve otherwise than by increasing productivity, so it will be necessary to create an environment in which the economy can invest and create more value. In Novi Slovenija we therefore welcome the Investment Promotion Act, which builds on the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, with which the current Government successfully addresses the recovery and long-term development of the country after the stalemate caused by the covida-19 pandemic. The €88.5 million funding follows the objectives for a more productive economy, for a digital and green transition supported by a positive assessment by the European Commission of 1. Seven. 2021. In New Slovenia we are aware of the crucial moment of the current time when we need to provide an appropriate business environment to strengthen development and increase productivity. We believe that the proposed law will make it easier to increase productivity and the long-term competitiveness of businesses while ensuring the sustainability or reduction of carbon emissions and the digitisation of business. The route will lead to higher added value of products and services in Slovenian exports and higher positioning of Slovenian companies in global value chains. Christian Democrats will always support proposals aimed at creating a higher added value with a particular focus on regional balance, which will contribute to the development of the Slovenian countryside in the future. It grieves us that, on the other hand, the extreme left ideology does not understand the importance of the economy and the entrepreneurial initiative. With their view to economic development, it calls for an inclusive involvement of the country, which we are accustomed to from most of the surviving systems. Some use it today, for example, in Venezuela. Christian Democrats are aware of the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises representing 99.8% of all companies in Slovenia. They're mostly private property. We say that they are the backbone of our economy, because they employ almost 70 per cent of people and generate 65 per cent of the income of all businesses, so we strongly oppose the words of the extreme left that the proposal will be subsidised by private companies. Such statements show great ignorance and ignorance of the Slovenian economy. Christian Democrats want to increase the investment position with a higher value in GDP and thus approach the European average mainly through the search for long-term strategic investors that will contribute to sustainable investment with high added value. We believe that only by increasing the share of investments in the cost structure of green and digital solutions in Slovenia will we improve the competitive position of companies and thus increase the possibility of participation in global supply chains. At the same time, it is important to encourage investments by rapidly growing companies in order to increase their participation in the European and global economies. The aim of New Slovenia is to create an enabling entrepreneurial business environment for the development of new ideas and a higher added value. More must be gained from economic success. We believe that the Investment Promotion Act supports excellence and progress, rewards work and puts our trust in entrepreneurship, so we will unanimously support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u21	Ms Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greeting to all present, especially to the Secretary of State, the representative of the Government! Today we are deciding on changes and additions to the Investment Promotion Act. This is one of the key reformed investment documents under the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, which will strengthen the productivity of the Slovenian economy in the long term through investment in higher productivity and green technology. Our economy has been successfully picked up by a blow hit by the covida-19 pandemic. In order to continue to create a good economic climate, we must encourage the appropriate legal basis for the further implementation of our investment plans. We must also strive to lay the groundwork for the efficient use of European funds for projects included in our Recovery and Resistance Plan. This mechanism provides financial support for reforms and investments that will also help to mitigate the economic and social effects of the Coronavirus pandemic in the future. Complements of the Investment Promotion Act will therefore allow for the promotion of investment projects in priority sectors, which have been selected on the basis of a multi-military approach and are included in our Recovery and Resistance Plan. An important part of this plan, which weighs as much as €88.5 million, is foreseen for reforms related to a more productive economy, digital development and green transition. In a challenging epidemiological situation, our institutions have taken effective and rapid economic measures that have greatly mitigated the decline in economic activity. The forecasts concerning economic growth in the coming periods are also relatively good. Despite the favourable macroeconomic environment and encouraging forecasts, recovery is still necessary, as the overall impact of the health crisis on the economy still cannot be accurately assessed. In addition, institutions such as the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD point out that, after the end of the epidemic, national economies are expected not only to return to a pre-crisis level, but also to a clear strategy for addressing challenges such as digitisation and green transition. In our view, the new Investment Promotion Act is a step in the right direction, as in the current situation we must avoid any negative changes in investment dynamics. Therefore, it seems crucial to us not to stop supporting the development of our economy in these difficult times, but to do everything in our power and to provide it with additional investment resources. This is particularly important if the purpose of these funds is in line with our core economic objectives, such as raising added value, sustainable development and green and digital transition. Finally, we would like to reiterate that the economy is a generator of the welfare and social security of the state. The fact is that the possible blockade of the implementation of our Recovery and Resistance Plan, as well as the reduction of the envisaged funds for economic investment, would be known later on in the remaining social sub-systems. On the basis of these facts, we will support the amendment of the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u24	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members! The bill before us is the first legal basis that is necessary for the possibility of using resources from the recovery and resistance mechanism. It is 88,5 million euros, the amount that would come to the Slovenian economy at any time. After all the shocks and congestion brought by the covida-19 pandemic, the funds are all the more welcome. Investments are one of the main driving forces and the most important factors when we talk about economic growth. It is the duty of the State to promote investment in all available ways and with all possible mechanisms. However, what investments at a certain point in time give priority is changing over time. The times in which we live are marked by the tendency to move to a carbon-free society as soon as possible, to which we must subdue as many other areas as possible. Accordingly, new requirements are also laid down in the field of investment. The green break-in and the activities necessary for it must no longer remain within the framework of what is desired, but must move to the necessary areas. Nothing is sufficient to seek as much as possible to take into account the environmental aspect and therefore these considerations should also be applied. The requirement introduced by the law that investments in exclusive activities be not financially supported by the recovery and resilience mechanism, which is detrimental to the objectives of climate change mitigation and the transition to the circular economy, will not come under the impression that it is essential and welcome in the SAB Group. Certainly, as a country, we must also strive to promote investments that not only bring about technical progress and productivity gains and the country's long-term competitiveness, but also provide for coherent regional development. The fact is that in Slovenia, one of the biggest challenges in the field of investment is precisely the uneven regional distribution of investments. Almost 50% of the investments are placed in the Central Slovenian region. As a result, investments that are good and welcome are often compounded by anger between developed and underdeveloped work. In the SAB, we therefore agree with the amendment that eliminates discrimination against companies that are locally in the wrong areas and are therefore not eligible for funding. These companies will receive aid under the rules applicable to investment by SMEs following a new proposal to provide incentives for the implementation of investments. The rules are in line with regional rules and only lower aid intensity is established. As mentioned above, the amendment is inseparably linked to the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Many experts have pointed out that it is too focused on short - term and attractive measures. Reform and structural measures that have longer-term effects and are crucial to the development breakthrough should, on the other hand, be too neglected. We have a similar thought in the SAB. At the same time, I should add that the proposal primarily opens up investments in priority sectors such as the automotive industry, the production of machinery, electrical equipment and the like, so we share the fear of the Commission of the State Council of over-focused investments in certain activities. However, we hope that investments that will receive monetary incentives under the present law will be included in a group of measures with longer-term effects and that the productivity of the Slovenian economy will be truly strengthened in this regard in the long term. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Investment in productive capital is an indispensable and unavoidable condition for economic progress. This is a matter of investing in the expansion and restoration of productive potential through the process of converting financial assets into elements of real capital. Investments play a double role in determining national income. The increase in investments means an increase in labour capital equipment. Such an increase in investment, however, has an impact on the increase in production or national income on the supply side. Investment consumption, on the other hand, is an important component of aggregate consumption. Its changes in multiplier processes have a significant impact on changes in the size of national income. Financial investments are only transfers of funds between economic operators. They do not change the size of national wealth. Secondly, real investments, which are the value of national income spent on building and stock equipment, are therefore divided into investments in fixed and fixed assets. Investment policy is a system of administrative and economic measures, receptions and instruments by which the State promotes investment activity, maintains the necessary level of investment and directs investment investments to achieve certain social and economic interests. Investment policy is an important part of an economic policy that has an important impact on economic and political decisions, aspirations and objectives. In developed economies, this is an integral part of the state intervention, which seeks to achieve the necessary level of economic growth, employment, high standard of living and a certain place in the world division of labour and international economic relations. The investment policy sets out the ratios between consumption and savings; sets out the economic development direction of the country, the identification of sectors and projects that will benefit from incentives; sets out the choice of incentives and incentives for certain investment firms and provides for the creation of conditions that enable and ensure the realisation of investment decisions. The recovery and resilience plan is a major macroeconomic measure to promote aggregate demand at the level of the European Union as a whole, targeting the consequences of the pandemic. The Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan was adopted by the Government this April and assessed positively by the European Commission in July. Amendments and additions to the Investment Promotion Act are an integral part of regulating the legal conditions for the use of available grants from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. In this case, the development area is smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and its second component: increasing productivity, a business-friendly environment for investment. Inside these other components are the financing of reform B activities: a more productive economy, a green and a digital transition. In order to make investments under reform B, the Recovery and Resistance Plan foresees €157.5 million in grants, of which €88.5 million under the Investment Promotion Act. Adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing the law means meeting the requirement to obtain €88.5 million of non-refundable investment money. Members of the Desus Group will therefore vote in favour of the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Investment Promotion Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u28	Once again a nice greeting to all present in the hall! The government has adopted the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is the basis for successful recovery after a stoppage due to the covida-19 pandemic. The European Commission has adopted a positive assessment of this plan, namely investment in a total value of €2.5 billion. In order for Slovenia to be eligible for these funds, the reforms of the Recovery and Resistance Plan must be implemented by 2026. Key reforms and investments and measures are in the area of green transition and digital transformation. Investment incentives to increase productivity amount to €88.5 million. In addition to these funds, cohesion funds must be taken into account. The structure of investments in Slovenia between 2010 and 2019 was not the most brilliant, this has to be recognised. There is still a lot of public investment in old technologies or sectors compared to those that are supposed to be sustainable, green and are expected to solve some problems in the future. Investment costs are lower than the costs that will arise if public investment is not made. There is too much money on the market, which is reflected in negative interest rates. Investors have trouble giving money because it's a negative interest rate. Large investors are looking for opportunities both in infrastructure and in public infrastructure – for example, investments in construction, which are also acquired by builders, which is a problem. The construction sector has the greatest multiplier effect because it is an integrator between committed activities and industrial activities. Even if we have the resources available, this does not mean that we will be able to generate new jobs. After the programme, investments in infrastructure and energy are promised. The model should be Austria and Italy, which are very effective in regulating the selection process of the contractor. They follow the guidelines of the European Commission which determine which operators we can choose. Who's the contractor? Do domestic companies or foreign companies receive the project? This is very important. The choice of impact as to how much of the construction project will remain at home and how many jobs we will be able to maintain at home. The choice of the contractor is very important. Contractors from foreign countries perform at a lower cost of labour. Of course, they offer about 30 percent lower prices at the expense of workers. How can we avoid doing so or avoid doing so? How do all developed European countries do this? The European Commission has indicated that domestic public investors may refuse offers from third countries that are not signatories to the GPA Agreement, public procurement agreements, public purchases that mainly exclude China and Turkey, the country that offers the price of looting. If I take away my thought of the law that even if the country receives financial incentives, it is important to note that there is a possibility that these resources may also be taken away from us by foreigners. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u30	That's a nice greeting for a word. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues, colleagues! The government has tabled a proposal to amend the Investment Promotion Act in the National Assembly. We have dealt with the law by means of an urgent procedure, as it is important that the law enters into force by the end of the year. The amendment to the Investment Promotion Act provides that investment State incentives for businesses focus on achieving higher added value to employees, investment in more advanced technology and automated business processes. Investments in the advanced automotive industry and mobility, the production of metal machinery and products, the food and drink sector, the information and communication technology sector, the production of electrical equipment, the pharmaceutical industry and the production of medical equipment and the promotion of knowledge-based services, nanotechnology, micro and nanoelectronics, photonics, sensors, plasma technologies, advanced materials, advanced manufacturing technologies, industrial biotechnology, artificial intelligence, etc. The law also establishes the legal basis for drawing funds from the recovery and resistance mechanism. 59 projects funded by grants from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan amounting to €88.5 million. The law pursues objectives such as: increasing productivity while ensuring sustainability and digitising business, increasing added value of products and services, creating jobs of higher value added, with particular emphasis on regional balance, which is of paramount importance for coherent regional development; strengthening global and local value chains and pursuing environmental sustainable objectives. Because of all the exposure, we will support the proposal in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Honorable representatives of the government! Yes, the proposal of the law will be dealt with following an urgent procedure, because the Government is catching the deadlines so that the Ministry will be able to issue the call from the Recovery and Resistance Plan in due time. They are in a hurry again, because they need to stick to the framework, because it depends on drawing on the money to co-finance entrepreneurial investment. However, there would be no need for a succinct adoption of the proposal if the Government prepared and did what it had to do in time; the plan had already been adopted in April and today we are the end of December. In the public hearing of the law, the Ministry has taken into account the proposal on the condition of the added value to the employee, namely that it is checked two years after the investment has been completed and not one year has been proposed. However, it did not accept the proposal that co-financing could also take into account investments that started before the application for incentives was submitted. The comments, as we know, have also been made that micro and small enterprises are abandoned because the investments of certain micro and small enterprises do not amount to one million in processing or half a million euro in service or development and research activities, so they cannot directly run for subsidies. Small businesses, as fast as they grow, represent important growth in the Slovenian economy, GDP growth and added value, and the government is already eroding them in the first call for a major source such as the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Under such conditions, we can only hope that the granting of investment subsidies to companies that reach these minimum investment thresholds will also affect productivity and growth not only of the beneficiaries of incentives, but also indirectly of the higher productivity of their subcontractors and suppliers, among whom micro and small enterprises are mentioned. Investments in the Slovenian economy are still lagging behind in comparison with other countries, and this is also an important reason to lagging behind in GDP growth or value added, as we reach only 82% of the average, even less than in 1982, when we reached 83%. The Slovenian economy is export-oriented, but is still based on supply chains of multinationals who see a business opportunity in Slovenia at lower costs, although educated but cheap labour. This, unfortunately, prevents faster value added growth, as work in value added represents the largest share. Let us not forget that already in 2018 we set ourselves the goal of EUR 60,000 of added value to the employee to get close to at least the average of the European Union, but today we are at 45 000. Therefore, our warning that the terms of the invitation to tender should also include small companies entering the market with high knowledge and the necessary technological equipment which could be obtained by applying for the tender. In principle, we welcome the proposal, because we know how important it is to accelerate the start-up of investments and that investments are those that make an important contribution to development, as they bring capital, access to distribution channels, technological, management and other knowledge, but so far the focus has been on subsidies for investment to promote job creation, as this has made an important contribution to raising employment and now the condition for creating new jobs is being eliminated. However, we know that opening new jobs is also the safest way to prevent or escape poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! The Investment Promotion Act is a roof law that provides for how the state promotes investment by businesses and private individuals. The law in force was adopted at the end of the previous call of the National Assembly and laid down a comprehensive framework of rules for all those who wish to obtain State aid for investments. The system law was created after the Magne Hoche case clearly showed that we need a uniform and general framework to support investment, whether domestic or foreign investors. The law so clearly sets out the types of investment and types of aid that the State can offer, in particular depending on the type of activity, the intensity of the industry, and in particular the number of jobs that the investment will create. The changed circumstances brought about by the covida-19 pandemic and its recovery attempts require adjustments to those frameworks. New forms of assistance, such as the European Recovery and Resistance Fund, are intended to create jobs and add value mainly in the field of digital and green technologies. In order to properly draw on and distribute these funds, the Government has prepared a proposal for amendments to the system law. At least it is commendable that, at least in this case, she did not opt for unbiased complementarity through marriage packages, but, as is correct, she prepared separate amendments to the law governing this area. The key innovations introduced by the amended law are mainly reflected in the definition of investments that can be encouraged by state and European money. In particular, investments that achieve environmental and sustainable objectives in priority sectors, advanced technologies and mobility, and sectors with high added value. A list of so-called excluded activities is also established; those whose activities have a markedly negative impact on the achievement of the objectives of the Green and Digital Transition. The objectives of the law are therefore to support the green transition and to increase the added value. Adjustments to the system law to promote investment are welcome and, of course, we need them quickly. We have been and are still very critical of the Government's proposal for a National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which we have repeatedly said is simply an equalization of development and progress with concrete and asphalt alone and that it pays little attention to investing in people. The aim of investment promotion is to create quality jobs in Slovenia. The proposal also notes that a shift from subsidising labour-intensive to subsidising capital-intensive industries is needed, as they also have higher added value. Despite good intentions, it is worrying that, under the conditions for obtaining subsidies, the Government wants to delete the condition of the number of jobs to be provided by the investment. The link between investments and new jobs has already been further broken since the performance assessment moves solely to indirect criteria such as added value, productivity and the like. Despite the principle of support for this direction, the Social Democrats note that the promotion of investment will be futile if it does not reflect in new and quality jobs. This, however, will require constant and focused effort, not just to supplement the law. With the proposal of the law, the Government is in a declaratory position to withdraw development funds quickly, but the current situation shows that the government is extremely unsuccessful in drawing funds from the EU. It is therefore questionable whether this government can provide an acceleration in this area. We will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will be presented as the last position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! The Government has adopted a Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is the basis for the use of the recovery and resilience mechanism. The law that is ahead of us is therefore some kind of action plan to draw on these funds. Above all, we are talking about automatedisation and digitisation of work processes. The novelties by deleting the conditions, creating new jobs and new conditions that take into account the added value in particular, shift industrial policy from labour-intensive to capital-intensive industries, with a focus on high-tech investments. The government is promoting a production automation policy with representatives of capital and European technocrats under the slogan “digitalisation”. This policy is completely uncritical and unilaterally described as a recipe for a better future than a recipe for the well-being of all of us. In Levica, of course, we do not oppose investing in technological development, but we stress that this development must be subject to public control and directed towards meeting social needs rather than leaving it to private people who are clearly driven by a profit motive. In addition, any technological development policy must be accompanied by a strong social policy capable of timely remedying all potential socially harmful effects of automation. This aspect is completely absent in investment strategies written for the Government by private corporations, namely Deloitte and capital representatives, the Economic Chamber. The automation of production therefore has a markedly selective effect on the labour market. It contributes to the growth of the highly skilled workforce segment and, at the same time, to the erosion of the professions of semi-skilled and unskilled labour. Therefore, the revenues of this and the employment opportunities are being further reduced. New technologies also require greater flexibility in the labour market. In order to adapt businesses to the dynamics of new technologies and to increase competition, capital representatives have been promoting labour flexibility for decades. From the worker's point of view, flexibility always means a greater intensity of work, flexibility always being a luxury for the worker; that is, uncertainly, non-permanent employment with a strongly limited set of labour rights. The development of new information and telecommunications technologies also creates new methods of control and repression. With the help of new technologies, the control of capitalists over their own workers and the control of governments over their own citizens are being stepped up. A key criticism of the present proposal in Levica is that the investment strategy is actually determined by representatives of capital, in this case a study of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, a private property representing only a handful of employers, and on the basis of the private corporation Deloitte. We are wondering where in the process of developing these development strategies the Government includes workers' representatives; that is, 99 per cent of everything it is in the economy and what it creates in the economy. There is nothing wrong with technological development as such. It is harmful when the monopoly is adopted by capital representatives and by government clicks. The representatives of the capital of the automation and digitisation processes are, of course, not problematic because they are profiting from them, but the same is true for the Government, so technological development must be subjected to public control and directed towards meeting the social needs, not the partial interests of the handful of capitalists. The proposed law does not contain these key guardians, so Members and Members of the Left will not support it. We will oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no further amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law supplementing the Holiday and Leisure Act in the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and three Members with the first signed Janjo Slug. At its 37th meeting, on 26 November 2021, the draft law considered the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as the working body of the mother. However, since the committee of articles of the bill was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I now give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The first one gets the word, Mr Vojko Starović. He will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u38	Madam President, thank you for your word. A colleague and a colleague! The proposal to amend the law before us foresees that if the calendar holiday of the Republic of Slovenia, which are also working on a day off, falls on Saturday and Sunday, one part of the day off is transferred on the next working day, that is Monday. That proposal concerns four different calendar consecutive holiday sets, 1st and 2nd January, 1st and 2nd May, 31st October and 1st November and 25th and 26th December. The applicant explains that, according to his calculations, the shift of the work of the holiday day to Monday for each of those holiday seasons would be ongoing once every six years. The fact is that Slovenia, within the European Union, is already moving away from the average when it comes to some holidays, which are also part of the day. Some of the holidays are unique, especially on January 2nd and May 2nd. In addition, we must be aware that the purpose of the holiday days is not to provide an additional day off, but rather to mark an individual event or day, with individual holiday days being further defined by consensus as part of the day off. I do not want to debate whether such a change would have a positive impact on certain sectors of the economy and, again, put additional burden on others. However, I wonder whether such a change is really motivated by sincere desire or by popularism. I am speaking, of course, in the light of the fact that we are in a pre-election period in which, by chance, both past and upcoming holidays fall on Saturday and Sunday. Members of the SAB proposal were not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Good-bye! In the Republic of Slovenia we have 20 state and church holidays, 13 of which are free work days. Compared to other European countries, we are in the number of days off from the European average of 12 days. The draft law, which was previously rejected by the competent committee, provided for the transfer of the day off to Monday in case the so-called two-day package holidays were to be listed for the weekend. We have four such package holidays, the first two days of New Year's Eve, the first two days of May, the day of reform and the day of the dead in November, and Christmas and the day of independence and unity in December. In the year to come, we would gain only one additional day on the proposal of the law. In this year’s year, which has already expired, we would have obtained, for example, two days. Therefore, in the Desus Group we do not see any added value and such a way of proposing holidays. In our opinion, there would be no added value in the economy, more specifically in tourism, in hospitality and in the field of meetings and cultural events industry, to which the applicants refer. Compared to only three European countries, we see that they have a way of passing holidays, with two of them recording less holidays than our country; Spain 8 and Ireland 10. Let me mention the recent failed attempt of a similar proposal in the Parliament of our neighbouring country of Croatia, which also records the same number of holidays as we do. The annual calendar shall be 365 or 366 days per year. This year we will count 365 days, of which the working days for the 40-hour working week are 225 holidays, which are free days, and 6.7 days fell on weekends. Next year is slightly more generous, as it falls on Saturday and Sunday 5 holidays, so we have 8 days off from 13 days, and in 2023 only January 1st and December 25th will fall on Sunday, which means 11 holidays that will take place during the week. If I look back, it's been a bad year for the holidays last year, because it's been six days for the weekend. In 2019 it fell only one day at the end of the week. So with the holidays, we just collide, in which year we're home less, in which year we're more and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u42	In today's amendment to the Holidays and Work Act, we have proposed that if two consecutive holidays, which are also part of the day off, come on Saturday and Sunday, one day off will be transferred to the next working day, i.e. Monday. In Slovenia we have four such calendar consecutive holidays, 1st and 2nd of January, 1st and 2nd of May, 31st of October and 1st of November and 25th and 26th of December. When a day off comes on Saturday or Sunday, employees have no extra day off. If we check the statistics, we can quickly find out that there were eight holidays last year. There'll be seven next year. And this year, about the number of holidays that fall right on the weekend, it is a record year, because we have 13 holidays, which are free days, and of which there are 9, that is two thirds this year, on Saturday or Sunday. We believe that our amendment to the law would respect and guarantee workers and workers their basic right to rest and leisure, which they can devote to themselves and their neighbors. This change would have a positive impact on family and social life and would have the highest social benefits. The working environment is extremely intensive for us, so that the measure would also contribute positively to increasing the motivation and satisfaction of employees, and this in their increased productivity. In its latest forecast of Slovenia's economic movements this year, the Bank of Slovenia forecasted a growth of 5.2 per cent, which is 2.1 per cent higher than expected in mid-year. For the following year, the growth forecast increased from 4.5% to 4.8%. A similar trend can also be seen in the Commission's forecasts, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the International Monetary Fund and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Based on these positive forecasts by domestic and international financial institutions, we believe that this kind of addition to the law would represent a symbolic and substantive message that the fruits of the improved state and economy should be enjoyed by employees in the future. We have known such holiday arrangements in our former country, and today they have similar arrangements in some European countries, such as Belgium, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Serbia and Russia, as well as in some other countries around the world, such as Australia and Japan. The adoption of the proposed day-to-day shift on Monday would also have a positive impact on certain sectors of the economy, particularly those most affected by the covida-19 epidemic, i.e. the tourism, catering and cultural activities and the industry. Therefore, the representatives of these industries are in favour of the proposed measures. These sectors, severely affected by the epidemic, are not expected to reach a pre-crisis level until 2024, according to estimates by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. It is therefore all the more important to take more such measures to restart these economic activities and put them back on the old tracks. Unfortunately, there was not enough support for our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u44	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, once again, another third greeting here today. Of course, hello to everyone here in the hall! The work as a value in Slovenia is only a pale memory. More and more it seems to be looking for ways to get the money as quickly as possible. And if that involves a week or so, that's all the better. The added value of the worker has been standing for some time, which we cannot say for various social transfers. It is right that the State helps those who cannot and are not to blame themselves. Unfortunately, there is very little in these percentages of social transfers. Recently, there was an initiative by certain Members to be a worker only 6 hours in order to allow people to rest more in the workplace. It is true that in recent years the workers have changed greatly and that the classical work from 6 to 14 hours is no longer available. However, a number of other developments have changed and, above all, it stresses the rights of all possible groups, and obviously duties are no longer important. In the spirit of the right to rest and leisure, we deal with the law. I'm seriously wondering how we've been through the holidays that fell on the weekend. We have 13 working days in Slovenia, which places us on the European average. The system, which is intended to be introduced by the law in question, or the proposal that work be carried over on weekends on the following day, has only three countries in Europe, namely Spain, Ireland and Lithuania. Slovenians are very much liked when talking about benefits, we compare them with other European countries. Maybe we could take a slow look at how they have their responsibilities in other countries and whose rights our citizens have, but they don't have them elsewhere. I believe it's the very idea that Mondays would be free if the holidays came on the weekend, liked by people, and would extend the celebration for a day or so. However, consideration must be given to how this will affect the economy. I don't know if they weigh one day of celebrations the fact that someone will lose their job or the company will have higher costs. It is also a fact that people along borders will be very happy to make use of this time to visit trade in neighbouring countries. So, who else would this one day help? Workers and workers are smaller, and the economy is smaller. Police, health care and whatever it is, it's got to work. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u46	Your Honor! The area of holidays and holidays is regulated by the Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia, Official Gazette No. 112/05, officially consolidated texts 52/10, 40/12, ZUJF 19/15, 83/16 and 92/20, hereinafter referred to as the ZPPD, and fall within the scope of the State regime, which includes general State acts and symbols. We are of the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, as it has also been established on the competent working body, that the law is not suitable for further consideration. I would also like to draw attention to the comparative legal arrangements in the Member States of the European Union, from which it follows that in most EU Member States holidays falling on Saturday or Sunday are not passed on to the next working day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. The proposed novel of the Holidays and Work Act in the Republic of Slovenia proposed that if two consecutive calendar holidays, which are also part of the day, were to come on Saturday and Sunday, one of them would be transferred to the next working day, so on Monday. With an additional day off, employees would be allowed an additional day off for rest and leisure, which they could devote to themselves and their families, which would have a positive impact on the social and family life of employees. It would also affect their higher level of motivation for work and satisfaction in the workplace. In Slovenia, there is still a partially intensive environment where employees face various forms of pressure at work, among which meeting high labour standards is one of the most common forms of pressure as soon as possible. As a result, many manufacturing and service industries have a high rate of burnout or injury at work, and this ultimately leads to a higher number of hospital workers. We believe that the Social Democrats have warned governments and employers that the extra part of the day off would be an additional cost to the employer due to the loss of working hours, thereby reducing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, unjustifiable and unjustified. If we think that we will increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy only by working several hours a year, we will soon realize that, in the productivity and competitiveness of another country, we will be overtaken both on the left and on the right. There are major technological changes ahead of us as a result of the rapid deployment of robots in production and the accelerated digitisation of work processes, which is why there is even greater pressure on jobs, as many of them will no longer be needed. Traditional manufacturing professions will disappear, and if we do not approach this challenge with soundness of mind, we may be able to face the long-term perspective of high unemployment very quickly. It is already true that countries with the highest productivity in Europe are not countries where employees work the most time, but work better and smarter. In some countries, such as Spain, they even introduce incentives for voluntary involvement of businesses in the 32-hour worker scheme. We already have positive examples in Slovenia of the introduction of a 6-hour worker in individual businesses in the economy. All these cases of reduced working time are one thing in common: it constantly improves working methods and technology and allows employees to devote time to their families, sports, hobbies to all that we enjoy in life. At the same time, short-term full-time work is also a response to the occurrence of abstention, presentation and burnout among employees. Better mental and physical health of employees contributes to greater satisfaction in the workplace and thus to greater labour productivity of employees and not least the competitiveness of individual companies or countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will be next in line to present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, again! With a marked amendment to the Holiday Act, the proposer shall open the possibility that, if two consecutive calendar holidays, which are at the same time both parts of the day off, come on Saturday and Sunday, one of them, that is to say working on a day off, shall be transferred to the following working day. The law would therefore only have effect if on 1st and 2nd of January or 1st and 2nd of May it had come exactly on Saturday and Sunday, this would have happened in the new year 2022, so the present proposal would have provided a free Monday on 3rd of January. In May of 2022, it doesn't come to this, and big night, and Easter Monday, anyway, always falls on Sundays and Mondays. The next time the law would take effect in 2027, on Saturdays and Sundays on May 1st and 2nd, and in 2028 again on January 1st and 2nd, then again nothing until 2032. Thus, until 2027, one part of the day is free and three parts are free until 2032 in 11 years. Modesty. We are in favor of the method in Levica, which is called the Monday holidays, but we stress that it must be comprehensive. In this way, the only working party in the country understands the reduction of workers, shorter working weeks, longer weekends, more holidays and more work days off than the necessary and inevitable civilisation step forward. While the capital was inconceivable and inconceivable, in the past it was inconceivable what we now understand as normal; for example, an eight-year-old worker, a summer vacation, a free weekend, paid a hospital leave, maternity leave, parental leave, for example, a ban on child labour and so on. All these gains have been won in the past by various advanced social and labour movements, socialists, communists and anarchists, Communists and anarchists — mostly. We can thank them for whatever good we have today on the list of workers, citizens and human rights. As a society, especially in the light of technological progress and the automation of work processes, we are responsible for the wider scope of labour rights, where free time must be held by the top seats on the scale. In the technologically advanced capitalist regime, the worker can be quickly afraid because the new computer, the new machine, the new tool to achieve the same result takes less time and the worker’s work and time to the capitalist will be quickly overrun. However, under the same circumstances, a worker can be cheered up in an advanced, socialist regime, as the same earnings and productivity will result from less time invested. He will be able to devote more free time to where he wants to go. Since the worker here is the co-owner of the company himself, he will not be afraid of his job and his survival, only have more free time. Business management is therefore the safest alternative for workers at the time of technological progress and is more necessary than ever. Back to the proposal. With respect to the intention of the proposer and the motioners in Levica, we regard the current proposal as insufficiently ambitious. It would be a complete solution if working a day off falls on Sunday and moves on Monday. Pika. This would also ensure a technically equal number of work days off each year, which we will take care of in Levica when we are in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Ms Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will be the last to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. The Group of Members and Members with the first signed Janjo Slug proposed to supplement the legal arrangements of the holidays in the Republic of Slovenia in a way that if two consecutive holidays, which are also part of the day off, come on Saturday and Sunday, one part of the day off will be transferred on the next working day, i.e. Monday. A similar arrangement, as proposed by the Group of Members, was known before 1991, when, in the event that one of the two days of that time fell on Sunday, the first day of the next working day after those two days was evidently a strong stake after the former Yugoslavia! The current law provides that a public holiday or a day off coming on Sunday shall not be carried out on the following working day. As a result, the proposal of Members has an increased number of days away from work due to the celebration, which means an additional drop in working hours or an increase in obligations for employers, thus affecting the reduced competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Even in most Member States of the European Union, holidays that fall on Saturdays and Sundays are not passed on to the next working day. The transfer of holidays is inconsistent with the purpose of holidays and holidays, which are in the celebration or marking of events that are legally defined as holidays and holidays, but not in the extension of paid absences from work in the following working week in cases where the holiday or work day coincides with the usual weekly rest day. The employee’s psychophysical and working abilities are rested or restored on annual leave, and the annual leave days are not included in the justified absence of work, including absence from work due to the celebration. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, we want Slovenia to move forward in its development, to strengthen the economy, but not to return to the former Yugoslavia when we had this arrangement with the popular proposals before the elections next spring. Currently the biggest challenge of the Slovenian economy could focus on the issue of productivity. Despite many good results in other indicators on productivity, Slovenia has long been behind the European Union average for a fifth. A higher standard, higher wages and development levels at country level, such as Austria and Germany, will not be possible to achieve otherwise than by increasing productivity. In order to do so, it will be necessary to create an environment in which the economy can invest and create eternal added value. Since the amendment of the Holidays and Work Act does not follow this objective, in New Slovenia - Christian Democrats voted against changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure for the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENT OF THE PAYMENT SYSTEM LAW IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR IN THE context of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Ferenc Horváth and Felice Žiža. In order to further explain the draft law, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Ferenc Horváth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Tishtet Hölgyim és Uraim, mindenkit juice sherettel köszöntök! Un cordiale saluto and tutti! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia grants special rights to indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in the territory where they live. The exercise of these rights is set out in more than 200 legal and sub-legislative acts adopted by the National Assembly in various periods, mostly in the first half of our 30-year-old independent country. Despite good intentions in the spirit of positive discrimination, the practice has repeatedly shown that the legislation adopted in the everyday lives of both indigenous national communities has not been properly implemented and therefore has not produced the desired effect and results. Each time the members of both indigenous national communities in the National Assembly have always sought to improve the situation of both indigenous national communities, which, of course, also included the tendency to amend that part of the legislation, which in practice has not proved to be effective enough or has repeatedly failed to comply with the letter of the law and the expectation of both ministries and not both indigenous national communities. Attempts to amend part of the legislation or even the adoption of a statutory law that would improve the situation in the field of the provision and exercise of the specific rights of indigenous national communities have not always been successful, as it was not possible to ensure the necessary majority in the National Assembly. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Public Sector Wage System provides for an amendment to Article 28 of the latter Act, which regulates the bilingual supplement system. Members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities decided to take this step at the initiative of the directors of educational institutions, journalists and advisors for the Italian and Hungarian languages at the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia, as it eliminates certain imbalances in the allocation of the level of bilingual allowance for employees in different institutions doing the same or similar work. The structure of the bilingual allowance, which has been unchanged for 17 years, has caused injustice to those mentioned above. The proposal to amend the article of the law introduces an amendment whereby a bilingual supplement of 12 to 15 per cent of the basic salary will also be paid to principals of bilingual kindergartens, primary and secondary schools and kindergartens, primary and secondary schools with Italian learning languages, professional staff of the Institute of Education, i.e. advisers for Hungarian or Italian language, and journalists who create a weekly in Hungarian as public servants. The change relates to the amount of the bilingual allowance for less than 30 employees in the said institutions, which, after the previous calculations, amounts to approximately EUR 70 000 of additional costs at the annual level, thus not a higher financial burden for the state budget. All institutions are financed by the ministries and the Nationality Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your support. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. I therefore give the floor to Vice-President Predrag Bakovic to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 28th session. 12. as a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which was submitted by Mr Ferenc Horváth and Felice Žiž to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The committee was attended by the proposaler Ferenc Horváth, the representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration, the representative of the State Council, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Director of the Bilingue High School Lendava Silvia Hadinjak Prendl and the Director of the Central School Pietro Coppo Alberto Scheriani. In the introductory explanation, Commissioner Ferenc Horváth said that the aim of the bill is to eliminate the distinction between the payment of the bilingual allowance between public servants employed in the educational institutions of both national communities and between employees in the public sector of RTV Slovenia and journalists in the printed media of both national communities. The government gave a written opinion on the proposal for a law, which concludes that the proposal supports the law and that the representative of the Ministry of Public Administration has not further explained the opinion. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. Her representative said that the Law-Legal Service had drawn up an extensive opinion and had also summarized it below. It explained that the constitutional decisions that specifically define the duty of the State to protect and guarantee the rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities give rise to the fundamental purpose of protecting and preserving the identity of the national communities. The blood law, which would cover all the specific rights of the national communities in Slovenia in its entirety, is not adopted, but is regulated by the wider legislation. However, the right to use their language and writing and the obligations relating to bilinguality shall be governed by all procedural provisions relating thereto. In accordance with the Constitution, legislation gives special weight to education and education in the area of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and its members. In this segment bilinguality is of particular importance and the current legislation therefore distinguishes between education and education providers and those for whom the knowledge and use of official languages is required. This division also results in the Public Sector Wage System Act, which divides the entities into two indents in the applicable second paragraph of Article 28. The first indent concerns the whole area of education and education, not the whole area of education and education, but within it the activities of education and education, which take into account bilinguality as a learning language. However, the second indent refers to all other areas where bilinguality is required as an official or agreed language. On this basis there are also different heights of the additive. The legislative and legal service in its written opinion recalls that the proposed amendment may create a new inequality with regard to entities referred to in the first and second indents. The committee was also attended by the director or principal of bilingual secondary school, as has already been said, who expressed dissatisfaction with the existing system, which provides for administrators a lower allowance than teachers. Teachers and principals alike have to meet the same conditions for work, and many principals also teach and thus participate in the education process. In the debate, some members of the Committee expressed their opinion that the proposal for a law would undermine the structure of the pay system and create new inequalities and destabilisation of the escaped system. They expressed the view that the adoption of such a proposal might also lead to the opening of questions on the payment of bilingual allowances in other public sector professions. On the contrary, other members of the Committee considered that the proposal was appropriate and that the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups adequately addressed the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service and addressed the shortcomings. The proposed amendment thus eliminates the anomalies, unjustified differentiation and ambiguity and corrects the concrete imbalance in the pay system, with a minimum extension of the round of beneficiaries of the bilingual allowance within a maximum range that does not represent a major financial burden. In the debate, the proposer and the representative of the Ministry of Public Administration rejected the findings of some Members and stressed that the round of beneficiaries of the bilingual allowance extends to those public servants who use both languages at the same level of complexity to perform comparable work within the same profession or within the same activity, so it is appropriate to ensure the same amount of the allowance. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an amendment to Article 1 of the SDS, NSI, SMC. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the adoption of the amendment, has been prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr Boštjan Jambrovič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, please, you have the floor, and I ask for the speaking desk.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u58	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government supports the proposed amendments to Article 28 of the SAA, which gives effect to the agreement reached between the Government and Members of the national communities. Among many tasks, it also includes a commitment to a fairer regime of a bilingual allowance in areas where indigenous Italian and Hungarian national minorities live. With the amendment tabled by the members of the coalition, which was confirmed by the home working body of the National Assembly, the draft law submitted to the National Assembly by the Member of the National Communities not only improved but also eliminates the key issue of the Legislative and Legal Service, which referred to the overly open field of eligibility for a bilingual allowance at work, when it comes to the highest level of knowledge of the language of the national community in the performance of public tasks. The proposal to amend Article 28 of the SAA, which is before you, deals precisely with the question of which categories of public sector employees are eligible for the maximum bilingual allowance, i.e. between 12 and 15 per cent of the basic salary. In order to ensure equal treatment of employees who are required to use the language of the national community at the most demanding level in their work, the proposed law, in addition to teachers and other professional workers in education and education, and journalists of RTV Slovenia, will also be given the same amount of this supplement by directors, professional workers at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education and journalists of printed national media. These workers must also actively use bilingualism in their work, and the adoption of this law would only correct the injustice that we have witnessed since the introduction of the new public sector wage system in 2008. The adoption of this law does not introduce any new allowances into the public sector wage system, as this bilingual allowance has been in place all the time and is allocated EUR 4.3 million at the annual level. However, in the event of a vote to adopt this law, you will contribute to a fairer regulation of this supplement within the education and education activities and in the journalistic ranks in the area of living national minorities, where the knowledge of the Hungarian and Italian national communities is crucial not only to the realization of the guaranteed rights of national communities, but also to the successful public service of citizens and citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Public Sector Wage System Act was adopted in 2002 following previous long-term negotiations and coordination. The main considerations were the establishment of a transparent pay system and the elimination of wage imbalances. Can we say today that this view was fulfilled? The answer is itself offered if we know that today the proposed amendment is the 30th in line since its adoption. Warnings of opacity, disproportionateity, deficiencies and a series of anomalies in terms of the comparability of wages have become constant. Therefore, it is not an exaggerated conclusion that the observations were made in contravention of reality and reachability. The complexity and complexity of matters are too extensive, and experience shows that they cannot be regulated in a single law. This amendment refers to a bilingual allowance for certain public sector employees, increasing the bilingual allowance for management staff in educational and educational institutions from 3 to 6 per cent of the basic salary to 12 to 15 per cent of the basic salary and extending the range of beneficiaries to employees in the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education and to journalists of printed national community media. The financial implications for the state budget were estimated at EUR 187 000 following the initial proposal. However, amendments to the basic text of the amendment have reduced to €70,000 per year. They apply to 25 public servants. Members of the Desus Group will support the bill. We know that this decision can lead to interpretations in the direction of additional disproportionateity and non-conformity. We are convinced, however, that the removal of existing illogicalities from empirically established everyday practice is therefore more important than the possible interpretations and insults of those who are always dissatisfied and those who see conspiracy under each stone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings back here in the hall! In Slovenia we have two indigenous national communities, Italian and Hungarian. Our country in its territory protects and guarantees the rights of both national communities under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and international treaties. They shall also have the right to express their nationality and the right to use their language and writing. They also have the right to education and education in their own language. Nationality education is thus systematically funded by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In the areas of Koper, Izola, Piran, Ankaran, Lendava, Dobrovnik, Šalovci, Moravian Toplice and Hodoš, in which the Italian and Hungarian national communities live, the official language is also Italian and Hungarian. The public authorities, local authorities and public authorities must communicate with them in their language in order to facilitate their agreement. Public servants, who also have to meet the conditions of knowledge of the language of the national community in the course of their work, receive an allowance for bilinguality. The latter is set out in Article 28 of the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act. The amount of the bilingual allowance is different and amounts to up to 6% of the basic salary for judges and prosecutors, from 3% to 6% for other civil servants, from 12% to 15% for teachers and other professionals in primary and secondary education, as well as educators and other professionals in kindergartens, and RTV Slovenia journalists. All well and good, but we were disturbed in the Slovenian National Party by the fact that these ranges are not proportional or that there are very large differences between them. That's not exactly fair, motivational for a certain profile of public servants. It is true, though, that some use the Congregation Language in their work, while others use it more informally or at an agreed level. In practice, it has been shown that other public servants who also use both official languages in their work should be entitled to the bilingual allowance, but have unfortunately been overlooked. By means of a bill under which Ferenc Horvát and Felice Žiža are signed, the blame shall be paid to the directors, their deputies, the technical and administrative staff and the educational advisers. We believe that they deserve it justifiably because they use Italian or Hungarian on a daily basis at a high level of difficulty. We are also inclined to extend the circle to public servants who are employed in the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education and to journalists of the printed media of the national communities. We must not forget that they are doing comparable work within the same profession, activities where the same level of complexity and the use of bilingual business is required. The wage system in the public sector is now particularly on strike, and it is therefore appropriate to increase wages for those in health and social care who are in this chaotic state of health in the first battle lines to prevent many deaths. For the end little for a joke for real; thank God we do not yet have an Albanian national community in the area of certain municipalities where we would talk about a bilingual allowance for these public servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you, too. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Ferenc Horváth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again, good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Tishtet Hölgyim és Uraim, my egyser mindenkit juice sherettel köszöntök! Un cordiale saluto and tutti! The Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities, as a proponent of the law, supports the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which refers to the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 28 of that Act. An initiative to amend that law was made more than ten years ago. It was discussed on various working bodies of different state bodies and did not come before decision makers in the National Assembly. Two-lingual allowance of between 12 and 15 per cent of the basic salary will, in addition to the new proposal, be paid to professional staff of the Institute of Education, i.e. advisors for Hungarian or Italian, which professionally forms the field of education of the national communities, and journalists who create the Népújság weekly as public servants. In agreement with the Ministry of Public Administration, we have prepared a proposal for an amendment to that Article in the parliamentary group. Since the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly was not in favour of the original text, the text of Article 28 was appropriately adapted by the amendment tabled after consulting the representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration and taking into account the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the national mixed area, the Italian and Hungarian languages are also official. In order for members of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities to exercise their constitutional right to use their mother tongue in a national mixed area, the use of both Hungarian and Italian or Slovenian languages must be provided by constitution and legislation. Therefore, the level of language knowledge for each job in public administration in these areas is also laid down in a separate act on the systematisation of jobs, for which the said employees receive an allowance for bilinguality. The structure of the bilingual allowance has been unchanged for 19 years, although the principals of bilingual schools and schools with Italian learning have repeatedly proposed a change. The cow's school law mainly sees them as team leaders and school trials. However, directors are not only teaching heads and business bodies of the public institution, but are communicating with the Ministry of Education, the Institute of Education and other institutions, including co-founders of institutions, namely the municipal self-government national communities, the supervisory organisations of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, leading cross-border projects and working with educational institutions in both Hungary and Italy. In particular, students continue to be taught in Hungarian and Italian, so directors are entitled to a bilingual supplement of between 12 and 15 per cent of the basic salary as teachers. Quality bilingual education and education in the Italian and Hungarian learning languages are also professionally counsellors of the Regional Units of the Institute for Education, who also deserve a higher bilingual supplement. [[Incomprehensible]] This also applies to public servants of printed media in the language of the national community. In the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities, we propose and support the proposal for a new Law on the Public Sector Wage System, thereby eliminating long-standing injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Janez Moškrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a bill amending the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. More specifically, the proposed amendment is linked to the second paragraph of Article 28 of the Public Sector Wage System Act. The full article discusses bilingual allowances in an area where the Italian and Hungarian languages are also the official language and the knowledge of the language of the national community is a condition for the performance of the work or function. The Article refers to the amount of allowances to public servants in those areas. The purpose of the legislative amendment is to regulate inequalities between teachers and principals, as well as journalists from the public service of RTV and journalists from print media, which are part of the public sector, and it is therefore understandable that the rapporteurs are fellow Members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. The amount of allowances for this group shall be specified in the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 28 already mentioned and shall range from 12 to 15 per cent of the basic salary. Therefore, they wanted to align managers with teachers and journalists of printed media with officials of the public service RTV. On the original proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service had a broad comment, so in the coalition parties we prepared an amendment to the proposed amendment, where we added only the words “director” to the original text of the first indent of the proposed paragraph, “renewers of printed media”. We are confident that such a change will not undermine the system of wage supplements in the public sector. Moreover, with the support of members of the coalition and government under the leadership of Janez Janša, there is a relationship with representatives of the Italian and Hungarian communities in Slovenia and with all those who care for the welfare of the national communities. The incomprehensible debate of some members of the opposition was incomprehensible. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are committed to eliminating all inequalities in Slovenian legislation, so we will unanimously confirm the proposed law amending Article 28 of the Law on the System of Public Wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you, too. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u68	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! Let me start by saying that in the LMŠ we support the rights of national communities in Slovenia and also solutions that represent a greater extent of their rights. However, we do not support the partial interventions brought by this law. It should be said that the Coalition for Consideration on the parental committee has drafted an amendment to follow the comments of the PSC. In fact, the comments were taken into account only in that part that the entitlement to the bilingual allowance would not extend to all public servants, but would only be received by professional workers. Everything else was, to say the least, overlooked. Inequality between entities is, of course, not eliminated or, in fact, even increased by this law. The proposers of the bill have not even tried to respond to comments, but to correct the disproportionateities and inequalities that are already visible far away. As is clear from the proposal, the highest bilingual allowance should only be for those who carry out education and education, where bilinguality is taken into account as a learning language, i.e. a book language, a choir language, but not for other public servants, although they work in the field of education and education. It is not clear why press journalists are included in the first indent. At the same time, this change also puts journalists, employees, for example, at the STA, who also deal with printed media and are journalists of printed media with special obligations towards the national community; it is not in the proposal. Public servants in the RS Institute for Education also have no place in the first indent, as they only use language at the level of the general contractual language and should therefore be classified in the second indent setting out the lower allowance. The agreement between the Government of Janez Janša and the Members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, to which they also refer, concerns only directors, educators and employees at the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, this agreement is only partially relevant, as the bill is a much broader framework of entities than is proposed. And of course, in her broad opinion, the ZPS explained this very well on the seven sides, but it remained overlooked, as it has many times before in this government. We are not even aware of the opinion of union representatives and local communities on the proposal for a law, since the discussions with them have obviously not been carried out at all, although we know that trade unions play a very important role whenever the rules affecting the rights of workers in the labour relationship change. In addition to what we have already said in the LMC, we believe that the adoption of such a proposal would lead to new proposals for the payment of bilingual allowances in other professions in the public sector. The case of police officers — why, then, did you not include the police? And if we pull another partition — what about a sign - language supplement? None of the teachers and principals receive this supplement, although they also use sign language in their work. I'm just figuratively or very plastically showing what was actually going on with this law. In addition, the bilingual allowance shall be set at a percentage. The supplement ranges from 12 to 15 per cent of the basic salary, which means that the salary is not small, amounts to about four wage classes. Four pay grade! And, of course, a public servant with a higher salary receives a higher allowance than the one in the lower pay grade, resulting in additional inequality. This means that directors who are included in the first indent of this provision will receive a significantly higher allowance than teachers who actually work with children. In the LMŠ we believe that there are very big problems in the pay system, but we cannot address them in such a partial way, these anomalies are simply not appropriate. We need to see what else needs to be changed. It is clear that the coalition needs the support of the bill's proponents for its existence, so, of course, it supports this bill without any doubt, and we can say that it is a pre-election candy or candy of this government, so we cannot support it in the LMŠ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Short, but by means of the service system, a significant amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act, which was tabled by the representatives of the Hungarian and Italian national communities in Slovenia, relates to the elimination of the distinction in the payment of the bilingual allowance between public servants employed in the educational institutions of both national communities and employees in the public service of RTV Slovenia and journalists of the printed media of both national communities, cannot be supported in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. At the meeting of the Committee, a broad debate took place mainly because the representative of the Government did not know or wished to comment on the amendment of the law and to respond to the relevant warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as set out in the broad opinion. Every time we talk about the wage system in the public sector, we are generally cautious. Also because any partial intervention in the wage system of public servants has already been disrupted by such a weak system, especially when a written agreement between the Government and representative public sector unions is bypassed or disregarded, on the basis of which any change in the salary system must be discussed in a negotiating group or commission. The opinion of the Government shows that the Government also supports the proposal because the proposal for a new law is based on a signed agreement on the cooperation of Members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in June 2020. In the meantime, the social dialogue between trade unions and the government has been lacking for a year and a half; however, it would still be needed, particularly in difficult epidemic situations and the failure to manage the epidemic. We support the Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia, and we also recognise all the rights deriving from Article 64 of the Constitution, but we oppose the amendment of the Law on the System of Salaries of Public Servants, which has been submitted to the legislative procedure by representatives of both minorities. The proposed novelty has bypassed the agreement between the Government and the representative public sector unions on the basis of which any change in the salary system should be discussed on the negotiating committee. Finally, the proposed amendment creates new inequalities within national minorities and destabilizes the already fragile service system. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! In the first place, let me make it clear that we do not oppose the rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in Levica. On the contrary, we all agree that it is necessary to ensure the exercise of all their constitutional rights, but in a meaningful, correct and fair manner, not in a partial way, such as this case. In itself, there is sufficient eloquent fact that the Legislative and Legal Service has submitted seven pages of concrete substantive comments on the 33 words of this bill. The MPs of the Hungarian and Italian national communities hold the current government's air straw. With the government, 20 million have made a difficult secret agreement, the content of which has recently been disclosed by the media, and in return they unconditionally support the government, even though many times to the detriment of both smaller and all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We are not talking here about some common agreement between coalition partners, which usually contains a set of measures, such as fair tax reform, prevention of the environmental crisis and so on. This is about specific projects; also about what we are talking about today. This is as if, for example, the future coalition would conclude an agreement and agree to build a road in Kočev for its colleague Baković, and for its colleague Korazi we will raise better salaries for the librarians, because it was his area of work and for Tina Hefferle a higher legal rate, because it is her profession and so on. This is absolutely unacceptable. Due to the disputed agreement, even the Italian Union, the umbrella organisation of Italian nationalities living in Slovenia and Croatia, has distanced itself from the Member of the Italian National Community. The draft law concerns a bilingual allowance belonging to public servants, judges and state prosecutors working in the territory of the municipalities in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, where the Italian or Hungarian language is also an official language, provided that the knowledge of the language of the national community is a condition for the performance of the work or function. This supplement is set out in the current law in three categories, up to 6% of the basic salary for judges and prosecutors, 3 to 6% of the basic salary for other civil servants and 12 to 15% of the basic salary for teachers and other professionals in primary and secondary education, and for educators and other professionals in kindergartens, and for journalists in the public service of RTV Slovenia. Today's proposal concerns only this first category, a maximum allowance of between 12 and 15 per cent of the salary that would be extended by the Member of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in accordance with the agreement concluded with Janša to directors, assistant directors, professional and administrative officials and journalists of the printed national media. The problem with the current regulation is that the supplement is fixed as a percentage of the basic salary. And here is the question of whether the principal and the teacher in this case are in the same position. The principal’s basic salary varies between the 47th and 53rd grades and the teacher’s salary starts at the 32nd grade. So someone who has to use two languages every day and all day will receive from 122 to 320 euro in additions, while directors will receive from 321 to 507 euros for occasional learning and contact with students and parents in the language of conversation. The worst paid principal with a certain lowest bilingual allowance, i.e. 12 percent of the basic salary, will receive more than an older teacher with a full supplement. And that's exactly what the Law-Legal Service warns about. In Levica, we are skeptical of the proposed solution because it does not remove the unfair regime, but the existing regulation of work is even more unjust. The solutions in this marriage proposal are the most guilty to the worst paid, who receive up to five times the lower supplement than the best paid. Therefore, we will not support the proposal in Levica, nor will we oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u74	Vice President, thank you for your word. The proposal for amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which we are considering today, was tabled by members of the Ferenc Horváth and Felice Žiža National Communities. The proposed novelty extends the range of beneficiaries to the highest bilingual allowance, ranging from 12 to 15 per cent of the basic salary. This amendment extends the range of beneficiaries to the highest bilingual allowance of between 12 and 15 per cent of wages also to administrators and other public servants in education and education activities, in addition to teachers and professional workers, where they perform tasks in areas of municipalities where the Italian and Hungarian languages are also the official language and the language of the national community is a condition for the performance of their work. In addition, two groups of public servants are explicitly added to the same category, namely staff at the Slovenian Institute for Education and Journalists of Printed Media of National Communities. Employees at the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia as well as journalists of printed media issued by indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities also appear. However, all those listed in the applicant's opinion in their work shall use both official languages equally and at the same level of difficulty. Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will support the amendment of the law, because we believe that the proposal regulates the performance of comparable work in the same profession or activity and the related level of difficulty and the actual use of bilingual business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Today, we are deciding on a proposal for a law amending the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, which was tabled by Members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the parliamentary procedure. The aim of the bill is to eliminate the distinction in the payment of the bilingual allowance between public servants employed in the educational institutions of both national communities and between employees at the public institute of RTV Slovenia and journalists of printed media in both national communities. The draft law thus amends Article 28 of the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act, which regulates the bilingual allowance, by extending the range of beneficiaries to the maximum wage range of 12 to 15 per cent with 3 to 6 per cent of the basic salary. By implementing this amendment, civil servants of Group B, such as directors, secretaries entitled to an allowance of 12 to 15 per cent of the basic salary, will also be employed in areas where the Italian and Hungarian languages are also the official language and the language of the national community is the condition for the performance of their work. Directors and other professional staff must communicate daily with both parents and employees as well as often with students and other stakeholders, using the library language or using both official languages to such an extent and at such a level of difficulty that the proposed amount of the supplement is justified. In addition, the number of beneficiaries of the bilingual allowance is extended from 3 to 6 per cent to 12 to 15 per cent also to public servants employed at the Education Institute of the Republic of Slovenia and to journalists of the printed media of the national communities. It should therefore be pointed out that the round of beneficiaries of the bilingual allowance extends only to those public servants who use both languages at the same level of difficulty to perform comparable work within the same profession or within the same activity and it is appropriate to ensure the same amount of the additive. The coalition parliamentary groups, in response to the legislative and legal services' concerns, have tabled an amendment to the Law Amendment, which deletes the word “public servants” and instead states that this supplement belongs to directors, teachers, educators and other professional workers. In this way, there is no room for doubt and it is specified to whom this supplement actually belongs, and there is also a distinction between those who, in view of the more difficult level of use of the language of the national community in education, belong an allowance of 12 to 15 per cent and those belonging to an additive of 3 to 6 per cent. The professional staff in both education and journalism, which operates in areas of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, certainly has no easy work. The ability to communicate in two languages at the daily level at the level of the Congregation Book Language is a difficult task and it is right to be adequately compensated. In the Parliamentary Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a bill amending the Law on the Public Sector Wage System.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on the regulation of the market for work under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and Members with first-signed Miha Kordis. At its 37th meeting, on 26 November 2021, the draft law considered the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a work force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much again, chairman, for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all present! We have before us a bill amending the Labour Market Regulation Act. Every time I look at the data on how many people live below the poverty line, I wonder where and who's crashed. If I add to this conclusion those who earn more for one yogurt than the poverty line, the numbers are staggering. It is sad that we can read online how people compete with each other over who can spend a month with less money. It is sad to discuss whether social transfers are too high. It is sad that we have more than 200,000 pensioners below 600 euros. The Constitution states that we are a social state, but it seems that we have failed to implement. There is nothing social about a husband and wife who both work well earn a few cents more than a minimum wage, and at the end of the month, they do not know what they will give to children. They don't know if they'll be able to buy the kids clothes, school supplies and so on. You can’t even think about losing your job or getting sick because you might lose your roof over your head. Whether we like it or not, most Slovenes and Slovenes live and only spend a month in trouble. And I'm not talking about not being able to survive with just three thousand, I'm talking about those who actually deserve less than a thousand. I'm talking about people who are real wizards to be able to take care of food and paid bills. I'm talking about people who don't even hope to think about losing their job, even if their salary is lousy. I strongly doubt that raising the lowest unemployment compensation will in any way contribute to a better life for people who have lost their jobs and are looking for a new job. I certainly believe that the lowest limit placed is shameful and only a few euros higher, such as monetary social assistance or even lower. It is only clear that we will have to do something more concrete for the good of the nation. Research into how much an individual has to earn to live and not just live has shown that it should earn at least a thousand 500 euros. This amount would allow him to rent a loan, pay all the bills, buy food and clothes and something else to take away. Perhaps it is time for us to start thinking about it, for then 80 percent of the wages, as much as the reward, will not be as shamefully low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Labour Market Regulation Law proposes to raise the minimum and maximum amount of monetary compensation, which are nominally laid down in Article 62(2) and (3) of the Labour Market Regulation Act. By the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it was initially explained that the lower limit of the recognised monetary compensation was established by the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 75/19), i.e. an increase of €350 gross previously in force, thus providing the recipients with a higher level of social security. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess that the proposal for amendments to the law is not duly justified. It is also recalled that the purpose of monetary compensation in the event of unemployment is to ensure the safety of insured persons in the event of the occurrence of unemployment without their guilt or against their will, with the insured insured insured for at least 10 months in the last 24 months. We also point out that the right to a financial compensation is guaranteed to beneficiaries in accordance with the principles of reciprocity and solidarity in the statutory minimum and maximum amount. However, it is not possible to provide for the net comparability of income from the period of work. Here we also want to highlight the very sensitive relationship between the minimum wage and unemployment compensation in terms of the impact on the individual's desire for reinvigoration. As a country, we need to work to create employment opportunities to compensate as few recipients as possible at the employment agency and to ensure that the period when they receive their compensation is as short as possible. However, we need to provide the beneficiaries with maximum good conditions for their activation back to the labour market. Only full employment enables people to arrange their lives so that they can be content with their way of life and that they can give themselves and their family a normal, decent life.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. Today we have a bill on the table to raise the minimum and maximum monetary compensation for unemployment. The current Labour Market Regulation Act provides for a minimum amount of EUR 530.19 and a maximum amount of EUR 892,50. Of course, we're talking about gross amounts. At this point, let me mention that the government of Marjana Sarca in 2019 raised the lowest compensation from the shameful €350 to the good €530. In the LMŠ, of course, we agree with the proposed amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act to ensure that the lowest and highest compensation for unemployment is raised. This compensation is the right to which the worker is entitled on the basis of insurance and is intended to enable him to survive during the period following the termination of the employment relationship and the search for new employment. So it's not about social benefits. However, it does not seem fair to us that a State does not allow income to cover the minimum cost of living to an individual who does not become unemployed on his own or for reasons of fault. With the amendment of the law, we wanted to allow the lowest compensation to rise to the level of the daily minimum cost of living. Since the amount of the refund is fixed at a gross amount, the minimum amount of the monetary refund would be determined as the sum of the minimum cost of living, as well as the amount of taxes and compulsory contributions as provided for in the sectoral legislation. In fact, this would allow an individual to receive a compensation during the time of seeking employment that would enable him to survive. Furthermore, the amendment would raise the maximum amount of compensation to be fixed at the minimum wage. The minimum wage has also been set at a certain proportion of minimum cost of living since this year, namely that the net amount must not be set at a lower rate than 20 per cent of the increase in the minimum cost of living. A change in the current regime would also be necessary in order to encourage energy, food and other basic necessities of life. Let me mention here that Slovenia is one of the seven countries in the European Union where the risk of poverty increased in 2020 compared to 2019. Under the poverty risk threshold, 254,000 people lived, 11,000 more than in 2019. So much for big growth and so much more. In the LMŠ, we believe that every developed country must strive to prevent poverty and strive to take such measures as would enable all people to live a decent life. That is why, of course, we supported the amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act at the meeting of the parent working body, but unfortunately failed. The new law has already ended the legislative path, as the coalition Members obviously do not understand that the individual who loses his job, not on his own account of course, is very difficult to survive with income that is lower than the minimum cost of living, or they simply do not care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! We Social Democrats have supported the amendment of the law, which would determine the new height of the lowest and highest unemployment compensation on the labour market. We agree that the current regime is outdated and unfair, based on certain nominal values that are not aligned with the growth of living costs, but need to be amended again and again by amendments to the law governing both levels of compensation. Finally, we have increased the amount of the lowest monetary compensation from €350 to €530 gross in 2019, while the ceiling of the monetary compensation is still set by the ZUJF, which was adopted in 2012 by the majority of the ruling coalition that is now under the leadership of Janez Janša. As one of the austerity measures, the government then reduced the maximum amount of monetary compensation from EUR 1 000 to EUR 892 gross. We supported the proposed amendments to the law because we estimate that the currently set amount of the lowest monetary compensation does not guarantee a decent survival for a person at the time of receiving the cash refund and seeking employment, as it is lower than the minimum cost of living of EUR 613. In addition, we believe that it is unfair for a worker who loses his job against his will, not his own fault, to receive the lowest amount of cash that is net higher than social assistance for only EUR 11. At the same time, we believe that the ceiling for monetary compensation should also be more equitable and should reflect to a greater extent the amount of contributions paid to the unemployment insurance scheme paid by those workers with higher incomes during work. At present, all those who today accept a basic salary of more than €115 gross receive the same cash refund of €893 gross when they lose their jobs. The loss of employment for everyone is a major psychological stress and effort, as it must face the loss of social security provided by employment and the uncertainty of finding a new job. Most of them are also faced with concerns about how to provide money for their family’s survival. It is true that cash assistance in the case of unemployment is not enough to encourage unemployed people to find adequate work, especially if they do not get a job for a longer period of time. It is therefore necessary to provide the unemployed with a comprehensive and appropriate system of assistance, which will motivate them to work properly and maintain their activity. However, there is also a need to systematically regulate the higher social security of job seekers and to more fairly regulate the relationship between the lowest and the maximum amount of unemployment benefits. We therefore also supported the proposal for a new law that would introduce the lowest unemployment compensation at the minimum cost of living and the ceiling of the minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Energy prices fly to the sky, food is being auctioned, other basic needs are being auctioned, young people are practically unable to reach their homes, the rental prices in the capital are being set at an absurdly high level. These are the current social conditions, which show that the economic crisis and the situation in which the compensation for spot unemployment will be very quickly revealed around the corner. Currently, the number of the lowest compensation is set at EUR 530 gross or a good EUR 400 net, which is by no means sufficient to ensure social security for workers who have lost their jobs outside their own guilt. EUR 400 is the amount to which you do not link the beginning and the end of the month, and therefore is in eccentric contradiction not only with basic social justice, but with the goal set out in the law for which we know the compensation instrument for unemployment in general; this is that the job seeker, while he has lost one job, has not yet found a new one, covers his back, provides him with normal survival, provides him with a brief social security in which he can find a new job in peace. These figures, as stated in the law, do not correspond to this objective of ensuring social security for a worker who has lost his job, so we propose that they be corrected in Levica. More specifically, our proposal is to place the minimum amount of compensation at the minimum cost of living, a statistically calculated figure that is being renewed every few years, currently amounts to €613, and at the same time raises the ceiling for unemployment compensation to the level of the minimum wage, i.e. a thousand 24 euros. It is only in this way that we can take a step towards more just insurance for people who have lost their jobs because the factory closed for some reason, completely beyond the control of a common worker. Unfortunately, this is not a position shared by the majority in the working body of the National Assembly or in the National Assembly at all, so today, this initiative of ours, we give a farewell to our law. That's too bad. But I think that this is some area that will have to be addressed by the next coalition under another government after the elections, if it wants people in this country to be adequately protected even when they are unemployed. To conclude, there is a word about context and some perspective. The figures of the above compensation, as proposed, i.e. the level of the minimum wage of thousands of euros, are still below the level set out in its time ceiling, which is a thousand euros some decade ago before the government of Janez Janša reached it with the infamous law of ZUJF and these refunds have been drastically reduced. So what we do with our marriage, or we want to do before the hearing is completed, is to return to the unemployed workers what the other Janša government unwisely took from them with its austerity action. As it is said, we insist not only on social justice, but also on meaningful regulation of legal provisions. Currently, the amount of unemployment compensation in the law is known in euros, in absolute numbers. Much prefer than absolute numbers in the law in dynamic living conditions, as is currently shown by the increase in living costs, it is in the legislation to enter the mechanism of how individual benefits received by people should be calculated; in short, that the law is the bearer of the concept and the mechanism and not the absolute number by which the balin and auctioned in different political situations in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thanks again for saying that. Levica submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a new Labour Market Regulation Act proposing that the minimum amount of monetary compensation be raised to the minimum cost of living and that the maximum amount of monetary compensation should be raised to the minimum wage level. The lower limit of the recognised cash refund was set by the new ZUTD in 2019, raising the current amount from EUR 350 gross to EUR 530.19 gross, which provided the beneficiaries with a higher level of social security comparable to social protection rights. The aim of the monetary compensation is to ensure social security at the time of the occurrence of unemployment, taking into account the previous contribution of the debtor and the right is not linked to the material position of the individual, such as social protection rights. The right to monetary compensation shall be guaranteed to beneficiaries in accordance with the principle of reciprocity and solidarity and, as such, the statutory minimum and maximum amount, shall not be intended to cover the minimum cost of living or to ensure that income from the period of work is grossly comparable. Not all unemployed persons are eligible for a minimum period of insurance to obtain a right when they lose their job or self-employment. Such individuals may be able to provide for their means of survival during the period of unemployment by means of social protection rights, to which beneficiaries of a poorer financial situation may also be entitled when the conditions are met. Pursuant to the provisions of the ZUTD, all unemployed persons may be entitled to an activity allowance and to reimbursement of the travel and postal costs referred to in this Title when seeking employment and taking into account labour market measures. The right to financial compensation as a social security right is based on the prior payment of unemployment insurance contributions, i.e. contributions from the insured person and contributions from the employer, which are extremely low. On the basis of the employment relationship concluded, for example, the employer’s contribution is 0.14 per cent, and the employer’s contribution is only 0.06 per cent of the base, which is why, for the purposes of the payment of unemployment rights in the State budget, the remuneration of insured persons collects an extremely low share of all the funds needed to pay those rights, while the majority of the necessary resources are provided by the State budget. I am surprised that Levica is not concerned about this proposal, which would increase budgetary expenditure, while yesterday they submitted a request for an advisory referendum on the Income Act, which would increase the remuneration of all employees at the expense of the state budget. Apparently, they want to convince people with such mints that they care about them, but when there are major and important changes to the laws that would leave all the Slovenians in their wallets more, Leftica opposes all the powerful ways. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we voted on the home committee against limited changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Current data on the state of unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia are very optimistic. For we have a low number and percentage of unemployment, which can be compared to the situation in 2008 which was pre-crisis year and with the situation before Slovenia's independence. This is a figure below 70,000 or a percentage below 5 percent. The nominal situation between the workers and the unemployed is 900 000 to 70 000 if we look at the annual average. This is encouraging because each crisis has consequences in employment and thus in the economic and, consequently, in the public financial image of the country. From the point of view of those who receive a financial compensation for unemployment, the picture is not so optimistic and pink. The difference between the lowest and possible maximum remuneration between these two amounts, which is still set in relation to the duration of insurance, the duration of receipt and the percentage of the insured remuneration, is currently around EUR 215 net. On the basis of a proposal that we would decide today if the mother's labour body confirmed the content of the bill's proposal, the difference would be only EUR 120. In the past, in the Desus Group, we have already pointed out the issue after our assessment of the underfunding, since, despite the fact that the amount of the contribution is really negligible to it, the compensation to the unemployed must, in our belief, ensure a decent survival and should not be comparable to other social transfers, such as, say, financial social assistance, which is not conditional on the payment of the contribution. Since the duration of receipt of the pension is included in the pension period, which also provides a basis for calculating the pension, and since the remuneration period is significantly lower for the individual’s income, the exceptionally low amounts of the pension may also be substantially reflected in the pension applied. On the other hand, we are aware of the trap of inactivity that can be triggered by the ease of high unemployment benefits, as a person loses the motivation to find work. Since the issue of how to establish an optimal balance between the level of payment for work, minimum wage, social transfers and, last but not least, the remuneration to be paid at the time of retirement is very complex, taking into account both the human dignity, economic conditions and sustainability of public finances, of course it should not be partial, but rather the task of each responsible government to find suitable solutions together with the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you, too. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u92	In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we supported the amendment of the Labour Market Regulation Act at the meeting of the parent working body. However, not because of the promotion or favouritism of receiving unemployment benefits, but mainly because of the fact that the maximum amount of this compensation is too low and, from this point of view, is unfair to those workers who lose their jobs after 10 or 20 years. All the while they were working, they received a decent payment for their work and then received a compensation that did not reach even the minimum wage level. It is true that a form of social security is a monetary compensation intended to allow an individual to receive a cash amount to enable him to survive at the time of seeking employment after he ceases to do his work. It is therefore a right from work and not a social benefit. This is a fact that we do not oppose. Justice shall be guaranteed on the basis of insurance for such cases and in accordance with the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. However, it is likely that, despite the fact that the remuneration on these principles cannot be equal to the remuneration received, it must provide sufficient social security and to a certain extent reflect the comparability of income from the period of work. This is particularly relevant in cases where individuals do not lose their jobs because of their guilt, especially in times of unfavourable economic conditions. The increase in the amount proposed by the amendment in question, a little more than EUR 000 gross and 700 net, is not, in our opinion, a disproportionate increase in the maximum possible compensation in a way that discourages individuals from seeking new employment or reactivation in the labour market. That is why we did not oppose the increase. The ceiling for unemployment benefits, however, is estimated to reflect a slightly larger amount of the resources contributed by those with higher incomes in the unemployment insurance system during their working hours. To improve the position of the middle class, such solutions will need to be considered in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item, this is on the exploratory proposal for the schedule of the advisory referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term development programme and the monitoring of the Slovenian military by the summer of 2035. A group of eight MEPs and Members with first-signed Miho Kordiš submitted a proposal for an advisory referendum for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Micha Kordiš, for an additional explanation of the proposal. I see he's not here. The proposal for an advisory referendum was addressed by the Defence Committee as the parent working body. I give the floor to President Sam Bevk to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At its 19th meeting, on 30 November 2021, the Defence Committee considered a proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Miho Kordiš. The Committee took note of the proposal to call for an advisory referendum of 19. Ten. 2021, by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 18. 11. 2021 and by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 16 November 2021. On behalf of the proposer, Miha Kordiš in the introductory supplementary explanation pointed out that the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 was flawed and stressed that the Government for the plans had no social consensus. As Mr Kordiš pointed out, this is an ambitious government plan, which focuses mainly on cooperation in the NATO framework and on the purchase of new weapons that we do not really need. The total cost of the new military expenditure by 2035 is expected to be EUR 5.4 billion, with the resolution according to Kordiš's words listing long shopping lists of weapons and other military techniques. At the same time, he noted that all of these expenditure is primarily aimed at establishing capacity to participate in NATO operations, not at defending the alliance, but at realizing the geopolitical interests of the central states of the Pact and increasing the participation of Slovenian soldiers in remote crisis areas. Uroš Lampret, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, initially said that the Government does not support the proposal for an advisory referendum for both formal and substantive reasons. The proposed referendum question, according to him, is vague, misleading, highly political and does not reflect the voter's right to vote for or against the referendum question as a proper reflection of his free will. The purpose of the referendum is contrary to national defence interests and to the internationally accepted obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also contrary to the fundamental strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security. The referendum could have a negative impact on the construction of the necessary capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to address the insufficient situation found when assessing its readiness. The retention of the motion for a resolution may, as the Secretary of State has said, prevent the conceptual, functional, structural and capacity-building of the Slovenian Armed Forces and thereby achieve a state of readiness that would enable the implementation of its statutory core mission. In addition, it could play a fundamental role in the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia as members of the Alliance, which seeks to fulfil jointly agreed NATO ambitions and objectives as well as the European Union in the area of collective defence and the common defence and security policy. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Mr Kurent pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had drawn up a standard opinion on the consultation referendum. Following this procedure, the Legislative and Legal Service shall, in particular, verify compliance with the provisions of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the Consultative Referendum. In the short debate, the members of the Defence Committee did not overwhelmingly support the Proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. Following the conclusion of the discussion under Article 184(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the following proposal for an opinion: The Defence Committee considers that the proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 is appropriate. The proposed opinion was voted against by one member of the Committee and 8 members of the Committee voted against it. The Committee did not adopt its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you, too. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Uroš Lampret, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u96	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a referendum. In accordance with Article 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the question of the referendum should be clearly expressed in the proposal for a referendum. The proposed referendum issue is a vague, misleading, politically-declared and does not reflect the vote of the electorate that his vote for or against the referendum question is a proper reflection of his free will. The proposal is misleading, partial and broad-based, highlighting certain guidelines set out in the motion for a resolution in a very sensational and biased manner. The purpose of the referendum is to contradict national defence interests, the internationally accepted obligations of the Republic of Slovenia and the fundamental strategic documents in the field of defence and security. The referendum would fundamentally affect the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the Alliance, which seeks to meet the agreed ambitions and objectives of NATO as well as of the European Union in a credible manner. It is misleading to point out that the motion for a resolution will definitively determine the volume of procurement for defence needs and expenditure for participation in NATO operations, as the resolution does not specify the rights and obligations of natural or legal persons, but indicates the possibilities for which, if an appropriate political consensus is reached, legal solutions are needed. The proposaler's statements in the referendum question that expenditure for the Slovenian Army will increase to more than €1 billion by 2027 and to more than €1.5 billion by 2035 are misleading and inaccurate. The motion for a resolution does not nominally set the amount of financial resources allocated to the Slovenian military, as could be understood from the proposed referendum issue, but rather defines a projection of defence expenditure as a percentage of GDP. The motion for a resolution provides for a gradual rise in the country's defence expenditure by reaching 1.5 per cent of GDP in 2024 and 2 per cent of GDP in 2035 at the latest, which would also be sustainable in terms of public finances. In the proposal for a consultative referendum, the applicant places very flat-rate emphasis on the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO operations and missions. In doing so, the proposer shall either intentionally or by ignorance not at all mention the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international missions in other international frameworks, such as the UN-EU or the OSCE. In a misleading way, it highlights a very narrow and unilateral view of the field of international security and defence in today's world. With regard to the motion for a motion for a resolution for reintroduction of military service or various forms of military duty, we explain that the motion for a resolution on the reintroduction of military duty speaks only within the current normative framework. The motion for a resolution foresees that the relationship between permanent and reserve members will be re-evaluated in the context of the strategic review of defence by 2026 or, in the absence of sufficient provision of a permanent and spare composition, if the need is to re-evaluate the possibility of introducing known or upgraded forms of military duty, in any event any change in the current regime of military duty, the National Assembly will have to decide. The applicant's statement, which points out that the Republic of Slovenia is not currently under military threat, is not relevant and misleading. The key building for the defence of the country in terms of its defence capacity and capacity is the readiness, equipment and human resources of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which must be such that at any time, even in peace, it is able to deter the attack, defend the independence and integrity of the State and participate in the collective defence system. However, there is a continuous process that cannot be carried out in a short period of time and is also ensured by the preparation of strategic and other acts. I propose that you do not support the proposal for a referendum and thus allow the further development of the Slovenian Army as one of the fundamental attributes of our statehood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u98	Nice greeting, thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to the guests from the Ministry! The proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 is under consideration today. Where the government is responsible in the position of power, the responsible leadership of the State of Slovenia is followed when Members are responsible in the government coalition and in this National Assembly, it cannot and will not gamble with the security of the people, it cannot and will not risk the failure of the defence of the Republic of Slovenia, which we have been reminded of for years in assessing the competence of the Slovenian Army. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that investments in the Slovenian Army are in defence of the country and its security. We also committed ourselves to increasing investment in the Slovenian Army by signing an international treaty and joining NATO. The proposed referendum issue in the Proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 is unclear, misleading and does not reflect the right of the electorate, why his vote is, therefore, for or against the development and equipment of the Slovenian Army. By voting in favour or against the referendum question, the said statement, the electorate cannot properly reflect his or her free will, as the issue is too broad and unclear. In the request for a referendum as well as in the referendum issue as set out, a very sensational presentation of the resolution on the general long-term programme for the equipment and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces is being made. The resolution therefore seeks to prove to be harmful. The reasons and request or proposal for a referendum shall be excluded from the context of the resolution in part and in general. Without a good knowledge of the situation, he again wants to show his investment in the Slovenian Army, and of course the Slovenian Army just wants to show itself as unnecessary. While it is important to understand the proposaler's agenda, or the party's programme, which considers that by its implementation among young people from positions that are contrary to any military and also against the fact that Slovenia is a safe country, it is gaining points and obtaining electoral votes among young people. However, it cannot be understood that, as a proposal for a referendum on a resolution, Levica wants to mislead and intimidate young people into enacting laws on the basis of a resolution to re-establish a military obligation. This is nonsense, as in fact the resolution only allows for the re-evaluation of the usefulness of introducing known or upgraded forms of military duty. Let us go back to the resolution that follows the objective of reaching this promised threshold by 2035, 2 per cent of the gross social product for investing in the defence of its own country. The total peace-keeping coverage of the Slovenian Armed Forces will include 10,000 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 as planned. Of this, there will be at least 7,000 permanent members and up to 3,000 members of the contractual reserve and new forms of the contract reserve of the Slovenian Armed Forces. To achieve the objective set out in the resolution, however, it is necessary to provide funds. This is a 14-year period in advance, so that these financial resources are proportionately distributed and will, as a result, have an impact on the improvement of the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia for military defence. We wish that in the coming years the assessments on the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to operate in peace and also its defence capabilities in the event of war would be very good. The purpose of the referendum is to contradict the national defence interests, the internationally accepted obligations of the Republic of Slovenia and the fundamental strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that security is one of the pillars of the sovereign state of Slovenia and that it is imperative for all citizens and citizens to invest in the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, so we will not support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group for a referendum on a resolution on the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Marjan Šarca Group will be presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u100	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament! In the LMŠ we are aware of the importance of the Slovenian Army and we also know that it has been pushed to the side many times. Finally, it was there somewhere after 2008, when Janez Janša ruled and when everything stopped because of the so-called infamous ZUJF. That's when the deployment stopped, the development stopped, and everything else. The government of Marjan Šarc was the first government to raise funds for military investments after that time. And as the financial situation at the time was different and we left a surplus in the budget at the time of the change of government, the situation today is also significantly different and we have more than €9 billion of additional pouf under this government and when things return to normal rates, of course all of this will have to be repaid. The suspension of the fiscal rule due to the covid-19 pandemic will be applicable there by 2023. It is therefore unclear how we will be able to implement all that is envisaged in this new resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. Let us not forget, too, that there is still a resolution, which is not due until 2025. It is therefore incomprehensible why a new resolution is being adopted just before the end of this government's mandate. But it's a clear reason. And this is a desire for political influence. The content of the new proposal is repeatedly linked to laws that have not yet been adopted in this national assembly. This discrimination and a strong shift from legal and parliamentary stability is also noted by the Legislative and Legal Service. I do not think it is necessary for Members to be alerted and reminded of the urgency of Article 87 and Article 89 of the Constitution, which defines clear procedures, how legislation is also adopted in the National Assembly. In the LMŠ, we believe that this is primarily the adoption of a new resolution and that it is also necessary to make an evaluation of the already adopted White Paper on Defence. Only on the basis of some evaluation can we know how, where, and what needs to be changed. Above all, when investing in the Slovenian Army, we must also look to the future at the weapons systems of the future, the new high-tech development of the Slovenian Army and its equipment. But all this, Your Honor, is irrelevant if there are no soldiers. The current minister has failed to make any progress at this point. In LMŠ, we believe that the active role of Slovenia in relation to NATO and the realization of national interests within this organisation is crucial to ensuring the safety of our citizens and citizens and of the European Union as a whole. We therefore disagree with the text of this referendum issue in the parliamentary group in a certain part, so we will abstain from voting on the consultation referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! This time, the Levica Group prepared a proposal for a consultation referendum on the draft resolution adopted on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. Proposals for this requirement are of the view that the Government, for such financial demanding laws as the Act on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army in 2021-2026, which provides for a total of EUR 780 million for the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and for the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035, should receive a broader social consensus in the defence and military field. However, we think that the proposal for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 in the National Assembly should receive wider parliamentary support. Finally, the Resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces is still in force until 2025, which was held in the National Assembly 23. 11. 2010 adopted by 73 votes to one. Let me remind you that we have proposed that the debate on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces be withdrawn from the agenda of the labour force by 2035; unfortunately, our proposal has not been heard. The current resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces is at a given time in line with the Slovenian Military Development Guidelines and the Ministry of Defence has all the guidance and implementation documents that enable the defence system to function and develop. The fact is that the current resolution is also within the entire mandate of the next government - to repeat the next mandate of the next government - and it would be possible to verify the implementation of plans for the long-term achievement of the level of development, organisation and modernisation of the forces and the capacity and connectivity of the Slovenian Armed Forces with the fulfilment of the national interests and interests of the Common European Security Policy and the NATO policy. We believe that before the adoption of the resolution for the next long-term period, an analysis should first be made of the implementation of the objectives set out in the present resolution, and we have not yet been briefed in the National Assembly. Our position is that, in the electoral year, after needless hastening to discuss and adopt a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. And if we have been favoured by the Social Democrats for the implementation of the Consultative Referendum on the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026, we are now reserved for the proposal to implement the Consultative Referendum. Although the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces was adopted by 2035 on the home working body, we believe that we should make some further efforts to vote on the resolution in plenary and, with arguments against this resolution, persuade those Members and Members who doubt the necessity of adopting a new resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Last but not least, respected colleagues and colleagues, the next government will be able to draw on the opinions and serious warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly when preparing the new text of the resolution and to submit the updated text of the resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. Your Honor! Our country's priorities are highly intertwined in times of crisis, including in the way that the focus has been focused primarily on solving health problems and the social and energy crises are still coming. People today are also afraid to face the enormous irritations of basic necessities of life in the future, and we will still have a headache because of the budget hole, which deepens from month to month. The fear that we will be recut into all the tissues of our society is, of course, more than ever at the end of the third Janša government's mandate at the end of the difficult financial and economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Hello! In the Parliamentary Group, we will, as the initiators of the Proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035, of course, support the proposal itself. Let's have a referendum! While the proposal for a referendum states that, in the face of billions of investments in weapons during times of peace and no military threat, it is therefore worth looking for a broader consensus among the inhabitants and residents. Referendum decision-making on important social issues is a completely stable practice in normal democracies. The more important the question, the greater the social impact, the more governments – normal and democratic – seek a broad social consensus. The issue of exponential growth in public spending on arms purchases is such a broad social issue. The amount of public funds is limited and the calculation of a simple mathematical equation is sufficient to conclude that if you devote too much to one area, others will suffer. Arms, therefore, by marketing public funds first from the mouth of the social state, creates new and deepens existing social hardships between the population and the population, lays the foundations for strengthening the network of public health institutions and services, prevents economic breakthroughs, weakens the network of public welfare institutions and services, fosters education, culture, science, development, agriculture and so on. The government is proposing billions for weapons. Of course, people need to be asked about this broad social challenge. The armed resolution proposed by the Government and for it by Minister Matthew Tonin specifically interferes with the system and, in principle and in principle, the regulation of the military area in the Republic of Slovenia, if you wish. It places the Slovenian army in an international position and uses it as a fast-flowed channel for the movement of public funds into private pockets mostly to owners of multinational arms corporations and probably some other domestic happy broker with commission. Citizens should therefore be asked whether they agree with the increase in military spending to almost a billion euros by 2027 and to more than 1.4 billion euros by 2035 and whether they agree at all with the purchase of arms under the NATO Pact. Do they therefore agree with the measures that bring no good to anyone but a handful? People need to be asked about this challenge! Citizens should be asked whether they agree with the reintroduction of elements of military duty, including the possible reintroduction of military service in the event of the failure to meet the Slovenian Army's established human resources objectives. If we sum up this idea and common fraternization with NATO Pact, if Nato says, more Slovenian boys and girls in our wars on the other side of the world, are citizens to be recruited by the military through compulsory recruitment for military service. People should be asked whether they agree at all with sending the Slovenian Army to missions and operations far from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. All of this, respected colleagues and colleagues, is provided for in the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 and all of these questions, so we argue in Levica that the widest population and population of the Republic of Slovenia should respond. In fact, Slovenia does not have its own military policy, which would follow the real threat of the state, but is implementing a foreign policy that follows the alleged threat of the privileged position of Western military powers. And that's what people need to ask. If the Government considers our issues problematic in this sense, it is only and only because the government resolution itself is problematic in this regard. Our question is indeed problematic because it exposes the fact that the political class is more concerned with meeting NATO's commitments than with caring for its own people. To the end of the lesson to the government. The state’s sovereignty is not based on how it explains its half past history or with whom and how it can be read on the international political floor. The state's sovereignty lies in its people. Therefore, at least important issues must be decided by people themselves. In any event, it is time that we, as a society, are making civil progress beyond representative parliamentary democracy into something more direct. We're in the 21st century, colleagues and colleagues! The common denominator of the issues that we send to the people in Levi with a referendum is whether the Republic of Slovenia is committed to peace or an oath of aggression, colonialism and the occupation of foreign countries. The government of Janez Janša has clearly demonstrated with its rapid weapons where it fits, what people believe about Slovenia in the eternal war of Nat, and what people say about Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u106	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed choir! Slovenia is currently a safe country. We are surrounded by partner and ally countries of the European Union and NATO. Yet, we live in a dynamic environment that changes all the time, so our safety is not self-evident. Modern threats do not know national borders. If, a few decades ago, the security of the state has only been linked to wars and conflicts and internal security to terrorism and other asymmetric threats, this has changed significantly. Wars and instability in our strategic neighbourhood and in the international environment have become hybrid and have an impact on security in us: terrorism, cyber attacks, mass illegal migration. Responsible policy must appreciate and take care of its own army. Although the European Union celebrates 75 years of peace, the citizens of Slovenia are aware of its fragility. 30 years ago, we experienced this on our own during the 10-day war for Slovenia, and then for years before our threshold we followed a much more bloody war in the former Yugoslavia. That peace is not self-evident, today we are reminded of the restlessness of the Crimea peninsula, the military conflicts in Gorski Karabakh and, finally, the crane is still flowing under the Balkan powder court, which was pointed out by the new High Representative of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Christian Schmidt. In the report to the United Nations, which we must take seriously, it is very clear that the country is in direct danger of falling apart and that there is a very real, very real possibility of a new war. Christian Democrats reject the position of the extreme Left, which says that we do not need the Slovenian Armed Forces, and which denies the reality of the threat of what is happening in the immediate neighbourhood. Military threats are being strengthened by increasing tensions in crisis areas until armed conflicts occur, by accelerating the arms race between important regional rivals and, as a result, by demonstrating power, by global redistribution of resources and supply capabilities, by working to protect members of national groups of other countries with armed forces, by geostrategic redeployment of the influence of important actors of the international community, and not least by threats arising from the derogation from agreements on the scale of conventional forces and the reduction of nuclear weapons. In New Slovenia we agree with the Government's assessment that planning is only a serious and specific security threat, unfortunately, too late. The national defence and military cannot be built overnight without credible and sustainable military readiness, equipment and completeness, and a clear formulation of national defence and security policy. If there is a direct military threat, which some put as a condition for the existence and investment in the Slovenian Army, it will be too late for anything. References, equipment, organisation and implementation of defence in the event of direct military attacks, trials and invasions may come suddenly, even within a few weeks. We don't even put a safety pillow in the car until we see that we're going to crash. For this reason, Christian Democrats will not leave the path of extreme left-wing populism, which wants to end the Slovenian Army. The military subsystem is highly respected in democratic countries around the world and represents a guarantee of state sovereignty. The legislative referendum is not allowed to be drawn up on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The proposaler is also aware of this as the Constitutional Court, at the initiative of the coordinator of the Left, for the constitutional assessment of the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army, has clearly responded by deciding that the law is not inconsistent with the Constitution. In addition, the Constitutional Court found that the National Assembly had justifiably ruled out a legislative referendum on the law providing funds for investment in the Slovenian Army. In New Slovenia, we believe that the proposed referendum issue is inadequate and misleading, as it partially highlights only certain guidelines in the motion for a resolution, in a very demagogic and biased way. We reject the complainant's repeated misleading statement that the motion for a resolution will definitively determine the volume of procurement for defence needs and expenditure for participation in NATO operations, since the resolution is a development guidance document that does not specify the rights and obligations of financial or legal persons, but only indicates the possibility for which, if an appropriate political consensus is reached, binding legal solutions are yet to be adopted. We must be aware that the constitutional concept of defence also includes the duty of the State to respect accepted international obligations, both in terms of the state of its defence system and in terms of participation in international efforts for the wider regional or global prevention of armed conflicts and the provision and maintenance of peace. Last but not least, the vast majority of members of the Slovenian Army live abroad in the Balkan region, where Slovenia has an extremely strong interest, due to proximity, in preventing further conflicts. On our doorstep, we have already experienced a sea of Balkan wars, and I believe that no one in this room wants this to happen again. The key building for the defence of the country in terms of its defence capacity and capacity at home within the framework of the collective defence system is the readiness, equipment and human resources of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which must be such that at any time, even in peace, it is capable of deterring the attack, defending the independence and integrity of the State and participating in the collective defence system. However, there is a continuous process that cannot be carried out in a short period of time, but this is ensured, inter alia, by the preparation of strategic and other acts, of which the motion for a resolution undoubtedly includes. In view of all of this, the applicant submits that the Republic of Slovenia is not currently at military risk, the least misleading. The resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia as a fundamental development and guidance document on national security in relation to the military threat of the State assesses that, after decades of weakening tensions in the international security environment, they are increasing again. In Novi Slovenija we thank the state-of-the-art majority of political parties who supported the Slovenian army by voting on the home committee. The proposal for a consultative referendum on the resolution on the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 was rejected by a large majority of the members of the Committee of the National Defence Council. She gave up her support! The opinion that the proposal was appropriate received only one vote of support, eight against it. One vote of support, eight against it! It is also quite eloquent that the applicant was not at the point of completing his explanation because he was probably aware of his error. We Christian Democrats restore the dignity of the Slovenian Army. In the operation of the extreme left in the area of defence, we see a desire to dismantle the fundamental article of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, which could be seriously compared to the non-state-making partial disarmament of the Slovenian territorial defence, which takes 31 years this year. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will unanimously reject the invitation to the Consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you, too. The views of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u108	Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 is a typical delay manoeuvre, which has been frequently used by the proposer recently to obstruct legislative procedures. Although it is basically a legitimate and legal institution, the misleading nature of the proposed referendum issue suggests that the primary interest of the applicant is a political-ideological struggle, not a desire to know what people really think. The proposal for a resolution on the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 identifies this development in three stages and responds to the fact that, from 2010 when the current resolution was adopted, the current resolution has substantially changed the international security environment by 2025. We stress that the time interval does not deviate from previous practice, as the resolution is also then adopted for the next 15 years and although the previous resolution is still in force. However, retaining and delaying the adoption of the resolution could prevent the conceptual, functional, structural and capacity-building of the Slovenian Armed Forces, thereby preventing an adequate state of readiness to carry out its mission effectively. As usual, Levica also points out the evidence of the absence of a social consensus in the defence-military field. But remember, already at the 2003 referendum, with a 66% majority, the people decided to join NATO, the collective self-defence alliance of the Member States. This has also confirmed the concept and direction of developing our defence towards the compatibility of NATO members. Therefore, the referendum, as you propose today, would be contrary to national defence interests, contrary to our fundamental strategic orientation, contrary to the adopted defence and security documents and against the international obligations of our country. In the spirit of respect for democracy, however, it would be possible to finally start to respect the referendum once and for all, because it was a binding referendum and not just a consultative referendum, instead of repeating the demands for ever-increasing new referendums, because you do not like the outcome of the first referendum. Among other very common reasons for opposition to the Slovenian Army is that the Republic of Slovenia is not militarily threatened. Our country is not, of course, at this moment in military danger, and we hope that it will never be again. But can you in Levica ensure that, taking into account all the fluid events in the international environment, even in our immediate neighborhood, it will remain so for a longer period? By comparison, even two years ago, we were not put at risk by health, but the epidemic put our world on its head within a few weeks. Respectable, security is one of the fundamental human rights and national security is the basis of social well-being. The effective Slovenian Army is the foundation of national competitiveness, independence, sovereignty and therefore its continuous updating is essential, and the resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Army by 2035 is the direction of development and modernisation of the framework. As we are well aware that military planning, construction and modernisation of military capabilities are a long-term process, we will oppose the proposal for an advisory referendum in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, everyone, have a good day! Today we are considering the proposal of the Left, which calls for a consultation referendum on the motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. The resolution on which the referendum is to be held details a number of measures and systemic solutions to improve the situation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, including the structural and capacity-building of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the improvement of the legal status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the upgrading of the military education and training system and the creation of new forms of the contractual reserve, which would significantly improve the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces to carry out the statutory tasks. The priorities for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces as set out in the resolution include the construction of a medium infantry battalion by 2026, which also requires the acquisition of equipment, a medium-range transport aircraft and a multi-purpose medium-sized helicopter, as well as the construction of a medium-sized reconnaissance battalion. It is planned to develop modern interactive exercises and shooting sites and to upgrade the central military exercise of the Slovenian Army in Poček. The scope of the Slovenian Army is expected to include 10,000 members by 2035, of which at least 7,000 members of the permanent composition and up to 3,000 members of the Slovenian Army reserve. In this regard, the non-aligned Members advocate that professional members of the military be equipped and trained for military tasks and that members of the contractual reserve take over other tasks in the national territory, with the assistance of the police, in protecting the state border, would participate in the protection and resolution of or protection of military facilities. In addition to the already adopted Investments in the Slovenian Army, the financial basis for these plans will also be a gradual increase in defence expenditure, which will rise to 1.5 per cent of gross social product by 2024 and to 2 per cent of GDP by 2035 at the latest. We are convinced that security is one of the fundamental conditions for the operation and development of our society and our country. We believe that the efficiency of the country is reflected also and particularly at the level of security that it provides to the inhabitants of its territory through its national security system. We must be aware that with all measures Slovenia provides a high level of security while maintaining Slovenia's position as one of the most secure countries in the world in an increasingly dynamic and complex security environment. This time, the resolution is prepared taking into account the security and defence challenges facing the Republic of Slovenia and recognizing the increased unpredictability and uncertainty of the international security environment, including the emergence of new forms of security risks and threats. After a period of relaxation, these tensions are increasing again and the world is increasingly moving away from perfect absolute peace, security and stability. On the basis of this, we are convinced by the unrelated Members that the improvement of the defence capacity and resilience of the State and society requires a sustained and coordinated political and social effort, which must be based on the awareness that an effective and up-to-date Slovenian army is one of the central pillars of the Statehood of the Republic of Slovenia and the guarantee of its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. We therefore advocate flexible responses and timely responses to the modern security challenges that require a more comprehensive approach and the participation of all stakeholders in our society. This is also followed by the proposed resolution and we agree with it in principle by unrelated Members. At the same time, I would also like to point out the possibility of revamping the introduction of military duty, which is repeatedly mentioned in the text of the resolution. We must recognise that the introduction of recruitment is a complex social process and has significant consequences not only for the military organisation but also for the economy, education and not least for everyday life and family. We therefore believe that a broader political and social consensus should certainly be achieved in order to introduce recruitment. The proposal to establish a recruitment system should be based on a support analysis or a study of the current situation, as well as a detailed analysis of the consequences of the launch of recruitment, including a detailed calculation of the financial implications of the project. But this kind of analysis has, unfortunately, not been prepared yet. We stress that changing the way the army is complemented requires the precise and coordinated planning and functioning of all state and social actors. It is therefore recalled that this challenge needs to be addressed with extreme caution, in due time and in non-exhaustible circumstances and with an appropriate long test and transitional period. The unconnected Members of the proposal to call for a referendum on the resolution on the long-term development of the Slovenian Army will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u112	Once again a nice greeting for everyone, especially the representatives of the government! The proposer, if any, should write the referendum question clearly and did not do so, as the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out. The emphasis should be on content and not on the act, so people would be confused and not know again what they are deciding. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that such a referendum should not be signed at all, since Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that laws which provide for necessary measures to ensure defence security are not allowed to be declared by the referendum at all. This is an area exempted from the referendum decision, as it is so important that it cannot be left to the public. We have always strongly opposed the North Atlantic link in the Slovenian National Party Group. In 2003, we urged voters to take a decision against the NATO consultation referendum. From Nato Slovenia itself, all these years have had absolutely nothing or people have lived anything better because of it. At the time of our entry into NATO, we committed ourselves to earmark 2.3 percent of GDP for defence spending. This level of GDP has never been achieved. The motion for a resolution provides for a gradual rise in the country's defence expenditure by reaching 1.5 GDP in 2024 and 2% of GDP in 2035 at the latest. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we support the proposal to take care of domestic people and national authorities, which is undoubtedly the Slovenian Army. The army in every country is the backbone of the system. Each country must have its military capacity. The Slovenian army provides and provides for a united and indivisible country. This is referred to in Article 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time provides for the defence of the State, which is also provided for in Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia does not implement funds for defence investments at the will of NATO, but in the light of the needs of the Slovenian Army. The defence of the State ensures the establishment and maintenance of the defence system. This system must at any time be able to provide and implement the country's defence against external military aggression. It may be true that the proposaler wishes to present that we are not directly threatened at this time, but we can expect changes in this area for a longer period of time. It is well known that the situation in society will deteriorate so that both security and peace will have to be ensured in national territory. Not long ago, we felt that an epidemic in the global dimension could not happen, but it did. It's the same with the defense of the state. It is also an additional feature, as military equipment cannot be ordered overnight, just as we could order equipment for medical purposes. This is a specific type of industry that operates on the basis of previous multi-annual contracts. So if we want to have resources to defend the country, we can't get those funds overnight. The purchase of such funds should be planned in the long term and therefore resolutions that do not provide for rights and obligations are adopted, but merely indicate the options which will be the most appropriate path in the future. The public's confidence in the military is relatively high despite fluctuation and is accompanied by a small public interest in military matters. Even in the current health crisis, we see how important the Slovenian Army is, because it is and will come against the health system with both additional personnel and medical equipment. I believe that each individual can count on the army in the event of natural disasters. So far, the military has still responded and has done their duties properly. This gives people confidence and belief that the military is not their own intention, but that it is beneficial. We believe that the majority of people think that the country needs a Slovenian soldier, but it does not need membership in NATO, because an individual does not have any direct benefit from a very remote and administrative organisation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to call for an advisory referendum. The text is requested by the proposer, the representative of the proposaler, Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. We look forward to a referendum in Levica on a resolution that will do three things by 2035. The first reason why this resolution is problematic is how much money it spends on the Slovenian Army; more specifically, the left hand side of this money will go for arms purchases, we are talking about more than 5 billion euros in expenditure. The second problematic reason for this resolution is the missions. This resolution foresees stepping up the participation of Slovenian boys and girls on missions abroad, of course following the decree of the Nato Pact, the pursuit of the interests of foreign military-industrial complexes and superpowers, not to ensure international security of peace or anything else they are trying to sell to us today. The third reason for the problem of this resolution is militarisation, as envisaged; from opening the door to the potential introduction of recruitment, which is strongly rejected by young people in this country, to the topic that is currently on the media, this is the so-called Tonin's West Point, or the intertwining of our military system with educational content and the violent push of these contents even among the youngest in this country into classical secondary education. Why is the referendum on a resolution that we know is a legally non-binding document? Because, in the last few years, we have been able to say in an ugly way, in Levica we have learned how the hierarchy of acts in this country is abused by the bureaucracy of the Ministry of Defence under any government in order to exercise its interests, which culminate mainly in the purchase of new weapons. About Tonin's law, 780 million euros for weapons, we called a legislative referendum, binding, not just consultative – and what happened? At the initiative of the Government, this referendum was banned to citizens and citizens in that country. However, the argument drawn up by the Government was constructed in a way that absorbed exactly such documents and content as this resolution by 2035. The document, therefore, looks rather formal at first glance, a resolution as a non-binding document, is therefore very harmful and establishes the basis for any government to continue its focus on priority investment in weapons and participation in foreign missions rather than on the welfare of citizens and citizens; such documents as this resolution will also be used in all possible procedures and obstacles, if any political force, such as the Leftist, the Socialists, decided to organise a referendum against arms purchases as we already have. So the resolution, as dangerous as it is, we think in Levica that it must be stopped. However, we also agree with the vast majority of citizens and citizens, who, after any public opinion polls, strongly and severely opposes spending money on weapons. Moreover, it opposes spending money on weapons even in cases where the purchase of weapons is understood by government ideologies; hence, that we are somehow committed to the Pact, that we will spend so much and so much money on new armory. Now I'm going in the dark in a row. In the views of the parliamentary groups, we were able to hear that we decided for NATO as a country at the referendum in 2003. Indeed, in 2003 there was a referendum on the entry into the NATO Pact, i.e. the referendum on the North Atlantic Treaty. However, this North Atlantic Treaty and the referendum question at the time do not give any guidance as to what this means for Slovenian public expenditure; so whether we will buy armored persons or not through membership in the NATO Pact. This was not the question that people in this country have ever raised at a referendum. This is not a question on which people in this country have at any time had the right to decide and to participate in decision-making. The reference to the 2003 referendum is therefore a pure and naked deceiving to establish a rhetorical framework of legitimacy from which the government is based, a commitment even after the purchase of arms of EUR 780 million, as set out in the Tonin Act or a much more problematic figure in the current resolution: which is an additional EUR 5 billion by 2035. €5 billion is a huge, huge amount of money. And every euro, every cent we spend on foreign military-industrial complexes, is lost for the needs of the people they have at home. We are talking here about a public health system that has been undernourished for decades and has been in crisis before the covida-19 epidemic occurred. Euros will go from these public health items to buy new weapons. Here is the need to build 10,000 new public non-profit apartments, because young people cannot reach their roof and cannot reach their emancipation. This will also require budgetary resources that will not be available if we buy weapons. Of course, there are the needs of older people in beds and quality care in the homes of older citizens. This too will run out of money, if we have limited, very limited resources of the Republic of Slovenia to purchase weapons, especially to the extent that this resolution foresees. After all, the international military industry, with the military structure of individual countries, is also one of the largest pollutants and climate crash promoters, the prevention and adaptation of which also requires an efficient social redistribution and spending of public resources that will not be made available again if we earmark resources for the purchase of weapons. Which brings me to the second point why should we actually need this weapon? Security, security, security, we need to ensure security, security is the basis of everything we hear in the context of the fact that Slovenia is not at all at military risk. No one is militarily threatening us. It does not appear that any of our neighbours will threaten us: in the medium, long term, after all, virtually all members of the NATO Pact or at least friendly countries. During our previous term in Levi, we have repeatedly pointed out how no one really threatens us militaryly or that those who insist that we must prepare ourselves to step up our security explain who is and exactly how we are being threatened. Is Croatia going to attack us? Italy? Maybe neutral Austria? Or, God forbid, Hungary, which has been transformed by the government of Janez Janša into our sovereign and the Republic of Slovenia into the vassal state of the Orban regime? You expect Orban's armored men at Slovenian borders to break in? In short, Slovenia is not militarily threatened in any way. The second argument in military danger is somehow moving in the direction of changing international security conditions or the international security environment. It is as if the global security environment is changing on its own, by some divine will, and not that it is actually being changed very actively by these very countries, from which weapons would now be bought for use on missions that are running or are the epitome of this changing international security environment. We are not buying weapons for changes in the security environment and adapting to these changes in the security environment, but for active cooperation in changing this security environment. If I say plastic, if I say concretely, like ambition does not hide this resolution: Slovenia's participation in the missions of the Nato Pact, including 10,000 kilometres away from the borders of our country, is expected to increase and increase. The arms being bought, from armoured men forward, from the haubics, from the cannons drawn in this resolution, are not intended for any defence of the country, but are intended for cooperation on these missions. What these missions have been like, we have been able to feel stronger in the last 20 years, if not before. By virtually destabilizing the region from Morocco to Iran and by engendering the occupation of Afghanistan, by attacking Libya, by attacking Iraq, and so on, by the greatest refugee crisis since World War II. Instead of turning the Slovenian government's logic around and caring for the well-being of its own citizens and citizens, it rather invested in killing equipment. And the Slovenian lives involved in such destabilisations, including the occupations of some foreign countries in the name of some purely third interests - more precisely, on behalf of Western multinationals - who want to subordinate themselves to global raw materials bases also in countries where cooperation regimes with Wall Street, for example, are not favoured and where it is impossible to get through in a soft manner, with soft diplomacy, with pressures and bribes, of course, the Slovenian authorities will sing weapons and armed intervention at the helm, as they say, with the United States of America, and to play such a disgraceful game of global policeman, the Slovenian authorities would be even more eager to send along with the Slovenian Army, Slovenian lives and Slovenian money. This is also something that we firmly and categorically reject in Levica, and this is something where the vast majority of citizens and citizens agree with us. No matter how many coalitions or government representatives phrase that military capacities are being built to defend the homeland, we simply cannot see that it is very clearly written in virtually all doctrinal documents and strategic documents, and I do not know what else we have in order that as much as 50 percent of the Slovenian military structure should be built in a way that can be very quickly organised and moved abroad. This is not an army for the defense of the country, this is an army for the occupation of the foreign. Even more, not for this country to have any of it, although any occupation of foreign countries is wrong in itself — no! Only to allow Western financial and industrial barons to absorb natural raw materials belonging to countries and their inhabitants in the third world. Let's just see how the current intensity of one or the first middle group of the battalion is being fulfilled. The core of this battalion group is armoured, more precisely for the 412 million euro armoured personnel currently being purchased. This is not a military technique capable of any defence of national territory. This is a dedicated military technique, suitable for the deserts of the Middle East or for driving around the countries of the global south, of course, like some auxiliary militia behind front lines, sweeping and hunting mice, after the US bombs and U.S. cannons have sung, and for nothing else. These armors have no other function. Please, boxers are 36-ton monsters who can't cross half of this country, which is forested, forest trains can't carry this kind of vehicle, because such vehicles are too wide and too heavy, they can't cross Jelowica and Pokluka. And then, what does the State Secretary on the Committee say at the hearing of this referendum initiative? Yes, because Slovenia is not only Pokljuka and Slovenia is not only Gorenjska. Yeah, great! I think so! Even if I assume a very silly idea that Slovenia would be under any classic military attack. What did the Secretary of State say? Sorry, we have no armored men who could cross Slovenian forests and who were able to operate in Gorenjska, so we will not defend Gorenjska. Somehow this is how his argument is structured from beginning to end – of course, if we take any seriousness in an absurd context, I must stress this. An additional argument on why we should need 5.6 billion weapons, these armoured personnel, and accelerated cooperation on missions is also - and this is very good to hear - as the representative of New Slovenia put it in his position, when you see how this security environment changes in the way of asymmetric warfare, hybrid warfare, terrorism and cyber security. I mean, what are we buying with this money? Armors. Please tell me, how many hackers have the armory stopped so far? And it shows here all the cognitive dissonance of government arguments and the intimidation of people against imaginary threats and what it is really about: the destruction, the shedding of the budget money of the Republic of Slovenia to some foreign military-industrial complexes. And absolutely nothing else. Of course, people in this country will be harmed. In Levi, we believe that the possibility of expressing investment priorities and directions to go as a two-million-dollar community should be the subject of a referendum. This is something that the current government in no way wants to convey and does not want to hear. About that famous Tonin law, 780 million for weapons, we - if you remember, colleagues and colleagues - first announced a consultative referendum, then proudly responded to the Defence Minister Tonin, rekši, but if Levica is serious, then let her demand a subsequent legislative referendum, which is binding, not just consultative. And we got him! Then what happened? The government banned the referendum. And it has not been forbidden to us, the Left Party or members of the Left, to the people in this country who have quite strong feelings and strong opinions on this subject. The fact that we have collected 30,000 signatures in the middle of the cold in the middle of the epidemic in just one week is eloquent enough. People don't want to spend your money on weapons, not in a special law, not in the budget, and at least in a resolution that raises this figure of spending to over €5 billion by 2035. The same is true of the human rejection of your kabayagi militarism, by which you open the door to the introduction of recruitment in this resolution, and you also intertwine military content, ideological brainwashing, since it is nothing else behind other school content. “No, no, no, no, no! This resolution does not mean militarisation”, hasty to explain and explain the government of Janez Janša. Yes, the government does say that it is not the militarisation of society, but at the same time its media for the Ministry of Defence is doing research on people supporting the introduction of military camp as compulsory content in secondary schools and college subjects. Yeah, what's different than militarization?? I think Here again it shows how government arguments simply do not correspond to reality and do not describe what is actually going on. [[…]] One of the government's arguments for rejecting the referendum is that, in our explanations in Levica, we are deceiving, say, when we expose Slovenia's participation in missions to focus on the NATO Pact, but we forget about the missions in the United Nations Organization. Yes, of course, because all the missions involving the Slovenian Army are such as to service Western imperialism, not international peace. We can look at specific figures from the middle of this year when 303 members and members of the Slovenian Army participated in the missions. Where and how were they distributed? 269 of them worked in the operations of the NATO Pact, Bosnia, Kosovo, Iraq, Latvia, and then three more directly in the American operation in Iraq, which they will now also take under the auspices of the NATO Pact. So here we have a total of 272 members and members. 28 members and members of the European Union participate in the operations of the European Union, including Bosnia, Mali, Italy, and then there are three, only and only three, who participate in the operations of the United Nations. It is said that out of 303 members and mission members, 272 people participate in operations of the NATO Pact, or 90 percent. Then there are 9 per cent of the operations of the European Union, one per cent of the operations of the United Nations. Who, then, is misleading in their views? Is this really the Left, which warns that this resolution foresees a further increase in participation in international missions, and it also makes it very clear that it is not a United Nations peacekeeping operation, but also other international links, specifically for the NATO Pact? Even these operations of the European Union, which are misled, are not innocent. Let's just see what's going on in Mali. In Mali, it is about participating in the consolidation of the imperial supremacy, exactly as in Afghanistan, except that the interests that are being served are not American but French. The interests of French imperialism under the umbrella of the European Union, such as those of Iraq and Afghanistan, were carried out under the umbrella of the NATO Pact. The sympathy for this kind of global action is not hidden by this government. She wrote this very clearly and also described it in the current resolution, and of course people in this country should contribute their tax money and their lives in order to ensure that these policies are then implemented for foreign corporations and foreign interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The debate of Members starts with Boštjan Koražija, followed by a discussion by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u116	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Indeed, the matter is clear, in fact, on such important matters as the resolutions we have today on the table should, in fact, always be reached by the social consensus that could also be reached in a legal referendum – in my opinion, indeed – but also in an advisory opinion to see or reach an opinion, or also what people want or what are essentially the priorities of all our citizens and citizens. Those of us who are quite on the ground have serious and serious concerns about the purchase of weapons because they see that they do not actually buy or equip armies in the sense of equipping the Slovenian Army, but are actually buying weapons. And that's just a big difference. This resolution is also again one of the resolutions that gives a significantly greater emphasis to the purchase of weapons and to the participation of NATO in these other operations, not so much to the emphasis of the Slovenian Army in terms of equipment and other things. As mentioned earlier - and I would have responded to the government's opinion. See, Mr Tonin recently or this month, in an interview, replied that, in essence, this military budget or budget for the Ministry of Defence, or these expenditure related to weapons, is essentially 1:8 with other expenditure, even when we compare it with health care, which of course is not true. I'll tell you why. Firstly, in the budgets for 2021-2023, only EUR 360 million or 36 per cent less than for investments in the military, which will amount to 491 million. This does not include Morse’s investment assets. Next time. According to the latest Eurostat official data or the 2019 COFOG classification, Slovenia allocated 1 per cent of GDP for the military and 6.7 per cent of GDP for public health. So if we're talking about a relationship, it could be a ratio of one to seven or one to six to seven. Otherwise, it is not a question of what is just, but of what is necessary. And in fact, look, the situation that forced us to work daily on a daily basis with this infamous Coronavirus, which I hope will end as soon as possible, does not really understand why the emphasis on the purchase of weapons is on such a large scale. We all remember very well that session when we discussed buying those damaged or incapacitated hives that were literally attached to the port of Koper. In all that is happening, such things are only a spark in some form of non-compliance and also, in fact, a disagreement with the very policy not only of this government, but also of the Ministry of Defence. It is said that there is an increase in expenditure where people or people feel that it should not be or that it could wait. Now, as far as the health system is concerned, these comparisons also need to be understood when we are talking about the comparison of both systems, the health system and the military say that there are about 46 thousand people employed in health care, and currently there are 6 000 447 soldiers and soldiers and 696 reserve staff in the military. With these reserves, as far as I can tell, I think it's even been, if I remember correctly, but I don't know, I'd rather check with Mr Lampret for a while even 6,000 reservists, if I remember correctly. But now it's gone down, which is quite a drawback to this backup unit. In fact, between February 2020 and September this year, the number of permanent staff decreased by 12 and the number of reserve staff increased by 30, but again this fluctuation or things are the same. As it is said, the expenditure currently being spent essentially for the purchase of weapons would need to be discussed not only more broadly but also more widely. And speaking of social consensus, in fact, what is essentially the greatest achievement of social consensus and democracy, is that people or that people decide and decide for themselves the things that concern us all. It is also a fact that when we talk about expenditure from the state budget when we talk about expenditure for ministries, whether it is the Ministry of Defence or whatever else, it is essential to understand that we are talking about our common money. When it comes to such high expenditure, people should, of course, be able to make decisions and also to influence decisions taken on behalf of the Ministry or even on behalf of the Government, the President of the Government. Of course, I will support this call for an advisory referendum, because if we want to bring this country into some of the normal lines of democracy that are currently small, we will need to understand, not only that it is necessary to respect the will of the people, but that in fact the will of the people is the only one that has to be taken into account that there will be no partial decisions that are interpreted in a number of ways or other. This will not go on indefinitely, because not only is the state budget and the finances that we have fought so much for all these years, it is necessary to be honest about our debt, it can be verified and said, it is right that such things are indeed decided at the consultation referendum, but my personal opinion is that even at the right referendum. Okay, that's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word, and he will be given the word Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Thank God, Slovenia is a safe country and in New Slovenia we understand that the current policy, or every time, is responsible for ensuring this security for the generations that follow us. What happens tomorrow, we don't know. However, we know what I have now understood from the positions and discussions of representatives of the parliamentary groups, that the rational, thank God, the majority of this National Assembly is very far from the Left in this irrational Proposal for an invitation to a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. We strongly oppose this consultation in Novi Slovenije. Health, culture, development or the military, the choice is false; the choice is false, and the hypocrisy of the referendums and the Left is true. That's what I've been reading in the 24ur.com online for a year. That's not what I invented. That's where we read it. You can read it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the political debates of the so-called armed opponents in particular, the argument is that Slovenia is a safe and peaceful country, without clear and direct sources of threat, often used or abused to justify opposition to defence spending. The security of the Republic of Slovenia and the associated well-being of its citizens and citizens are regularly confirmed by such and other global indices, which place Slovenia at the very top of the safest and most peaceful countries. The period of war conflicts that have recently taken place in our immediate neighborhood seems far away and only a subject of historical study. We rarely hear about security and defence in the context of public debate, and even then they do not most often reach the level of in-depth and professionally reinforced debates. Clearly, the perception of the people we are in deep peace, where the possibility of an outbreak of conflict is unimaginable. The area of security and, above all, defence is separated from citizens, moved into the sphere of political competition, and in any attempt to regulate and modernise the defence system, the public is bombed, poisoned with half-truths and populist deceptions regarding the unreasonableness of investment in security and defence. The latter is often portrayed as unnecessary and unnecessary spending of public money, either knowingly misleading or actually not understanding the importance of defence planning and the modern role of the armed forces. There is also certain that there is an artificial creation of affairs for the needs of current policies, which unfortunately have long-term impact on the perception of the public and the attitude towards the defence system and its role. It is crucial that the issue of security and defence is not as simple, uniform or black-and-white as in the politically marked records taken by some of the most vulnerable opponents of strengthening the Slovenian national security system. Defense and security are not free. Although I would like to believe that Europe will continue to enjoy the benefits of the so-called peace dividend, the international security environment is directing us towards a more realistic reflection and a leap in our attitude towards security and defence, and thus defence spending. The latter applies both to allies and to neutral problems with which it often wants to compare itself with Slovenia. More. Both economically and socially, it is possible to claim that armed neutrality would represent a significantly greater burden for the Republic of Slovenia and citizens than our membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. It is not possible to overlook that the Alliance allows us to ensure our security under the umbrella of collective security. We have long decided on this collective security – March 23, 2003. At that time, those who came to the polls, with a two-thirds majority or more accurate, 66.05 percent of voters then decided to enter Slovenia in NATO. I don't think it's right to attack and ask people every so long about what they've already decided. The Slovenian Armed Forces and the Slovenian Defence System are one of the key foundations of our statehood and are an indispensable element in ensuring the safety and well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Even though the Slovenian Army in the work of the Slovenian political environment is all too often seen as an unnecessary burden and a cost to the general development of the country, it is necessary to realize that the latter is one of the key guarantees of long-term development, progress and prosperity of the country. The latter is also based on the fact that, as a sovereign entity contributing its share to common security, we are recognised in a wider environment that is key to our overall well-being. Unfortunately, we are only too often aware of this in crisis and emergency situations when members of the Slovenian Army and members of the Slovenian Army are unselfishly and humanely engaged in helping to save lives and ensure security. I only wish that in public debates on the future of the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian defence system, expertise, prudence, constructiveness and, above all, respect; respect for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who work daily in the service of the country. That is why they need and deserve our support and, above all, modern and safe equipment, weapons and an advanced and properly regulated defence system, not because of any political option, leader or global view, but because of the need for common awareness that the security and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia are fundamental values that we must all strive for together. The defence and security of the state must not be the subject of political games. However, the long-term ambitions on the future of the Slovenian Army must be sufficiently prudent, thoughtful and sustainable for each time political elite. Slovenia is a safe country, it is our duty to preserve it for our craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, the proposaler of Micah Kordish wants the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levica, we want to strengthen health care instead of armoured men and that people have the right to a referendum and democracy. This makes us a far left in the eyes of the parliamentary right. I would say that the truth is the other way around; if people have a need for a better health system, the country should invest in this health system as a priority. This is a normal position, this is a position shared by a large majority of citizens and citizens. I will tell you what is the case with extreme politics, with extreme right policies, if we are right; the fact that we have more than 250,000 people in the country is said to be more than a quarter of a million people living below the poverty risk threshold, and the authorities are buying armor for 412 million euros. It's an extreme policy, it's an extremely right-wing policy! I refer to this because obviously the right-wing bloc has decided on a rhetorical strategy with which Levica wants to brand as extreme, but not as what is actually true of the fact that we are messengers of citizens and citizens who overwhelmingly reject the fact that the state throws limited resources for some foreign military industrial complexes, instead of investing them where they are really needed: infrastructure, development, social solidarity and so on. Why a referendum on a resolution that is not bound by a document? I think the argument we just heard is still the best rejection of the government statement: “Look what all the opponents of the referendum today say about that referendum to enter the NATO Pact in 2003.” In 2003, people really decided to enter the NATO Pact, and there was no question of weapons, armors, even more enlarging Slovenian boys and girls on missions abroad and so on. But this right political class doesn't at all interfere with the argument that, yes, because people have already said themselves in 2003, so today we're going to throw 780 million into weapons, even though one thing has nothing to do with another thing. In exactly the same way, the Government wants to argue with the resolution now being adopted, namely on the arming and operation of the Slovenian Army by 2035. The resolution will serve as an argument, including a legal basis in certain procedures, so that bureaucrats at the Ministry of Defence, whenever they want to buy new military toys for generals, will argue and argue how we Members, representatives of the people in the National Assembly, have already blessed this direction and what we in Levica are now in the process of implementing if, however, the social consensus with the adoption of this resolution has already been reached. It is exactly the same as today in the debate and in the arguments it is abusing the 2003 referendum in order to deny the referendum to people in 2021. The previous speaker from Nova Slovenije, Member of Horvat, told much in his debate how we in Levica deceive in our arguments how inaccurate we are. It is interesting and eloquent that in all its burns, how we are not accurate and how we deceive, there is no way to say it specifically. Where exactly are we deceiving? Where exactly are we incorrect? [[advertising from the hall]] All we have said is our standard policy direction for peaceful coexistence in the world and for pre-investment in the needs of people, but not in the appetites of the profits of foreign military complexes, which we are focusing on, in a specific case, the content of the resolution, which we see as problematic. Nothing else at all. This isn't about any deception, it's about the pure truth. The arms that are being bought and which this resolution wants to inflate in EUR 5 billion by 2035 are in no way bought for the defence of the country, are being bought for the occupation of foreign countries. These are haubice, and these are mainly shells, around which the forces of the Slovenian Army are supposed to be built. These armors are, in fact, very limitedly useful as military techniques. They can be used primarily to play auxiliary militia in the occupations of the countries of the global south. Such a role is envisaged for the Slovenian Army within the framework of the NATO Pact, i.e. the auxiliary forces of the expedition corps, which should occupy countries such as Afghanistan, which do not participate in the proliferation of countries such as Iraq and so on. In the military-technical sense, the shells are actually clay pigeons if you want that argument further. Look what happened to the armored men in the last conflict in Gorski Karabakh. These are easy targets for any aviation, including improvised explosives, and in fact, for any serious war in the classical sense, you have nothing to use. You can't even use them to operate in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, where half the country is a forest, but these armored guards are too wide and too heavy to drive across this forest, which is an argument that may even be the most frustrating of military bureaucrats at the Ministry of Defence because they know that they can't turn it in any way, they can't “strap” it and buy these armored persons with claims that they're supposed to serve citizens and citizens at home. The line that we can also listen to in the defence of weapons by all of New Slovenia, obviously, and its ministers and its Members, is also that no, no, no, because we don't give money just for weapons or for the Slovenian Army, as they call it. We say that at the same time it is necessary to invest in all subsystems, that we must invest in health care, not just in weapons, and that this government does it with a big, big spoon and that it does not leave anyone behind. Well, we can look at some numbers. For investment in health care, €360 million is earmarked in budgets 2021-2023, which is 36 per cent less than for investments in the military – €491 million. We can also compare this amount with a special law that will spend €780 million on weapons over the next few years, which I stress once again – we do not even need to. Even if we were to buy weapons, it is inappropriate to do anything with them in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We can look at other numbers. For boxers only, 8 times 8 are supposed to go to 412 million euros, which is more than three years of budget investment in health - I have already said the number is 360 million euros. This is also more than European funds will be available from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme in 2021-2026, where the number is set at EUR 225 million. We can keep pulling these comparisons. For example, the aircraft is Spartan €72 million in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme of €60 million by 2026. In doing so, I should point out that the initial amount operated by the Government has put the cost of the plane Spartan at EUR 50 million and then virtually increased by EUR 20 million overnight. It was also promoted as a dual-use technique, as an aircraft to help put out fires in this country, and then, if the black plane was raised by 20 million euros, it bought one without a fire module. But the glyph helicopter for NATO’s multinational special forces, which are also registered in Tonin’s weapons law, is expected to cost 50 million euros — two helicopters. We compare this with the Bell 412 upgrade, which is a true dual-use technique that serves mountain rescue and other civil needs in this society. This amount is EUR 31.7 million. There are €50 million for two helicopters for NATO Special Forces and €30 million for the Bell 412 helicopter fleet, which are actually useful for the needs of citizens and citizens within the Republic of Slovenia. I think these numbers are very eloquent, and I think they show very eloquently why it would suggest that the referendum should reject this resolution. Finally, why is it that the government, as the devil, is cruising into fundamental democracy and referendums so much, because people in this country are not stupid and because they know that every euro has been thrown into arms, lost for their or our common health, housing, social, and so on. Just to conclude, because I think that this is a secondary argument, but it is very important to point out that there are not as many corruption risks in any business as there is in any investment, there are not as many corruption risks as there are in the acquisition of weapons. Not only with us, this applies globally, but for the domestic territory and for the domestic context, there was virtually no greater purchase of weapons in this country, where things would not go wrong; either in a sense of waste of money and reckless investment, or to purely discovered corrupt business, such as the Patrie affair, where the first Janša government wanted to earn and cut its piece of cake, its commissions. That is exactly how we can expect the course of things to be expected when purchasing armor from the current and even those projected for the future, rather than from the hawbice. Let’s just see how this story went with the armored men, as far as the costs were concerned. For the first time, the purchase of armoured personnel appeared in the 2018-2019 budget memorandum, where they were estimated at EUR 207 million, which is for 56 armoured personnel. Shortly thereafter, the then secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Miloš Bizjak, gave an interview for the Slovenian Army, where he magically fixed the number up and spoke about 250 million euros for these 56 armoured men. During the previous term of office, the last days of the Cerara government, we received an OCCAR agreement at the table, which envisaged an even higher number for armoured personnel: EUR 306 million. Well, today we agreed to buy not even 56 shells, but less, 45 shells 8 times 8 for 412 million euros. How do you think the cost of purchasing other military techniques will increase – exactly as it did with armoured personnel – and it will continue to happen when the price has increased from €207 million over several years to €412 million, and I will tell you that it is not because of inflation. If I take into my hands what's going on in the area of purchase of armor 4 times 4, to inflame American oshkosh, we see exactly the same story as is happening in the area of armor 8 times 8; in particular, the current boxer armor. The first issue, the first price we received for the oshkoshe 4 times 4, 15 million euros, was the last price of almost 40 million euro for those few vehicles that Minister Tonin then took in the non-driving state a few months ago. Here comes the money of citizens and citizens. In the airlocks! And it will go to a much greater extent if this resolution is adopted, as it will serve as a basis for the further escalation of militarism, the participation of Slovenian boys and girls in NATO's foreign occupation missions, but of course the biggest thing, the main part, for weapons, is to increase the cost of over €5 billion by 2035.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Replica, Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, colleague Kordish, in my debate I did not talk about the extreme left; I do not deal with this evaluation with you, nor do I want to have speech exercises in this serious content. But it would be good to tell people the exact numbers. You said – and your colleague – EUR 360 million for the health system. Look, we all pay for the health system, including us, there's about three billion and a half billion. Well, thank God we don't have a defensive cash register because, thank God, we don't need it. It is a fact, though, that what we listen to practically this year reveals something — that history repeats itself. On 15 May 1990, Lieutenant General Ivan Hočevar ordered, on the basis of an anti-constitutional order from the Federal Secretariat for People's Defence and instructions from the SFRJ Military Council, the transfer of arms to the Republic of Slovenia's Territorial Defence – readers, disarmament. Today, 30 years since we have a country of our own, something like this is actually happening, this time on the left side – disarmament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Micah Kordish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you. Let me get this straight. I wasn't talking about the public health system when I was talking about 360 million euros, I was talking about investment in health care. These are the items of the Ministry of Health which are aimed at this area, and we cannot possibly compare the entire health field with the health treasury at the head of the Department of Defence. What we can compare is investments at the Ministry of Health and investments at the Ministry of Defence. And here we can see that the government of Janez Janša, led by Nova Slovenija and Minister Tonin, is firmly committed to the proliferation of money for weapons and much more relaxed to the needs of citizens and citizens after quality treatment in the public health system. Besides, what are your armors that you can't ride over Jelovica?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Robert Polnar has the word, and only Bevk will get it after him. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposal to call for an advisory referendum on a document called a resolution is a kind of political innovation that introduces a new dimension into the beauty of democracy in a Slovenian way. At the same time, it also provokes a purely specific question, or can only trivialities really work in this country? However, the decision-making dilemma regarding the call for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces is determined by two opponents, although perhaps in an excessive sense complementary, logic. The first is an inclusive logic that connects. Its basic principle can be written with the formula a or b, which can also mean a and b. The second is an exclusive logic that separates. Its formula is a or b, which cannot mean a and b. Each of these two logics has its advantages and weaknesses. Personally, I am much more committed to the first, inclusive logic. Although it sometimes seems to us that history is running its course and, as the old Stoics have said, that the fate of willful leadership, and the unwilling one, I am sure that it is up to us, which mental or civil logic will prevail in today's decision, as well as in future decisions. In words about weapons and the separation of spirits, we often overlook the better, kinder variant: those who are not against us are for us. Even though this thought is not entirely without impatience or implicit violence against those who in some dispute or dilemma do not want to be neither against but are elsewhere. In order for the army to survive, the state must take care of its soldiers. Military professionals want an honorable profession; a profession that is paid for. Members of the military force are looking for an existential meaning, but no chance of finding it. For them, the defense of the country is a worthless chat between political decision-makers, those political decision-makers who do not know that the country is defended primarily by the defence of the military profession, and it is almost gone. There's no system to provide safety to professional soldiers. They leave the army every day. All of this is due to poor financial conditions, non-professionalism, as well as demeaning working conditions. Modern armed forces increasingly abandon the traditional role of deterrence from possible aggression and war. They become a regional and broader security factor through forms of international military cooperation and alliances and participation in various international operations and joint military exercises. Armed forces also provide support to civilian institutions in crisis situations, such as basic accidents or other large-scale accidents. Colleagues and colleagues, such a kind of theoretical idea may be present elsewhere. In the Slovenian Army, however, there is a danger of systemic swelling, sliding and decay. What do professional soldiers really want? They are not satisfied with the basic conditions under which they carry out their difficult profession. In addition to social concerns, the technological status of the military is also worrying. If this continues, the military will not be able to carry out its basic tasks. What this means in a practical sense can be imagined by those involved in national security assessments. Such a false faith is the inability to perform basic tasks in absolute disharmony with a moving agitprop about an army that has nothing and can do anything. The army can't promise more than politics has made it impossible. It is easy to talk about the bright future and the military honor of an army that can work for free and does not ask questions. But it's just a new accumulation of problems. The defence of the military profession has just led to the transport of the entire system, all of which has led to a substantial misunderstanding of the defence system. The military thinks that it is not logical to continue to deny digital things to the military and to lower the already low standard of officers, officers and soldiers. The military is a special structure of society and can operate under restrictions, but only to a certain extent and temporarily. The drastic downgrading of social and personal standards starts to break down this structure at a certain point, especially the psychophysical willingness of professionals, their motives and the belief that those who have to take care of them, which is what we political decision makers have deceived and underestimated. We, ladies and gentlemen, have talked a great deal this year, and I also think we have talked a lot about the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army last year. A hundred times and a hundred times it has been repeated that it is 780 million euros, very rarely, but it has never been said that these 780 million euros are in the six budget years. And that this substantially relativizes at first sight for the Slovenian situation very high sum. And it wasn't an illusion, it wasn't a mistake, it wasn't a miscalculation or anything. This was a cover-up, a lie, and a consciously telling of a lie. This kind of policy is so perversely surrounded by political indiscretions and allows lies to spread everywhere. Then she easily succumbs to the temptation of exaggeration and forgets the historical background. However, we must observe and judge precisely on this background, although his picture is not entirely innocent. In the last 12, 13 years, we have drastically reduced the army to a loss of caricature. All that's been going on for the last 10, 12, 13 years is the mockery of the difficult symbol of the country's defense ability. Every country, not just Slovenian. The Slovenian collective military-political mind estimates that there will be no war in the Balkans and its surroundings, at least not in the near future. But if it does happen, it has long since lost its powerful positional form before the new essence of close - knit violence. There's no more positional activity. The front and the back have disappeared as an operational stereotype. In fact, there are fronts and backdrops everywhere. When it attacks stronger, it is without exception a flash war when it attacks terrorism, it is done exclusively with mobile special forces. If a regional war is waged, this is not done without allies, if we want a stable, well-preserved state power, and then we're not going to war at all. War is won by saving on its own strength. When partners are most powerful, the risk of decisive defeat is minimal. The Slovenian army, after all I have just mentioned, is the negation just described. It's about changing these things. And we've started changing these things for the better and we're starting to gradually re-establish our own defence force. The motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces defines a whole range of different desires in three development periods, of which, in my opinion, half of them are either unfulfilled or unfulfilled. These include, for example, the idea of buying or modernizing anti-aircraft weapons. Here it would show things to be a little different. Instead of buying new air defence systems or new generation weapons, the work of the defence of the sky could be managed by Slovenian freaks. They're going to bring down everything that's coming. Not too expensive a solution is offered on its own. A weapon that only operates on the mysterious principle of concentration of pathological malice, mentally directed towards the cortex of the enemy. It sounds intense to madness, but my colleagues and colleagues, it's black-listed with planes flying over such a cowardly nest! There is no defence against new sophisticated diabolical weapons, and only with Slovenian freaks can this paranormal monster be activated. Colleagues and colleagues, the independent Slovenian state was created under the signs of happy and tragic stars of historical change. Happy because totalitarianism has been broken because imperial states and their ideologies have broken, including Yugoslav ideology and its country, and tragic because it has caused many victims and many dangers that we still face today. Today there are many who boast that they knew all the dates of our calendar at the time, but these are irrelevant. The only thing that matters is that the country was equipped with its own armed force, and this in no way shows memory loss. Political realism — certainly, but what will be the fate of our army? We cannot care that in the good ten years following the financial crisis we have been able to completely undermine its foundations. Therefore, it is no longer a question of who puts the saw in our fist and directs it to the branch that we sit on. Someone will have to be revealed as always. It doesn't matter what others do to us, it's mainly what we do for ourselves, and it's a shame, ladies and gentlemen, to show us how always, tomorrow morning when someone wakes us up again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The text is wanted by the proposer, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you, Chairman. I think that, for the first time in this moment, it was said that in the formation of the Slovenian armed forces, we should be able to imitate the fact that Slovenia needed an armed force to establish itself as a country when it left Yugoslavia. Let me say this: this very secessionary experience of Slovenia from Yugoslavia is also a very talkative testament about how vulnerable armoured men are in themselves and how this is a military technique that is in fact completely useless for any defence of the country and that it can only serve as an icy oppression in the occupied countries. The armory of the Yugoslav People's Army, which drove across Slovenia in 1991, was virtually powerless simply because they were surrounded by some territorialists and acted exactly like the military technique, they acted exactly as I told them today. These are clay pigeons with which you can do nothing but use the budget expenditure to subsidise a foreign military-industrial complex - like a... and - like b - for some auxiliary role in the US occupations of the countries of the global south and absolutely nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dušan Shiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u130	Dear President, I was a little late. Look, I heard from the proponents yesterday that they're going to be in the next government. Now I wonder if the next government will be without a minister of defense. That's what I'd like the motioner to say. He's got 20 minutes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u131	Comrade Shisko, this is not a procedural proposal. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u132	Yeah, let me have her answer it one step at a time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u133	No, no, no. Procedurally, colleague Šiška [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u134	Let him respond to me procedurally if we're without a minister. Because I would suggest that he be the Secretary of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u135	The procedure, Comrade Šiško, is intended for the President with regard to the use of the Rules of Procedure and Management. On other matters, however, another way of looking will have to be turned around; either to open up a topic or to have a debate on the committee and so on. In short, I would like to ask you to move on normally through the agenda item. You want a replica? Polnar Robert's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you, Chairman. To my respectable colleague Mihi Kordiš: I served the army in Niš in 1982 and 1983 in 211th Armory of the Yugoslav People's Army. That year, it was declared the best unit in the land army. In 1983, I was well aware of the strength of armored equipment and the power of antiplatelet assets. That was before you were born. That's why you can save yourself this kind of science as far as I'm concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, the proposaler of Micah Kordish wants the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr Šiško of the Slovenian National Party abused the procedural and very obvious trolling, but I am not in any position under the power to respond to this troll. I don't think we've had a defence minister in this country for a very long time. We have a minister for everything else: the Minister for the Purchase of Nate's Weapons, the Minister of Staffing NATO Pact, the Minister of Mission abroad, not only the Minister of Defence. Because nothing that's happening in our defence area is actually defensive. It is previously the Ministry of War – and the purchases of weapons are purchases for the occupation of abroad – rather than in any way related to the protection of people, their lives, their assets, which are stationed in this Republic of Slovenia. I expect the next government to change this trend. The next government actually has the opportunity to appoint for the first time after decades of failures at the Ministry of Defence a real Minister of Defence rather than a Minister of Staffing NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Just to remind you of your last intervention. You are preventing the application of Article 35a of the Defence Act, which allows for the activation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Procedurally Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you, Chairman. You have no business coverage for such interventions in the discussion with the chair. If you would like to discuss, Mr Tanko, you can, like any other Member, write to one of the cities reserved for the Slovenian Democratic Party, and from there you represent your views within the time frame of your Group of Members. And if you're already presenting your views, then it's good for the president to know what you're talking about. Let's say that what you mentioned is not Article 35a, but Article 37a of the Defence Act. Oops!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u141	Okay, I'll take that in mind, too. However, if you would like to argue with me, it would be good if you could tell me where I do not have coverage for such an intervention in the Rules of Procedure. Say it first. It's Article 37. I'm getting better. Procedurally Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u142	As long as the Rules of Procedure and its provisions allow the President, in terms of intervention in the discussion, the maintenance of the order at the meeting and the normal course of the meeting shall be held. None of these criteria have been met by you as chairman. And if you want to go against and against the practices and rules that apply in the National Assembly, it is you, the President, who must be the one who has to account for the plenary session, where you have the basis for such interventions, and not the other way around. Otherwise, I would like to move forward in the discussion or back to the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u143	Well, the chairman can certainly warn the debater not to speak in harmony with what he is doing in the National Assembly. And that's what I did. I didn't reach out to you, but I told you where you went in the diametric opposite of your debate since what you voted in the National Assembly. We continue the debate. Only Bevk has the word. He'll be followed by Dr. Matthew Tashner Watovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to remind you that we have proposed that the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces should be withdrawn from the agenda of the labour force by 2035. Unfortunately, coalition Members and Members of our arguments for withdrawal have not accepted, as we already have a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025. In 2010, the National Assembly adopted 73 votes in favour and 1 against. So we have a resolution, the resolution is in force, and in our opinion it is in line with the guidelines for the development of the Slovenian Army. The Ministry of Defence also has all the guidance and implementation documents enabling the operation and development of the defence system. However, as my colleague Gregor Židan said on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, our country's priorities have changed considerably as a result of the coronavirus epidemic. Today is about to solve the health crisis, health problems and, if you want, the coming social and energy crisis that is just outside the door. Today we are reserved both for the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 and for the proposal for a consultative referendum. We could avoid both of them, as has already been said, if we took our proposal into account at a meeting of the Defence Committee two months ago, where we proposed the withdrawal of this resolution from the agenda. In our view, firstly, we should verify the implementation of the Resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025, and secondly, the implementation of the long-term achievement of the level of development of the organisation and modernisation of the forces and the capacity and connectivity of the Slovenian Armed Forces with the fulfilment of the national interests and interests of the common European security policy and the NATO policy. It is only on the basis of this analysis that a new resolution should be drawn up, not a rush, as this existing, existing resolution applies to the entire next term of the government following the elections of 2022. However, since the Social Democrats are a serious and country-based party, we have in our programme until 2030, it is said for a period of two governments, including precisely designed security and defence measures. And let me just read you a little piece of this program. On the five sides, the area of security has been developed and the first paragraph states: "The existing legislation and strategic development and planning documents need to be examined in terms of urgent changes and additions, development synergies with other social areas in the form of concrete projects need to be sought, further proposals for the retention and acquisition of personnel for the Slovenian Army and the scope of possible forms of cooperation or service in it need to be expanded." And as a first step, we wrote: “A stable source of funding must be ensured, which will allow for the further modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, capable of national defence and the fulfilment of Slovenia’s international commitments, taking into account global movements.” So much for this agenda item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much. There's been a change. Andrej Chernigoj will get the word and Violeta Tomić will get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u146	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! In my debate, I will begin with the words I ended up with in the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, because I think they are very important for today's debate. I myself see in the operation of the extreme left in the field of defence the desire to dismantle the fundamental article of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, which could be compared with the unconstitutional partial disarmament of the Slovenian Territorial Defence. And let me mention that it has been almost 31 years since this condemnation of a valuable event this year, and I wish such acts were worth it in the future. In my personal opinion, the Slovenian army is an important subsystem of the Republic of Slovenia, which is always made available to the country. The Slovenian army is an important issue for citizens and citizens, and citizens and citizens themselves must be informed that the left side of the bell is beating solely because of the overcalculability to bring them more votes for the Slovenian Army in the next elections. In this place, the customer Left gives exclusive advantage over the well-being of his own country. On the one hand we have expertise, we have experts in the Slovenian Army, we have experts in the civil sphere and most of the customers in the National Assembly. On the other hand, we have only one client — the client of the Left. Citizens and citizens, judge for yourselves who fights for their own existence. To sum up the developments on the Defence Committee, a proposal for a consultation referendum on the resolution of the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces without the support of the Committee. On the Committee of the National Defence Council, most of them refused their support. The opinion that the proposal was appropriate received only a voice of support, 8 against it. It is said that Levica voted only for herself and did not impress her colleagues in the KUL coalition in her efforts. I will stress once again, populism and demagogism to achieve my own goals through the well-being of my own country. And that's extremely sad. If we look ahead, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service: The question to be the subject of the referendum must be clearly expressed. And unfortunately, we know that's not the case. The issue is explicitly populist and unworthy of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and especially the undignified Slovenian Army. And that's also what the opinion says. It is also quite eloquent, in my personal opinion, and I am very pleased that the proposaler has now come to the hall among us, because it is also quite eloquent that the applicant was not in the complementary explanation because he probably realized his mistake. Here I would also like to thank the Ministry of Defence and, above all, the Government, which has prepared a very comprehensive and very reasoned response to Levic, where she has fully answered all the questions, the thesis and the flooding that Levica has also raised in her referendum question. In Novi Slovenija we are trying to make the Slovenian Army a large and good subsystem in our country again, because we know that it has been neglected for years. I would also like to comment on the fact that the Minister of Defense cut through a number of Gordy knots with his work. Here we are talking mainly about the Defence Act, members and members after the 45th year and, above all, about the new strategy for the acquisition of personnel in the Slovenian Army. Here I have to deny the words of the representative of LMŠ, who mentioned that the number of members and members is decreasing. If we look at the statistics, it's from 1. 1. 2021 to 31. Ten. 2021 joined 210 members and members; during the same period 128 members and members left her. These are the numbers without a pension. This is said, the numbers are changing, the Slovenian Army is becoming more attractive than the employee in the Republic of Slovenia. Here is also a thank you to the Minister with a new team and in particular a new programme on a single entry point. The time between the application and the profession is reduced and then the three stages followed below. Here, too, I must point out once again my indignation that a person who does not have time to present and explain his own decision proposes a referendum which, if we conclude from the 2008 Financial Year, will cost 3 million euros, but, of course, money does not mean anything to Levica. Here, of course, this money could easily be invested in any health system. Before I finish, Mr. Proposer, in the past you have been very fond of associating with the military and you have been riding Mr. Chavez's plane - a very democratic leader, and his plane is also owned by the Venezuelan army. Here I have one such question, what must have happened to you on this plane by former President Chavez – a BBC member says that this is a plane of shame and a military aircraft – that you hate the Slovenian Army; at the same time, you praise the Venezuelan army and their dictatorship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much. You have the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you, Chairman. Chavez's plane is a civilian aircraft and used for civilian purposes. We could use a plane like that. We even have it, but it's not happening. Instead, Minister Tonin is buying a 72 million euro military aircraft. For 72 million Euros of damage to Slovenian citizens and citizens, this aircraft is intended to be provided on missions of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad within the NATO Pact. The current turbot was also used primarily for these purposes, regardless of how the Ministry of Defence or Members of the New Slovenia paint it to serve as a dual-purpose technique. That's not true. This aircraft has virtually one function, it is for Slovenian money, at Slovenian costs to service members of the Slovenian Army on missions abroad, who serve and pursue some foreign interests, of course not by their own choice, but by military political command, which makes them even abroad. Otherwise, Mr Nova Slovenije's debater could be less involved with us in Levica, for example, with the fact that the Government, as a proponent of this resolution, is the main opponent of our initiative to convene a referendum, of any field referendum, after all, today has not reported any time for discussion. What's more, there's no Minister Tonin in the Chamber with us, who's the Secretary of Defense. I don't know, maybe he's busy with smarter things. Maybe he found that truck mask he lost, and now he's rushing forward for the phototerm. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u149	My colleague Kordish, I suggest you discuss respectfully and in accordance with the rules of procedure. A representative of the department is properly teamed, and freedom is whether to report or not. Here you go. You have a debate ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you. You are once again in Parliament with me, President, without a basis. Maybe there is some truth about Minister Tonin finding that truck mask he lost, and now he's taking pictures with it, given that you jumped into the air.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u151	My friend, I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u152	Another tangent theme highlighted by the New Slovenia MEP, see how nice we are at the Ministry of Defence, we finally settled the status of soldiers after the 45th year. It should be pointed out that it has not regulated any status of soldiers after 45 years of this government, but has adapted the military system after 45 years of governing the status of soldiers so that it can be awarded to service personnel by comfortable servicemen within the military system. What are the staff? Those who are imaginatively, politically belong to the far right option, either SDS or New Slovenia. And it is no wonder that what New Slovenia calls the resolution of the status of soldiers after the 45th year was opposed by all the unions operating within our defence system. That is why, after all, they would be banned in Novi Slovenije as a party. So much for how much New Slovenia is a regular soldier and his working rights. Above all, we would like to abuse the position of the government and the Ministry of Defence in order to channel, as far as possible, the money of Slovenian citizens and citizens to foreign military industrial weapons complexes, which we do not need. To this end, also, Minister Tonin wants to rush into signing all possible arms contracts in order to embolden the alternative direction of the next government, where in the coalition of the democratic opposition, as candidates for the next term, we have made it very clear that we want to freeze military spending or to cancel unusable arms supplies.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much. My friend Starović, I'm just asking if I'm going to give the replica to Montenegro before we finish this debate, and then procedurally, do you want to do it now? Okay, here you go. Vojko Starović, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President. Again, I'm calling on you to stick to the agreement to keep the meeting neutral, the same for all sides. I agree with you that he was an unseemly candidate, but even more disgruntled was the previous speaker who threw mud, insinuations not only at Levico, but also at all the democratic opposition. First, we should warn him, and he should get not more than one warning, two, because he's working a commercial block again, which I think he should pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u155	Comrade Starović, I'm conducting this meeting properly, according to my assessment. If you think that I have not done this before, you can address the complaint to your Rules of Procedure Commission and we will deal with it there. A colleague had a proper discussion. But I will not allow any insulting, underestimating and similar debates. And you probably know that, don't you? And there is no need for us to be disrespectful in this national assembly. We will therefore lead the debate in accordance with the standards that once existed in this house. Procedurally, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u156	Presidents, I really suggest that you conduct the meeting properly, because at this point it is certainly not. As a member of the Left, you are constantly falling into the word, but on the other hand, the Right Tribune can afford to say anything, including instigation, lies and insults, and you are silent as a mouse. It is completely incomprehensible to me that, Mr Tanko, you are practically a veteran in this National Assembly to the point where I could tell you quite an inventory. I don't even know how many mandates you have on your belt, but you still don't run a session and you still don't know how to run it. I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u157	Comrade Kordish, I didn't say a word to you at first until you became disrespectful. You may have noticed this, especially in this last debate or in the last debate this has happened. You've had quite a normal discussion before. And every time you do, I'll warn you. But next time, I'll give you another warning if you keep doing this. We continue the debate. First the replica, Andrey Chernigoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u158	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. By discussing Mr Kordiš's proposal, I have been misunderstood many times, so I will use the possibility of a replica. I myself believe that the desire for popularity and populism, the demagogism to achieve its own goals before the well-being of its own country, is not in favour of the Slovenian Army. And the entire debate that my predecessor had before me can in fact be said that the Slovenian Left is an expert in the Slovenian Army, at least after they have spoken. On the other hand, in the entire eight years since the meeting in the National Assembly, Slovenian armies have never visited the field. That is why I have a legitimate question about their competence. Thanks for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The word is Violeta Tomic. She'll be discussed by Iva Dimic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's nice of you to say that you won't allow an insulting and underestimating debate, but, forgive me, it seems to me that when discussers are offensive and underestimated and unworthy to the Left, then you like it because you agree. But let's put this aside now. Mr. Chernigoy said we don't care about the well-being of our country. You will never convince me that what you say is the existence of a nation depends on how many weapons you buy or how many commissions they take for the sale of weapons; for we know where the greatest commissions are distributed. And I will not allow you, Mr. Chernigoy, to tell me that I belong to a party that is the far left. In Slovenia there is a Levica, a client of the Left. I can also repay you that you are an extreme right, even more than the SDS, especially since you've smelled the money. And duality and hypocrisy, your name is New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. All this demagogy we've heard is horrifying, especially by your client.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u161	My colleague Tomić, please, just a moment. Turn it off. The topic of extremes was initiated by a colleague of yours. He started your colleague on the far right and so on. Now you are repeating this with these discussions. And I told you before, there is no problem of discussing this subject respectfully; not of competing who will be more grave, more offensive, humiliating and so on. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u162	Chairman, take a look at the magnetogram. Montenegro called us the far left. And every time you cut me off, I'm gonna turn off my microphone, because it's really unacceptable that you're stealing from me the minute I'm scheduled to discuss. So where does the country defend itself? Where does the country defend itself? Keep it as far away from our borders as possible – Afghanistan, Iraq and so on. Because people object to our weapons being left in the hands of the Islamic State, the weapons that we have paid dearly, so that we do not get, I don't know, an apartment for young people or invest in health care, you oppose the referendum. Okay. As much as Slovenia is truly militarily threatened to defend it in Afghanistan, I'll tell you. While Nato's croaking weapons at the border with Russia, are we what? We have the Church Airport here. Thus, we would never have been slightly threatened or seen by any larger country if, for example, our territory were not to take off planes. How do you imagine that if there's a war? Where will those who want to stop Nate's planes shoot? On us, not on Washington. Why is the Cerklje airport so close to the Krško nuclear power plant? And you can also think about what would happen, not only with Kršč and around, but there all the way to Italy and Austria. You know, this is not the social consensus that you're referring to and that your Members mentioned some kind of disarmament of the Territorial Defence – yes, and who was the main actor in the arms affair? Your Janez Jansha. Who sold trucks and arms trucks and filled the lockers with money? Let me move on. 90% of Nate's operations are in the interest of imperialist forces. The European Union covers only 9% of the UN. And also that these 303 members of our army, who are, are strengthening very strange regimes, just like in Afghanistan, and Mali, where they are protecting the French interest and so on. That's why we're spending millions, please. 90% of the US budget spends on strengthening its geostrategic interests outside the Euro-Atlantic area. These are the words of Anton Bebler, who is a great advocate of Nate but. The Member States of NATO, however, spend 90% on ensuring security in EU space. In short, you're talking about fair burden sharing. Now tell us what is right or what we need if we think about who is making these threats to us. Who's threatening us? Who's going to attack Slovenia that we need so many millions? Who? And investments in health care between 2021 and 2023 are 36% lower than for military investments. And we know that we are facing problems and an epidemic that is medical is not a military threat. With 46,000 people working in health care and 6 000 347 in the military, according to these latest data. But we also have 696 reservists. You'll never be able to prove to me that professional soldiers need or require oshkoshes for foreign missions. The welfare of Slovenia does not depend on it, and national security does not depend on it. And it is really demagotic to speak here, Slovenia – a safe country. Yes, tell me if Austria is not a safe country, or Switzerland is not a safe country, but it is not a member of NATO. In short, when you're talking about investments, I don't think it's actually logical and reasonable and in the national interest, if you're talking about where the country defends itself, the armor boxer, which costs 412 million, health care 360. What are we gonna do with this boxer, tell me, really, what kind of security is it that these armored men are gonna parade here? Spartan plane – €72 million for housing policy – and if God will – €60. Our young people need security. Do you know what safety is? Safety is a safe job, not someone with a degree and a master's degree working for a minimum. We're here now. It's security, security that someone has a regular job that someone has the opportunity to rent a loan, buy an apartment and get to it at a normal price, those are priorities. And don't discredit us because weapons are not security, weapons are danger, weapons kill, respected Christian Democrats. It's not a vacation that can wash away death. Your Minister Tonin, but he is, I'll say, one such unfortunate figure. Really unfortunate figure, because I've been waiting twice for him to answer my question, he's been missing twice, once excused and twice unwarranted. And this is now a symbol of some reliability that cares for our military and security. Everybody's laughing at him. He's playing with guns like one kid. And if someone loses trucks with equipment, if they are unable to come by Members to answer the question the second time, while they have a phone, they do not report that they are late, given that a driver who is not able to afford it in time, even a ministry is not able to answer the question, it has not happened, as far as I know, perhaps you, the President, know that you are longer in this National Assembly, that the Minister has not been able to answer the question without words, given that he has already announced a month earlier. That, I'm sorry, is a disaster. I'll keep going. That minister called meetings and meetings and attacked every defense minister, which I remember because he obviously wanted to be able to play with his guns and shop. And I remember one session, I'll tell you exactly, it was January 22, 2020, go check when Tonin called the meeting and asked the then defence minister to tell you where the problem is that there are no rescue helicopters. You agreed unanimously on the Health Committee that 23 million cohesion funds are deliberately spent on a rescue helicopter, that there is no need and, of course, that this is a public service covered by the health department. [[…]] And I'm curious, but now that your Minister Tonin is himself a minister and with these insane millions of operations, he's found out what the problem is that Slovenia is buying oshkoshes, not supporting rescue workers, health care, firefighters, those who actually care about the safety of our people. You know, a soldier who's on a NATO mission out there somewhere very far, won't fly into Slovenia at the flood, while these people save our lives every day. So, what's the problem? Either he figured it out or he didn't, and we'll see about that. But please, now that you're answering and you're going to fly with the replicas, stop being offensive, stop being rude, respect the client who proposes something. And what does he suggest? He's proposing a referendum. You gave us $3 million for the referendum. And for that other track, you made two. And 3 million against all the millions you throw away is really small. We'd do a hell of a lot of fencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you, Chairman. Just as I had heard you say completely illegally, you have now interrupted her debate, colleague Tomić. And more importantly, you've justified your previous intervention with the wrong articles in the Defence Act. Now you have told your colleague Tomić to stop with this controversy about which party is extreme and why we have this controversy of principles, while in fact we have been attacked by the client of Nova Slovenija in our position as an extreme left. And it is they or your side of Parliament that started with this controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u165	So what's the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u166	I have essentially a procedural question, if you, the President, are okay if your health is okay and all because these slips are starting to multiply and repeat. Are you okay, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u167	Comrade Kordish, you have another reminder. Next time, I'll take your word and I won't give it to you again. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, be proper, be respectful. And that's the only way we can have a normal session and work on it. Any instigation, Comrade Kordish, but first look at yourself, do a little introspection, take a little look at yourself, take a little look at what it looked like sometimes, and then you'll accuse others of anything. Now we have a replica, Andrey Chernigoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Without a well-equipped and staff-completed army, there is no safe state. Without a safe country, we cannot provide prosperity for our people. So you are opposed to the welfare of the Slovenian people. Mrs. Violet, I wonder which of these is unclear to you. If you do not believe me, I should quote you from the Constitutional Court in a decision rejecting your request for a referendum: “The key building for the defence of the country in terms of its defence capacity and capacity (both at home and within the framework of the collective defence system) is the readiness and equipment of the Slovenian Army. This must be such as to ensure at least a satisfactory defence capacity of the State, which means that it must be able at any time (even in peace) to deter an attack, to defend the independence and integrity of the State and to participate in the collective defence system." Christian Democrats have been working for Slovenia since before independence, and we have also managed to win it along with others. And you've been working for someone else since then. Mrs. Violet, you're saying there's no way to provide security with a weapon. I'll use the case that's closer to you so you can understand it better. I believe you like partisans. Tell me what the partisans were up against, probably not with the pitchers and the pretty words. And all we want in this place is a modern army. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you. I ask you kindly, President, regardless of ideological differences, not to let young Montenegro tell me which side I'm on and that I'm working for someone else. Please! Someone who trades weapons collects commissions that, I don't know, live under the RCC all the time, which is just another country, somewhere else. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u171	Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u172	He has no right to speak to me. [[…]] It is procedural for me not to allow them to be so offensive from this New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. The people won't forgive them. Maybe their god will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u173	You don't have to be insulting either. You don't have to be intruding. I think I'm doing the right thing. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, if you don't, you'll complain if that's not right. There's no problem. [[advertising from the hall]] The Commission, Private Starovic. And I suggest you don't complicate things. Procedurally, Miha Kordish? Applicant, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, chairman. There's only two things I want to say. First time. The Partisans opposed the occupying army with effective guerrilla tactics, behind which stood an entire nation, united in a national liberation battle. And they didn't buy useless armor to occupy someone else. It's like the first thing and for starters. And the other thing. We are listening here from the right-wing tribune as we are in Levika against the well-being of the country, because we want a referendum where the inhabitants of the same homeland should express what social priorities they want. Will the money go into the weapons, or will the Slovenian boys and girls of war serve 10,000 miles outside the borders of our country, or should we do things differently? We prefer to give funds to social sub-systems, where we really need them and there is real danger and people are actually at risk. We talk about health care, we talk about housing shortages, we talk about home deficits for older citizens and so on. And it's very hard to listen to someone on the right talk about the well-being of the country, but at the same time, when he buys 412 million euros worth of armor, we have 250 000 who live below the poverty risk threshold. Four million of our people, our cousins, would say right over there - how do you help them? Absolutely not. 250 thousand poor people are pushed aside, but instead of saving poverty, money is directed at purchasing armory only to make money from foreign military industrial corporations. It's the treasure of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. My friend Kordish, I don't know if you've slept through this part of your term. All of this is now in the programme, budgets, development plans. Laws have been passed. Exactly what you're saying – about nursing homes, care projects, investments in health care and so on. You just have to tell the facts and the truth, but you have to put something on the line and push it. Now, in a row. Now I'm going to file a procedural application. Because obviously there's so much to go on. Procedural first, Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, colleague Kordish has, in his debate, gravitated to the content announced, to the item on the agenda. In each of its debates, as the majority of other Members have actually done. All those who discussed submitted themselves to the debate in accordance with the business provisions when they wished to submit their content or position. You, as chairman, jump into the floor and comment on any debate that is not convenient to you. I ask you to explain to us what business provision gives you this autonomy to do so. Every time the opposition Member comes forward with a position that is not close to you, jump with your criticism, as you have done now, in response to what Micah last discussed. He was talking about social priorities; whether the country's concern for 260 000 people living below the poverty risk threshold, or on the other hand, a million, billions of money to buy armoured and other unnecessary weapons that are not in any way serving the defence of the country, which is not militarily threatened but also by your political colleagues there talking about deep peace and security indexes and I don't know what the Republic of Slovenia has at its disposal. Please give me a business reason why you're discussing this when you're not discussing it. Why don't you take a seat over there, sign up for the debate? You have some debates in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Sign up like we all had to. Everyone else is running out of time to discuss, we're all looking at an hour, we're all limited in this way, except for Jozet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The second sentence of Rule 75(2) of the Rules of Procedure gives the President the right to take the floor and to take care of the order. Speaking the facts is not a contribution to order, but to disorder; and that's all I've warned and nothing else. I think it is the duty of the chairman to remind the debater to speak according to the facts, but not to lie and say things that are not facts. That's what I said. Come in. Jani Ivanuša has the next procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you, Chairman. I will be very brief, but regardless of the debate I would ask somehow through a procedural proposal to try to keep the debate a little more respectful on the one hand and on the other. Because the agenda is something else. What we hear here today, even though a broader debate is possible, but I would still ask that you stick to the agenda. To all step back a little bit and talk a little bit better here, otherwise it doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you very much. That's exactly what I'm doing. I have warned several times that discussions should be respectful, correct, not underestimating to discuss facts and not instigations and so on. And here I see no problem. In fact, the point of the debate is to argue things, not to start some pumping and populism with things that don't hold. The next one with a procedural proposal is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u180	Presidents, I must once again find that it is necessary to ask you, on a procedural basis, if you can conduct this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You're not doing this right now. Indeed, the business provision that you have stated allows you to establish peace at a meeting if this peace is broken, but not to comment on everything left and right. Despite your interventions, despite the fact that certain exchanges in the debate are slightly sharper, this meeting takes place normally. What makes it abnormal and counter-business cities is your intervention from the presidency; and these interventions – even when they are substantive, debateable – should not be – are, in addition, pushing past. Previously you cited the wrong articles in the Defence Act, then you misquoted and interrupted colleague Tomić, who said something in the debate, but now you have misspoke about development programmes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, while in this debate we have already highlighted figures that are disproportionately higher than investment in health care in the protection and rescue technique and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u181	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u182	My procedural proposal is, please, to conduct the meeting properly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, my question, given that you've slipped on the content for the third time, can only happen again if you're okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u183	My friend Kordish, I'll take your word for it. You won't get it for advance. As for the answer. It's true, I used to quote from memory the wrong article of the Defence Act, but you fixed it, I told you it was right, and the rest of it was true. And I do not allow you to take the debate and lead it in any destructive direction, nor do I allow it with various lies or definitions that do not have a basis, not in the decisions of the National Assembly so far, nor in the debates. You don't have a word anymore. You don't have another word. I took your word. No, you don't have a word at this point today. Natasa Sukič, please, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u184	Your Honor! However, I am interested, this is my procedural proposal or question, if you can explain to me where we can complain that this will be effective, because after the last experience of the disastrous leadership of the Education Committee, where we have not even received the debates, we should see how this is in this National Assembly, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, where all business has been broken. So where can we complain that the functioning of this State Assembly will finally be satisfied, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not the Rules of Procedure, as is the case more and more. And I'm sorry, your little bit broader falls in, too, and I understand that you're maintaining order and peace, but that you're discussing substantively in the middle of it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u185	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u186	But I don't think it's right. [[…]] And to be aware of this and to return the word to Mihi Kordish, because man is a proponent, here he speaks and must say his things to the end. He didn't do anything to get you to just give him up. This is my procedural proposal to explain to me where there is still a place in this National Assembly for an effective assessment of violations of the Rules of Procedure and a just resolution of situations, and to return Mihi Kordiš to, please, a word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I'm not giving Michi Kordish back his word. [[advertising from the hall]] There will be no more procedural, you have no more words. [[advertising from the hall]] Take it easy. I'm not blind. I can see everything. What you were asking me was where the complaint was. The Rules of Procedure Commission shall be the one dealing with all that relates to the application of the Rules of Procedure, including the holding of meetings. Vojko Starovic is the chairman of this commission. Procedurally, first of all, Primaj Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you very much. So, if I understand correctly, Mr Vice-President, you have taken away the word from the drafter of the agenda item, which means that by the end of the item the applicant will no longer come to the floor, which I think has happened for the first time in the history of the Slovenian National Assembly. In view of this experience in business practice, I would suggest that you suspend this meeting. And the next instance, the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly, is discussing this and we are even seeing how to work in this situation, because I do not know if the agenda item can continue at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u189	Of course, the agenda item will continue, I will not interrupt the meeting and we will conclude the matter as envisaged. But I warned him twice earlier that I would not allow any hints about any matter as to my condition. He can comment on his own, he can do it, and I won't allow it, and he won't get another word. Procedurally, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the EUR 5 billion that is being fought for arms, and you have done everything you can to silence the proposaler who deals with the content in depth. So what's it for? Please allow me to speak and take note of you on the Rules of Procedure Commission or anywhere, or outside this Chamber, I do not know, friendly, because there is no point in this muscle tightening. And we're going to continue the session, please, because it's not a joke. We're talking about heavy billions of money, public money. And you simply silence the Members who talk about it. It's just not right. This was the last time on the committee where we were silenced, and now it's repeating itself again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u191	My colleague, we are talking about a concrete matter in this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u192	and no Commission for Rules of Procedure, with due respect, will help, because neither the PPA College is helping anymore, nor is it helping any more, the timetables are not helping, nothing is helping here anymore. [[…]] So please, I propose, on a procedural basis, that we stop sending ourselves to different committees for the Rules of Procedure and so on, but that you, as well as you know, know the rules of procedure very well, stop doing this and let the Members hold their debate. We have been sent here by the electorate and the electorate to discuss, not to remain silent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u193	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. My colleague Sukič, I very nicely warned several times earlier that in the debates we should be respectful of colleagues who are in the Chamber, who are also discussing and also members of some political parties, like others. And that you're not pushing anyone's ass, because there's no need for that. I left the debate, an hour and a half running without a problem, an hour and a half, did not intervene at all, nor did your colleague Kordish or anyone else, until the mud started, teasing and so on. But that's where I reacted, and I'll always react. We will slowly conclude these procedural matters and move forward with the debate. Micah Kordish has no more words. The contract, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you. Look at the fragment, and all of a sudden the proposer has a word, if only to give an answer. Article 78, second paragraph, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Member may object to the withdrawal of the word. The objection shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. President, I demand an answer. And because I don't know if I'm going to have the right to speak or not, let me put this to a procedural conclusion by giving you a warning about the conduct of this session. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u195	Good. I'm putting a proposal to the vote. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I can't. We will first vote on the procedural proposal, then we will proceed with the procedural proposals. First of all, we are voting against the withdrawal of the word by Comrade Miha Kordiš. If his objection is accepted, then he will be given the floor if he does not accept the objection, but he will not get another word. I'm making a motion for a vote. Here's your vote. We're voting. There are no visitors. It wasn't meant to be. We are moving on to a second vote. We're voting. There are 46 present, 20 votes against 26. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] Michi Kordišu is taken away from his word. Slowly, please calm down in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Procedurally, first Natasha Sukich. Then go get Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u196	I would like to request that the College of the President of the National Assembly be convened on a procedural basis and that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you approve the suspension of the sitting for the left-wing Group for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u197	I'm adjourning the session in 45 minutes. We'll continue at 4:00. (The sitting was suspended at 15.14 and resumed at 16.01.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u198	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are proceeding with the meeting. The word is Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I heard today during the debate at this point, I can say that a lot of people are likely to be in pain, is the fact that Minister Tonin of the Slovenian Army has returned dignity after decades. The Slovenian soldiers were practically allowed to continue their careers in the Slovenian Army, wearing them, dressed them, briefly updated the Slovenian army. The Slovenian Armed Forces and the Slovenian Defence System are one of the key foundations of our statehood and are an indispensable element in ensuring the safety and well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Even though the Slovenian Army in the work of the Slovenian political environment is all too often presented as an unnecessary burden and cost on the general development of the country, it is necessary to realise that the latter is one of the key guarantees of long-term development, progress and prosperity of the country. The latter is also based on the fact that, as a sovereign entity contributing its share to common security, we are recognised in a wider environment that is key to our overall well-being. Unfortunately, we often only know this in crisis and emergency situations. Yes, currently the Slovenian Army is also helping us solve the covida-19 epidemic, and with its doctors and health personnel it also helps us all, I will tell the civilian part of the population. And I think it is right that members of the Slovenian Army and members of the Slovenian Army also, of course selflessly, come to help save lives and ensure security. In all these public debates on the future of the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian defence system, however, I wish to be able to talk and to overcome expertise, prudence, including constructiveness, especially what is really lacking – respect. Respect for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who work daily in the service of the country. That is why they need and deserve our support and, above all, modern and safe equipment and an advanced and properly regulated defence system. Not because of any political option of the leader or of the world view, but because of the need for a common awareness that the security and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia are fundamental values for which we must all work together. Therefore, it seems to me that it is necessary to look into the light and to respect all those who carry out this profession. There have also been a lot of unfavorable words spoken, but regardless of political interests and political views, I believe and trust that Slovenian soldiers and soldiers work for the good of the country and for our security, for the well-being of the Republic of Slovenia. And this is the foundation — a very important foundation, a democratic foundation — and it is right to keep it and keep it up to date, like all other systems. And there's no question here or-or, we have to have everything. And this government has assured it, and I believe it hurts. And once again, Minister Tonin has restored the Slovenian Army's dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Proposer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, respect is a word that might be used more than once in this discussion. Above all, respect for the people living in this country who need its support and solidarity. What is this respect for politics and the state summit for its citizens and citizens, and when we have more than 250 000 — more than a quarter of a million — below the threshold of poverty risk, those who cannot connect the beginning and the end of the month? In the National Assembly, however, we are considering a resolution that will be what by 2035? You helped these people? Reduce the risk of poverty? No, not at all. 5.4 billion, billions of euros earmarked for new, additional purchases of weapons that we do not need, and for additional assignments of Slovenian boys and girls abroad to operations, including 10,000 kilometers outside the borders of our country. For what? Certainly not for the welfare and welfare of citizens and citizens. To service foreign military industrial complexes and corporations wishing to acquire individual raw materials bases in third world countries, this is strong. That is why we say in Levica that people should speak about the resolution in question at the referendum. After all, every euro and every cent of 5.4 billion, as recognized by the resolution that will go into arms and in missions lost in areas where the crisis actually rules. For example, there has been a health crisis due to the fed public health system for decades, not even due to the covida-19 epidemic. And the housing crisis, where we need 10,000 public non-profit apartments where young people can't, rent apartments in Ljubljana, for example, fly to the sky. We have a crisis at home for older citizens and so on and so on. All these areas need additional funding from the state budget, and all these areas will be left without the necessary resources if the finances are recast into arms purchases and to increase Slovenia's participation in foreign missions. What is the relationship between the ruling coalition and the ordinary soldier, however, much is said by the fact that they have served on several occasions with the idea that the unions of soldiers and military personnel, namely those defending labour rights within the security and defence system, should be banned for a short time. Also, Minister Tonin did not save the status of a soldier after 45 years. This could only be done in a way that allows soldiers to extend the contracts even after this year. Instead, he accepted and brought to the National Assembly Minister Tonin legal changes allowing him to serve as a staff for those individuals within the army who are inherently on the line of the extreme right. This is not a solution to the status of soldiers after 45 years, it is an abuse of the problem of rewarding faithful people in the defence and security system, but should serve not individual parties or individual ideologies within the National Assembly, but all citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! Resolutions, laws and budgetary documents are indeed a criterion of values and a priority for the current government, whatever that is. And if we look at the work of this government, so these last 20 or 21 months, we see that if we throw on the scale that the priorities are actually in weapons. Otherwise, Minister Tonin says, for example, if we compare expenses for defence and health, this is his quote, "this is a ratio of 1 to 8, which I think is fair." Of course, he speaks for health care, but one thing is what's fair, and another is what's necessary. I think that there is no one in this Chamber who does not understand, in any public health, in any social, economic and other crisis at this time, and how important it is to think about social priorities in such a specific, so specific situation. And the most consistent are the numbers. The current government for health investments in budgets from 2021 to 2023 allocates 360 million euros and 36% less than for military investments, i.e. those 421 million euros, which do not include the Ministry of Defence's investment funds at all. And a few more comparisons. Boxers, for example, which we are talking about most in these days, which are 412 million euros, are essentially over 3 years of budget investment in health, that is 360 million. So the armory versus health, armored people – one shus, the budget shush in the investment in armory is more than three times the investment in health care. The numbers are self-sufficient. And given that such political decisions raise such an important social issue as a priority, in the case of investments in the military it is imperative to seek the widest consensus between people, people and people of the Republic of Slovenia. How much in this area, since it is clear to the majority of the population and the population, the referendum is avoided by the government, we have seen in our last year's experiment, already in that action with 780 million, the resulting call after the referendum, the mass support on the part of the people and then the very instant ban on the referendum on the title of the government. Since I have a little more time, I would like to respond to some of the debates that we have heard mainly from coalition Members and Members. Ambassador Chernigoj has repeatedly stressed in his fiery debate that the radical left is the political force that is trying to end the Slovenian Army, which is, of course, the winged by which they operate on their side of the parquet several times, and we always and every time stress that it is a pure fiction and a lie. But it is necessary to explain how we see the army in Levica. The Army isn't equipped. The army is not armored. The army, like any other collective, is in the first phase of human beings, they are soldiers and soldiers. And these soldiers and soldiers in the Slovenian Army right now, watch out, for a normal salary that they can live with in some middle class and are provided with social security, they have to do what? Going on a mission, risking your life for peace and security, and I don't know what. But in fact, to serve some of the capital interests of some foreign sovereigns so that they can actually survive normally, which of course also supports the conclusion that the number of soldiers and soldiers in the military has decreased by a thousand in the past ten years. For this solution here too, government representatives, there is no mandatory service of military service, more reason for one fear of further militarisation of society or whatever. If, in my first response to the debates, I will also conclude by agreeing with my fellow Member, Joseph Horvat, who says – Slovenia is in deep peace, in a state of deep peace, as all the international institutions' security indices bear witness; and it is true that this is the case. Slovenia is not militarily threatened, Slovenia is at risk of social, economic, health, school and so on. And it is late that this is also recognized by policy, government policy in this particular case or at this time. However, if this finding is difficult for the current government to come to, it is the only possible or only most fruitful way to easily ask citizens, but it is possible to swallow some bitterness for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Procedural proposal? It's a replica. You have the word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, last year we turned negative human resources trends in the Slovenian Army. In 2020 we recorded 100% more employment in the Slovenian Army, 2020 – 222, 2019 – 111. And in these cases and in these numbers, I was misunderstood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, chairman. As regards personnel numbers in the Slovenian Army, the following should be highlighted. First of all, the lack of soldiers, the lack of human resources, which we are constantly listening to, is not based on any objective facts, it is said that we would actually lack soldiers, but it is an incomplete composition to the number that military bureaucrats at the Ministry of Defence have devised. And it's not based on absolutely nothing like the appetites of military bureaucracy and certain ideological structures; and that's all. However, we have been constantly listening for years, not only to today's debate on how the Slovenian Army lacks staff, but in recent times that Minister Tonin has managed to reverse this trend. Let us put the matter into perspective with some other subsystems that we have in this country, for example, compared with the homes of older citizens and nurses. For millions and millions of years and a half, this government has been throwing for the purpose of recruiting Slovenian young boys and girls, into military uniforms; and no comparable effort is seen when it comes to the field of health and nursing staff, such as nurses. These missed priorities are fully included in the resolution that we are considering today. More Slovenian boys and girls on American missions around the world and even more Slovenian public money, which should be foreign military industrial complexes, for weapons we do not need. Even if they were militarily threatened, but the shells for any defence of national territory are not really appropriate, they're too heavy, they're too wide, they can't drive over half our forest country at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Today's debate is on a consultative referendum on the resolution on the development and urgent equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The proposal is based on the call for an advisory referendum in order to ensure that this government does not have support for people, nor for the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army, nor for any euro in advance. However, if we want the military to remain in good condition, we need modern equipment, technical means, and therefore without the provision of financial resources, we cannot. In 2019 the Resolution on the National Security Strategy was adopted and it also stated that there was an increasingly risky security environment, an uncertain security environment. Therefore, because we are aware that somehow the medium- and long-term development goals set so far have not been supported by the necessary resources, we have what we have. And today it's not really about us giving a lot of extra money, it's about us putting out that fire that we didn't actually prevent before. And this army was actually in a very bad condition, with bad equipment. If the proponents say what this army really is, I'm not saying they're not against the military, but if you don't give them money for food and money for clothing and money for equipment, then you clearly don't want it and destroy it. We can't give today's modern soldier an M48 rifle and put it on rubber boots. That's why these soldiers of ours need modern equipment, some resources. And now to say that because the military is being given the necessary, the necessary equipment is being taken elsewhere, and it is not right. I think that misleading, led by the Slovenian Democratic Party, has achieved success in the field of economy, infrastructure, employment and work despite the epidemic. Finally, it has turned a downward trend for both health care and long-term care, and has also adopted legislation on investments in the field of housing for all sectors, all areas, namely, the military, health, social, education and so on. It is not right that a referendum that is human rights is so easily invoked, but that it refers to such an easy referendum on our security. This government somehow wants to lead Slovenia in the direction of the principles and directives of the European Union and of the Alliance and, of course, to return the Slovenian Army to some normal, European comparable framework. If we are to say that the proposaler estimates that the consensus is not that people do not support it and so on, then I must also say that the proponents, because of, I don't know, not knowledge or intentionally, even in terms of deception, do not mention where our Slovenian army is all involved. It participates in international operations and missions under the Organization of the United Nations, then the European Union, then the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. And for these participations in these missions, of course, they must have comparable equipment, as do other armies of the European Union and other allies. And that's why it doesn't work. We do, if we make some commitments, then we also have some responsibilities to these commitments, although I must say that these responsibilities are the Spanish village for our proponents. And once again, to the referendum question, I think it is very unclear, I will say, even misleadingly, it is also wrong to actually scare young people, as if some service would be introduced and so on, but what the Legislative and Legal Service has also said – referendum issues must be clear. And the clear referendum question, respected by the proponents, would be if our citizens asked our people at the referendum clearly: Are you in favour of keeping Slovenia safe, so that you can create and sleep peacefully at night? And it would be the answer of all the people: We are to sleep peacefully and to have an army. And then if you ask our citizens and our people – Are you for your children to go to school safely, are they safe in school, play safely in parks and sports courses? — would be the answer: Yes, we are for our children and us to be safe. So, of course, I will vote against the referendum on the security of Slovenia, and I also appeal to all my fellow Members responsible, and I hope that in most cases they will oppose the call for an advisory referendum on the adoption of a motion for a resolution on the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is also national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The motioner has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, chairman. Again, we have heard a steady bouquet of how soldiers should wear and wear that they must have good food, clothing, boots, somehow in opposition to the fact that we do not have this right now, which is not entirely true. Even if it were, the government of Janez Janša does not deal with it, nor does it deal with the resolution that we are proposing to go to the referendum. You don't buy food, clothes, boots, but you buy guns, armors, helicopters for special forces. Even cannons, hoodies, are included in the resolution. This is the money in which this resolution and this government would recast public funds, the money of all citizens and citizens. And not to some extent innocently, we are talking about 5.4 billion Euros of funding by 2035. That's a lot of money. And if this expenditure actually occurs, the short straw will be drawn by all citizens and citizens, because the money will run out of their basic necessities of life, from infrastructure to hospitals. Because there will be no additional resources to be taken if, to such an extent, we throw them into foreign military industrial complexes and into expeditional corps in the Middle East, sub-Saharan Africa, and I do not know where else, in these areas of the world, which you say the security environment in them is changing and that Slovenia should therefore be threatened. Is the security environment really changing on its own, as you imply? No, no, no. The security environment changes exactly those of our allies within the NATO Pact, from which we buy weapons to help them change this security environment on their missions – countries to occupy, occasionally military intrusion and so on. No one issues peacekeeping missions, including the Slovenian Armed Forces, but unfortunately it is only 1% under the auspices of the United Nations if we cut the participation of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces on missions. An additional 9% of missions are carried out within the European Union and these missions are not entirely innocent. For example, the Slovenian army in Mali serves the interests of French imperialism and supports one of the factions in their civil war. However, peacekeeping missions are not envisaged in this resolution as those broad external orientations for the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but the resolution is very clear to know that members and members of an even larger number should also participate in missions that are not of a peace nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Because I find that yes, I'm going to trigger the list. Please report to the one you want to discuss. Applications for the debate shall be made. If the applicant and the representative of the Government apply, they will be given the last word. Boris Doblekar has the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I was not registered for the debate, but I still have to take a call because I listened to several discussions throughout the day, which, by the way, might have been in place, but remained more than some political and political struggle on the shoulders of Slovenian soldiers and soldiers. The fact is that Slovenia needs an army for defence purposes. Here to talk about some offensive intentions is completely depressed, out of place. For collective security we have decided Slovenians and therefore we have both the Slovenian Army and we are associated in NATO, where together with other countries we protect our countries or our territory. But to listen here by the proposer after the referendum on the people, I don't know what it is, of course, this institution is once again abused as much as possible. Of course, people need to be asked. The people are represented by us, Members and Members of the National Assembly, because we were also elected. And if there was so much trust in the left hand side, you probably wouldn't have to ask the people afterwards. The left and increasingly the opposition are using the symbols of the Yugoslav People's Army, the red star, so that we do not forget it. We can't forget that. Therefore, of course, it is perfectly clear to me that you have such a relationship with the Slovenian Army, Slovenia. JLA had a red star on its tanks, hats, party books, and the KUL Coalition continues to do so in Slovenia. How many billion has the JLA army spent, so this army of yours, whose symbol you wear, how much tax money it's spent, you can find on Google. You can see what this army has done with money, with people, and what it has done with this symbol that you like to wear and shit with. And you continue to attack, continue to attack both the Slovenian Army and Slovenia alone with the debates I have heard today. You are not concerned or interested in the security of Slovenia, but in the European Union of all countries united in NATO. You're not worried about the poor or the work salary, you're up against the job salary raise, that's clear, that's what you've already said. And as I hear from your discussions and from these proposals after the referendums, you don't like the Slovenian Army either, you don't want to be staffed up and equipped according to the best standards. Have you ever heard of an anthill or bees? Have you ever heard of this? Ask yourself, if you do not know, and you will soon find that this community of ants or bees would not survive without its army, and so the army has a decisive role to play in their existence. And that's the way it is in countries, you have to remember that. Without soldiers, without community protection, there is no community. She's not here. And of course you're running this populism, first-class, first-class. You have advertised the Yugoslav People's Army, i.e. the aggressor, with its red stars, which the Slovenian Army has not used in over 30 years. You advertise socialism and communism. Of course, Slovenia with such debates and these nebulos you want poverty, chaos, anarchy, you do not respect our tradition and history, given what we listen to. And the proposed referendum after the same hoof as the Water Act, entirely after the same hoof. I'm a first-class populism. That's where you abused the water. That's where you abused the army. Unfortunately, with populism and lies and the activation of your army with Metelkova 6, for which, of course, you never hurt money, you never hurt money for your army, and you manipulated people in a water referendum; this time you regret it or luckily will not succeed. And that is why, in the end, only – I cannot support this proposal because I love the Slovenian Army and Slovenia. Long live the Slovenian Army!
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u214	That's right. Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u215	Mr Doblekar now had the whole squadron and he was talking about everything, except the topic on the agenda, not. We've heard of the aggressor, JLA, the red stars, the Water Act. Please kindly, because it is right that you are very tolerant as your predecessor from the types of SDS that jumps into the luft when he does not like the topic and when he especially dislikes the content, but what Boris Doblekar has now enjoyed speaks much more about him than we do about us and about the topics that we are discussing because he has confused everything. We know who disarmed the Territorial Defense. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u216	My colleague Violeta Tomić, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u217	It's procedural for him to stick to the darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u218	No, Violeta, it's not. The procedural proposal is a procedural issue with regard to the application of the Rules of Procedure, not a disagreement with what someone has said. If we move on like this, they'll be on their own, on your own, procedural proposals, and you'll argue. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. Did I skip anybody? Yeah, mag. Branca Grimes. He's got the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The great humanist and nominee for the Nobel Prize Mr. Vaclav Havel wrote down the essence of the modern left many years ago – the lie is the immortal soul of the left-wing. And today we are talking about the referendum proposed by the Left. In fact, Levica is now proposing two referendums. The first is to prevent workers from getting higher wages. This is indeed the achievement of the modern left of the first category and tells a lot about where this thing is actually going. Can you imagine Levica trying to stop workers from paying higher wages, net wages, what a worker gets in his pocket to make it worse?Oh, my God! How'd you get your password? Poverty for everyone, not just a handful. Well, you're doing it well, I must say. And in the second proposed referendum, you say you're advocating that we don't spend money on guns. Unfortunately, the modern world has to be defended at times. We are also in the neighbourhood of the Balkans, where unfortunately the boiler is always babbling. Even if you follow the latest Dodiks and other statements down in Bosnia, there is no need for things to get very mixed up there, regardless of Europe and NATO's efforts to preserve peace. Thus, we must rely primarily on ourselves and for the defence of Slovenia, our country. It's about the safety of people. In doing so, you are constantly entwining with the observations, the allegations that are actually provocative, with which you harshly insult the Slovenian Army, all those who participate in the efforts for the security of Slovenia, you take them into account. No Slovenian in Slovenia has participated in any occupation mission or similar activities. And any such hint is a grave insult and I would personally suggest to the Slovenian Army that it also sues that once and for all this demagogy ends. However, as far as weapons are concerned, what I am mentioning today is for the third time this week alone. However, I have said this a number of times in this National Assembly, and look at the miracle, none of the central media has ever written it in such a form, even though I have shown each of these things with documents, I can show them again if necessary. Besides, you all know that's true. Neither does anyone deny, but silence is only – where silence whispers. And what is the essence of the story with increased armament of Slovenia, with the obligation to do so? The first committed himself to the increased armament of Slovenia, including indirectly by purchasing armory 8x8, Mr. Tone Rop, LDS, the leftist government. In doing so, by the way, he broke the law because he did not notify the National Assembly in advance, but only after he had already sent this in writing abroad did he go to the National Assembly for confirmation. After him, this was further distributed by the next government under the leadership of Mr Pahor, in which the SD was the key. And then Mrs Alenka Bratušek, as Prime Minister of the Government, sent a new commitment, in which she recommitted in writing to increased weapons, the leftist government again. [[Incomprehensible]] And in her time, after I knew it, that additional choice, where it was decided to boxers, was already completed for vehicles that some were going so hard into their noses. This was again decided by the leftist government, even if it was the time of the next government, this government was also leftist. Well, finally, the final decision was sent in writing in 2018 by Mr Marjan Sarec to Mr Stoltenberg. You can check that out too, ladies and gentlemen. All key decisions on increased armament of the Republic of Slovenia, all commitments were made at the time of the left governments. Here you refer to those who try to either in Parliament or in the government, or in the Slovenian Army to keep your words abroad, in order to preserve the reputation and credibility of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. And thus, of course, a positive assessment when it comes to the search for economic cooperation, economic allies, investors and, of course, all who can contribute to faster development of Slovenia and, of course, to greater Slovenian security.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u221	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Let's get this out of the way. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, according to the vast majority of Members in the National Assembly and in the opinion and assessment of the Government, the subject of today's decision at the proposed consultation referendum is unclear. The referendum question, as set out in the proposal for a referendum under consideration, is misleading and also unclear in this respect. It is not clear from the question whether the question relates to the motion for a resolution as a whole or only to the individual parts of the motion for a resolution raised. I, too, am deeply saddened by today's debate, where experts for all, including the Slovenian Army, proved to be. In the entire history of service in the National Assembly, in all eight years since they attended the National Assembly, they have never attended the Defence Committee in the field; and unfortunately they also seem to have never visited Slovenian forests. Let me say to their surprise that forest trains are very well arranged and also wide in Slovenia. It's over. I personally believe that in the work we have seen in recent months, in the operation of the extreme left in the field of defence, we see a desire to dismantle the fundamental article of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, which we could seriously compare with the non-state-efficient partial disarmament of the Slovenian Territorial Defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I wasn't going to call at this point at first, but every time the representatives of the Left came to the left, they literally stabbed me, and I said, "A mistake." And now I have this moment to correct this mistake. Shame, shame, shame, respectable lefties. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, and that's someone else laughing at it. Humiliate the Slovenian Army, make it an internal enemy. So where are you taking this country? And you're going through some populism, because if you don't need an army, you don't need an army, you don't need an army going abroad. What do you even know about her foreign army?Oh, my God! Nothing, you don't know anything about soldiers going on a mission, you don't know anything about what their families are going through at home, and so do they. But that's where they help. They're not there for what you say they're going to war and attacking civilians. A lie, a lie and a shame, what you say. How much help did they do there, you know? Do you even know what they were doing? It is not surprising from your discussions that then the journalists of the type of heartburn who speak at a time when the Slovenian Army helps even Slovenian hospitals with their personnel that it is a fascist army. This is from his Twitter account, and it's all coming from your discussions. Not long under the left government that you supported, the Slovenian Army not only did not have clothes on, but their salaries were such that they did different jobs this afternoon, and they also gave their plasma. What's more, they went for humanitarian packages, they fought for when someone would be on duty and when someone could go on a mission to support their family. And you would have picked that up. Destroy, tear, for this is an internal enemy, and we know how to deal with an internal enemy. Kind of like the way Left does on Twitter about me today. It's a lie and a deception. Again, a lie and a deception, Comrade Miha Kordish. None of this is true.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we return to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u225	And I'm going back to the debate. The fact is that the Slovenian Army needs equipment; we need equipment; and we need the Slovenian Army. And there's no question here whether-or, of course, other systems need it. Other systems need financial support too, and we're doing it. [[…]] We put money in health care, we put it in education, but also in the Slovenian Army. So it's not a question of whether — or, but also — and. And that government is doing it. But under yours there was no no or — or no and — and, but there was nothing — nothing. I don't know where you put the money, but there was nothing. There was nothing in the area of health care, nothing in the field of education and nothing in the field of the military. That's what your governments do. But there were quite a few studies where millions of people have gone out, and so on. And of course I support any resolution that helps the long-term programme and somehow helps to keep the Slovenian army equipped. And as my colleague Grims has already said, the equipment of the Slovenian army is not just, I will say, the time or operation of this government. The Slovenian army or some key decisions have even been taken under the left governments. But with you, of course, you deny that quickly if you don't get into the context of your ideological scheme. And please, proposers, don't fool people. Come on, go play a fair game, a fair fight. And yes, it isn't, or — or, it is, and — and — and unlike you, there is nothing — nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u227	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. All those accompanying this debate are well-respected and well-welcome! Many were said in the good four hours. Unfortunately, there is also a lot of snorkeling by members and members of the Slovenian Army, according to the Slovenian Army. In fact, Slovenia is a safe country. Slovenia is currently one of the safest countries in the world. And since I personally wish to remain so in the near and distant future, of course I will not support the proposal for an advisory referendum. On the contrary. I support that the Slovenian Army also has the resources necessary for its existence, which are necessary for its operation. But today's debate has shown much. She showed that apparently in Levica not only against high, higher, better wages for all who work and create prosperity in Slovenia, but also against a safe country. Taking a closer look, this is probably not such a surprise. It's probably for your better chaos and anarchy, which is somehow consistent with your ideology, in which you're used to and eager to rule. And this also proved to be true in today's debate after what you said. For you, it is obviously a waste of money for those who care that we are safe in Slovenia. At first you insulted doctors, now you insult soldiers and soldiers. Or is it because soldiers and soldiers, including members of the Slovenian Army, are also helping to combat the covida-19 epidemic? You will likely answer that question yourself. For you, however, it is no harm to give money, when you were also a super-coalionist party, to NGOs, especially those based on Metelkov 6, when you gave money for studies, how something can or cannot be done. This goes to tens of millions of euros. That wasn't a waste of money. However, when a resolution is adopted, which will in the long term mean a stable Slovenian army and that Slovenia will be a safe country in the future, that is the problem. Just as the problem is that people will have higher wages and that they will be able to spend more, they will enjoy more and that they will have greater prosperity. This is also a problem for Levi, because, as it is said, your natural state is of course chaos and anarchy. And let me just conclude that for more than 4 hours the debate just shows and proves once again who is in Slovenia for the development of Slovenia, for the advancement of Slovenia, and who is the one who is breaking down – who is tearing down higher wages, who is tearing down a safe country and who is breaking down where it breaks down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kordish, you will have your word in no time. I suggest. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, if there's no procedural proposal, I'll take your word for it. Okay, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you, Chairman. My procedural proposal is that you conduct this session a little more actively or proactively than at the moment. But not because of you, but because of the debates that are falling on the air, and I would like you to protect the integrity of us in the Levica that we are participating in this debate. Look at what we hear — that we are an internal enemy, that we oppose the rise of labour wages and similar pathological lies, profanity, murmuring, screaming. Well, that's not normal. We are encouraged to say that I do not know what things about members and members of the Slovenian Army and I do not know what else. Well, that can't go on like that. Will anyone really be able to say anything? Spit everyone in the face and it'll go through normally. And he lied and lied and lied just to hold on to it, to discredit someone. Here I ask you, because some of these cases have been very strong across the border, that if they continue to repeat themselves, the presidents, intervene, protect our integrity and remind the debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I think the motion is in place. I suggest you abstain from being rude. Let the debate be as reasoned as possible. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u231	Thank you very much. By the way, if you allow me to mention the way of debate, if you need to remind someone about how to proceed in the debates, it was Leftica, who we witnessed on the Education Committee last Friday. I don't know who it is who can throw the first stone. If I go into the dark. The state must have its own army. A state without an army is practically gone. The country must ensure the safety of citizens and citizens. Safety and health are the first good that a person needs, and so is justice. We have the right to be safe. But we'll be safe if we're protected by a well-equipped army. Our army is part of Nate, and we also owe it to the commitments we made to Nate. Then he will defend us when necessary, but we too must respect these commitments. Let us see what is happening today at the borders of Ukraine, and we will no longer be in such good will. You need to be good at anything all the time. We are, of course, pleased to have peace and that we are, in fact, the fifth safest country in the world. This is true for all our decision makers, both the Slovenian Army and the Police, as well as for the citizens and citizens we are helping to do so. So whoever opposes the Slovenian Army opposes Slovenia. And this relationship is despicable. You can worship a culture of poverty, because as much as you speak, you actually worship it. It is necessary to work against poverty in a way that the economy is successful and that people can deserve to be healthy, to work and to earn. If you want to share money immediately at source, this means that you also want this money to be lost somewhere in a variety of studies – about studies, about homes, where there is no home for the elderly, but there are many studies, or there should be a lot of studies. So to support any referendum in the sense of avoiding equipment and equipping and maintaining our army is completely unreasonable. Slovenia must remain a solid, solid country, a partner of NATO, as it should be, dignified, not that our soldiers will walk around and that we will receive bad grades year after year. We're solid partners. Although we are few, we are much more solid and firm partners. And the Slovenian Army is one of the great guarantees for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u232	Micah Kordish has the word as the last.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, chairman. Because in recent discussions we have lost the red thread, which is actually the point of the agenda. The agenda item is an initiative to call for a referendum on a resolution that would throw an additional 5.4 billion euro in addition to the existing arms budget by 2035 for the acquisition of weapons and missions. It's an astronomical number. The funds that would go to this end will be lost in areas where people actually need urgent action from public health to public health. And I'm listening to the right tribune, which is talking about the Slovenian Army up, the Slovenian Army down, and he's buying weapons for the NATO liaison. A military technique that we can't use to defend our country even in the most arbitrary interpretation. Armours, which are at the core of such concepts of the Slovenian Army, are too wide, too heavy, useless for any case of actual military aggression against our country. They're only suitable for third-world patrolling, like an expedition corps with American interventions, and nothing else. In military technical terms, shellfish are in fact clay pigeons, especially when they operate without air cover. These weapons use occurs solely because of pressure from NATO, and this is less pressure from the plant due to any security threat, and more so because the generalities of NATO have changed into commercial passengers of the military complexes of the largest nuclear states within NATO. It basically buys weapons to make international weapons profit. But the more security is in here, the more precise it is to be defined as aggression, the more occupation it was, for example, in Afghanistan. And, of course, in defence of ambition, after all citizens' and citizens' money is burned for foreign military industrial complexes, then advocates of this resolution are lying pathologically today; and so much so that they are taking pictures of the argument why we need every euro for public health, not for weapons. We are listening to how we are against higher wages in Levica, while the government is actually lowering taxes for rich people through tax reform. Tell me who will finance the social state if a tax reform is adopted, which will take 800 million euros a year, and a resolution and some additional arms law that would give 5 billion over the next few years and something else for weapons. For there will be no money left for virtually nothing but a few privileged bureaucrats and political officials, and perhaps a police officer who will have to trample on dissatisfied people and throw tear gas at them. And then the story will be over. There will be no euro for social, there will be no euro for infrastructure, development and so on. 50 Nobel Prize winners were sent to the United Nations in writing to reduce military spending by 2% per year globally in each country over the coming years. On the big night of this year, the pope – your ideological figure, called and condemned the escalation of weapons across countries. Logically, of course. Slovenia is not militarily threatened in any way; it is at risk of social, health, development and otherwise. Here are areas where we have to make money, not with some cheap accusations and flossules, we deny people in this country who are supposed to be defended by weapons, how ironic, fundamental democratic right, which is the right to referendum decision. Here in Levi, let us insist that any spending of money on weapons and increasing Slovenia's participation in NATO's occupation missions is a matter of fundamental priority, where we are going as a society and the country, and is something that citizens and citizens should talk about with the vote box at the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the vote. I hereby end this agenda item and the 28th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 17.01 and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u235	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in the following order: 14, 2, 7, 18, 17 and 22 on the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 12. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Investments under the Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 8. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Sector System of Wages in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving forward with the decision on the proposal for a law. [[advertising from the hall]] Louder? They're gonna give jobs a little louder, and you guys, please listen. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 40. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: A consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 is open. Miha Kordish, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levica, we propose an invitation to a referendum on the subject of a resolution that will allocate an additional EUR 5.4 billion to foreign missions and new arms purchases by 2035. This is a huge amount of money that people in this country need elsewhere than in various cannons and armors. We have public health care, which has been fed for decades and has been in crisis before the covida-19 outbreak occurred. We have the homes of older citizens in which such an investment has not been invested enough for decades, so we have 12,000 people waiting in line for bed. Young people can't make up for themselves, and they can't make it to their apartment because these apartments are too small. Rents, for example in Ljubljana, fly to the sky. At least we're missing 10,000 public non-profit apartments. We can't build these, either, if we're going to spend money on foreign military complexes. Here is still the biggest challenge of the 21st century, this is the climate crisis and climate failure, which will also need mass investment from the public funds of the Republic of Slovenia, which will not be possible in any way, in development, or in transport, or elsewhere, if limited budgetary resources are to be consumed by a commitment to the NATO Pact, which citizens and citizens have never signed and never decided on. The 2003 referendum on accession to the NATO Pact did not include in any way the idea of a current policy to buy eight-wheelers to buy quadricycles to buy cannons in the future. Therefore, the resolution, which is supposed to be a social consensus, as illustrated by the current government of Janez Janša, is a suitable step in which all citizens and citizens are to be cut out and thus tell us where to take steps in the next decade according to political priorities. Is it really a waste of money on weapons, or would it not rather be spent on infrastructure, social, public health and so on? According to all the information we have, the vast majority of citizens and citizens spend money on buying unnecessary weapons and further sending Slovenian boys and girls abroad strongly opposes. This is also why John Janša, with his friends in the National Assembly, banned the 780 million weapons referendum once and also opposes the call for a referendum on the current resolution. To conclude, I hope that when we vote, we will not be faced again with the case of a Member mixing through another Member's voting machine, and that the vote will be legitimately carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u237	We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 48. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the organization for cooperation in joint defence (OCCAR) on the management of the Boxer programme on the side of the OCCAR. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u238	Colleagues and colleagues! I quote: “There are problems arising from Slovenian legislation, which makes it impossible for foreign doctors to carry out their profession on their own. Therefore, the UKC had to consist of teams, including Slovenian doctors and military doctors. There are two things. Either the Slovenian Defence Minister does not know the law, or nationalist pride has also infected health care on the other side of the border." This is what journalist Mauro Manzin wrote two days ago in the Italian daily Il Piccolo. And this is what they think of our minister in Italy – that he does not know Slovenian legislation. So much for its credibility and how we will spend EUR 400 million on the armoured personnel we confirm today. Two questions are essential. Does the Slovenian Army need investment? Of course they are. The second question is whether the Slovenian military needs to invest in this way, as this government and this ministry with Tonin have now done. Let us remember that it is the government of Marjan Šarc that has, for a long time, reversed the trend of investing in the defence system of Slovenia; but realistic, transparent and, above all, responsible, based on real needs and real opportunities. Today, we are witnessing a completely different story. A huge budget deficit, where the government relies on future growth, is not a good road map for the future. It is not a good holiday for the investments that I stress once again are necessary. Now we are set before the ratification of the contract for the purchase of heavy armoured personnel, and their price is rising from month to month, from committee to committee, from presentation to presentation. Once again, we will perform an extremely non-transparent purchase of equipment, military equipment, which has been traditionally accompanied by various affairs in Slovenia. The last purchase of Minister Tonin — a transport aircraft — is already missing. The minister bought a plane that the U.S. Army retired because it's too expensive to use. But with us is money, tax money, collateral. We're just gonna take another loan, aren't we? That is why I once again point out the difference between us and you, between the LMŠ and the SDS coalition, Nova Slovenija, SMC. We advocate reality, fairness, legality, transparency, and above all responsibility. Responsibilities to all state subsystems, and in particular to people. What you're defending, we see. Stubborn insistence at your own, no matter the cost. The LMSH is against such irresponsible behaviour. We have better ways and realistic options, but you both reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! You will most likely agree with the assessment that the Republic of Slovenia has not had a happy hand in the last 30 years or that some have had too much hands in this regard. However, the direct link with the current and former and former Prime Minister of the Government and former Defence Ministers is irrefutable, and I do not think there is anyone here who would deny anything here today. The Ministry of Defence was also run by the Social Democrats. It was then led by Minister Andreja Katič, I am talking about 2018, which also gave an initiative to conclude an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms on the management of Boxer. This joint organisation shall bear the name OCCAR. Information on the progress of the process of buying bicycles 8x8 for the construction of a medium battalion battle group was also provided by the then Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, by the competent committee – the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence. The estimated value of the project, which also included the cost of buying 48 boxer vehicles and adequate logistical support, was, at the time, EUR 306 million. However, from the 2018 proposal to date, the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR has changed considerably, even though the approach to the Multinational Boxer programme under the international organisation OCCAR is in principle not controversial. In fact, no cost has been incurred so far by the approval of the law. However, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Defence had an offer in 2018 on the basis of which a proposal for an agreement and an open possibility of negotiation could further reduce the price. Now the Ministry of Defence does not have such an offer, and this is a key difference. In accordance with the 2018 procedure, 48 vehicles were envisaged to be purchased and, according to the current plan, they are slightly less than 45. And that means less vehicles for more money. Current vehicle prices are unknown, but significantly higher prices are expected, including 15 % at annual level, than those in 2018, also due to an increase in material prices over the last two years. In 2018, the price of one car was EUR 4.8 million for vehicles delivered in 2025 and the price was EUR 6.2 million. The difference is significant, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about a million and a half per piece here. What concerns us, Your Honor, is the dynamics of production and supply. The supply of these 45 vehicles is expected to be extended beyond 2026, which is outside the scope of the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army for the period 2021-2026. Let me set up an example of Lithuania that confirms this assumption. Lithuania has already signed a contract for the purchase of such vehicles by the deadline of delivery of 2019 in 2016. According to published data, these vehicles will only be supplied in 2022, which shows that they are respected, at a three-year delay, which is significantly longer than the law which is justified in the period 2021-2026. It should also be borne in mind that in 2019 the contracts for the supply of boxes were signed for the purposes of the United Kingdom, of which 523 were vehicles, and Australia, of which 211 were vehicles, which means that the production of our vehicles would start only after the manufacture of vehicles for which all contracts have already been concluded. As we are aware, the capacity of manufacturers has changed significantly despite large orders. Dear colleagues, distinguished Slovenian public, the Social Democrats in the above-mentioned facts of the proposed law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government and the OCCAR on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR will not be supported. However, there are a number of issues that remain open – how will negotiations be conducted, what are the objectives set, or whether the signing of a binding treaty with all details will also inform the Committee on Defence and a variety of other issues, including financial nature. Your Honor, our call is coming, too. We can't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u242	President, thank you for your word. The OCCAR agreement is the name of the procedure by which 8x8 boxer armor is purchased. Everything is wrong with this agreement and the purchases that are spilled into this agreement. To start with, we can point out that 8x8 purchases of armor are valued at 412 million euros. That's a lot of money that people in this country would need practically everywhere, just in some future old iron. Constantly advocates of the proliferation of public money for weapons stress that security is a fundamental value and that is why we must protect it, but Slovenia is not in actual military danger. Even if it were, armored men, such as the government of Janez Janša, are not at all fit to operate on Slovenian territory. Boxer 8x8 is 36 tons of heavy monsters that can't help themselves crossing Slovenia whenever we talk about forest surfaces, forest trains and the like. After all, the Government does not even conceal the fact as a proponent of this agreement. Such weapons are not bought for the purposes of the defense of the country, they are bought for the occupation of the foreign. The concept of the Slovenian Army with armored 8x8 at the head, as we can accompany it, is set up and set up in a way that at least 50% of the Slovenian armed forces will be ready for rapid intervention abroad. And that in no way is a defensive army, ladies and gentlemen. This is the army of the expedition corps, which, in cooperation with NATO Pact, led by the United States of America, is also operating for 10,000 kilometres outside the borders of our country, in pursuit of some purely foreign corporate interests and not in any way in pursuit of the interests and needs of Slovenian citizens and citizens. As if the very purpose of this type of investment in public money in weapons is not problematic enough, there are also corruption risks. In Slovenia we practically do not know the bigger arms business, which would be carried out transparently and where things would go as they should go. In recent years, however, the arms dispute has crowned itself with the Patria affair, and in recent times with her younger sister, the Oshkosh armored purchases affair. If the latter may not be so well known, let me point out that when buying 8-wheeled 4x4 Oshkosh in just a few months the price practically doubled overnight. The initial information available to us in the National Assembly and made available to citizens and citizens was EUR 15 million. The final price for the same number of vehicles is set at almost EUR 40 million. It's no different than buying an eight-wheeler Boxer. The first information on the purchase of eight-wheelers entered our more binding documents with a budget memorandum for 2018 and 2019, where the price was set at EUR 200 million, EUR 207 million. Later, not long after that, the then secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Miloš Bizjak, in an interview with the Slovenian Army magazine, has already fixed the number up for the first time and placed it at EUR 250 million. As the government of Mira Cerar left in its last days, the National Assembly received a similar agreement to join the OCCAR organisation to buy eight-wheelers, as we can accompany it today. Well, at the time, the figure was already 100 million euros higher than the current one, that is, 300 million euros. What about today? Today, for fewer vehicles than planned at the starting point, 56 vehicles, we give once more money, that is EUR 412 million for 45 vehicles. The difference is significant. The difference is tangible. We are talking about 200m euros in total and practically doubling the price of an individual vehicle, indicating not only the irrational spending of public money, but also the serious suspicions and corruption risks that appear. In Levika, you can imagine that we strongly oppose any association with the OCCAR organization, because we strongly oppose any loss, despite the already limited public budget, which belongs to all citizens and citizens to subsidise foreign military complexes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I inform you that the assembly on the draft law in its entirety will not decide at this meeting. The proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the issue of the content of this bill is tabled. The proposal for a consultative referendum and the draft law under consideration are thus mutually binding. The assembly should take into account Article 28 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative when deciding on a proposal for an advisory referendum, which means that it must decide before finally deciding on a proposal for a law. The draft law will therefore be decided by the assembly following the decision of the National Assembly on the proposal for a referendum. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – IT'S ON ADVISIONAL VOLUNTARY CASES. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the first Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. On 24 November 2021, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, proposed to the National Assembly that he appoint a mag as the first Deputy President of the Court of Auditors. Maja Bilby. In accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Court of Auditors Act, a member of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed for a period of nine years from the date on which he takes office. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Mrs Natashi Kovac for further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u244	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! On 4 February 2022 the mandate of Mr Jorge Kristian Petrovic, the First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors, shall expire. At the invitation of the public to collect proposals for possible candidates for this place, five candidates, Mag. Maya Bilby, mag. Maja Hmelak, Mr Zoran Mladenović, Mrs Nataša Muser Mišelič and Mrs Nataša Praha. Following a discussion with all candidates and candidates held several rounds of consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided to propose mag to the National Assembly for appointment as the first Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Maja Bilby, Supreme Auditor of the Court of Auditors. Mag. Bilby is a university-graduate economist and a major in tax law science. Its 28-year career path is constantly linked to work in the field of public finances, in particular in the areas of taxes, state audits, internal state audits, corporate capital investment management and public procurement. She worked at the Court of Auditors at the time of his establishment. She returned to him in 2004 after working in the Slovenian Development Society and at the Ministry of Information Society as an internal auditor. In 2009, she was elected as a member of the State Audit Commission, where she received extensive experience in the whole field of public procurement. In 2013, the President of the Court of Auditors appointed her as the Supreme State Auditor for the audit of economic public service operators, companies in which the State and the local community have a majority share, and for all privatisation audits, irrespective of the area in which the user of public funds is included. It has been actively involved at all times in the development and work of the Court of Auditors and also in increasing the reputation of this institution in society, which has been reflected in increasingly difficult and quality audits and later in the highlighted role of the Court of Auditors in advising auditors. As the Supreme Auditor, she has carried out a number of resounding and difficult audits, which at the same time opened important professional ones, some of which are not yet fully resolved today, issues. Among them is one central question to what extent the Company Act is essentially intended for companies carrying out profitable activities on the market, a suitable framework for regulating the operation of companies owned by a majority of the country or municipality. As the candidate explained in a public presentation, she sees the further development of the Court of Auditors in particular in the areas of measuring the impact of audits and in strengthening the advisory function and cooperation between the competent authorities and users of public funds. It is convinced that it is also important to cooperate with other independent authorities and supervisory institutions whose powers are often intertwined with the powers of the Court of Auditors. In her view, the Court of Auditors, with its expertise and experience, could contribute significantly to a more efficient resolution of cases in these cases. Following consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, it can be assumed that the candidate has the necessary support for the appointment. The President of the Republic thinks he's a mag. In her work so far, Maja Bilby has demonstrated that this is a person who is highly skilled because she has dedicated her entire career to this area, which is extremely experienced, capable and motivated to take on the challenge of becoming a member of the Court of Auditors. In the event of its election, it is more than reasonable to expect the work to be carried out professionally, committedly and with a high degree of personal and professional integrity, so the President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly that it be mag. Maja Bilby shall be appointed First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic to appoint the first Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors appointing the National Assembly, it shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have forwarded me proposals for the members of the committee which leads the vote. These are Franc Breznik – SDS, Andreja Zabret – LMŠ, Boštjan Koražija – Levica, Blaž Pavlin – Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? I guess not. We are moving on to a vote or a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 85 votes against 2. [[The vote was 85.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word in favour or the word against. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we move to a secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that during a secret vote in the Chamber persons who are not voting shall not have access to the Chamber, so I call upon those persons to leave the Chamber at that time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will start at 18.10 and will last until 18.25. I interrupt the 22nd item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 18.02 and resumed at 18.40.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u246	Dear colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. We continue with the 22nd item, the proposal to appoint the first Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Let me read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of mags. May Bilby as First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 16 December 2021. 87 ballots were distributed, 87 ballots were delivered, no votes valid, 87 votes valid. 46 members voted against. 41 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. May Bilby by a majority of the votes of all Members appointed as First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Please, Mag. Maja Bilbi, First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors, swears before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u247	I swear to do my work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, fairly, conscientiously and impartially. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u248	You want to talk to the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u249	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and honourable Members! Thank you so much for your support. As I have stated in my presentation, I see the role of the First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors as the creator of audit practice and as a guarantor of the development of the methods and techniques of state audit. In my work, I come from the values of the Court of Auditors: independence, objectivity, efficiency. That's what's gonna happen in the future. In doing so, I know that I can rely on the auditors and auditors of the Court of Auditors, their expertise and their professionalism. Thank you very much again. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Bilby, thank you for your words, congratulations, and I want a successful job. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge and appointment of a member of the National Council for Culture. The proposal was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr. Ignatius Fridl Jarc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u251	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The member of the National Cultural Council, Dr. Andrej Gaspari, is on 16. 8. 2021 made a statement of resignation, and the Minister responsible for Culture proposed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia discharge it and also proposed a new candidate. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes the discharge of the member of the National Council for Culture, Dr Andrej Gaspari, and the appointment of a new candidate, Uroš Reiter, as a member of the National Council for Culture. The term of office of the new member shall be until the end of the term of office of the President and of the other members, i.e. up to 27. 9. 2024, if he is, of course, appointed. Let me mention just a few of the professional competences of the proposed candidate. For three years he worked as a demonstrator with Professor Peter Fistra at the Department of Reconstruction, participated in several projects, worked with students in particular in the area of cultural heritage reconstruction. This included the renovation of the city core of Slovenj Gradec. He gained experience at the Department of Urbanism in Velenje, in the fields of urban planning and spatial planning, design and design. He also dealt with the tasks of the municipal urbanist and participated in the tasks also under the leadership of Professor Petr Gabrielčič at the level of spatial planning. As a graduate architect, Uroš Reiter gained many years of experience in design, design and urban planning. He combined all this knowledge in a self-sustaining career in urbanism, architecture and design. His early works are also published in the book New Architecture and Slovenia. In 2006 the Central City Library in Velenje was nominated for the Plečnik Prize. The proposed candidate also gave written consent to the appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u252	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of Dr. Andrej Gaspari in the National Council for Culture. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and the members of the National Council for Culture as a member for the period until the end of the mandate of the National Council for Culture, appointed by a decision appointing the President and members of the National Council for Culture of 26 September 2019, is hereby appointed Uroš Reiter. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 32. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 32.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a President and members of the Fiscal Council. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Katji Lavtar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the proposal to appoint a President and two members of the Fiscal Council. In accordance with the deadlines laid down in the Fiscal Rule Act, the Government issued a public call in the Official Journal on 1 October for the application of candidates for president and two members of the Fiscal Council. The Government received a notice on the expiry of its mandate to the current members of the Fiscal Council of 21 March 2022 by the Fiscal Council in mid-September. At the invitation of the public, we received three applications, namely the existing members and the existing President of the Fiscal Council. On the basis of that Government, he proposes that Dr. Davorin Kkruk be re-appointed President of the Fiscal Council and Alenka Jerkič and Mag. Tomaž Perche. Paragraph 5 of Article 8 of the Fiscal Rule Act provides that the same persons may be appointed twice in order of office. Thus, the candidates, we can agree, show expertise and experience with the successful work so far, apply to the President and both members of the Fiscal Council, their work is regularly informed by the National Assembly, often participate in discussions, the consideration of public finance issues, and each year you are also aware of their annual report. The fiscal council, as a state authority, is carrying out a very important task of independent monitoring and warning on the sustainability of public finances, and I therefore hope that you will support the re-election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u254	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u255	Thank you very much and very much. In Levica today, we will not support the appointment of a new old fiscal world. The main reason is this. This appointment would not have to be carried out today and their term of office would expire only at the end of March. It is, however, a fact that the composition of the new Fiscal Council should be discussed together with the question of a new fiscal rule. The fiscal rule that we have in Slovenia is one of the most rigid in Europe. In general, fiscal rules have proved to be harmful in the last decade. If I recall. Following the crisis that erupted in the financial markets in 2008, the European Union introduced fiscal rules in 2011 and 2012. As a result, fiscal accounting grey has fallen over the eyes of all European legislators and leaders. For a major objective, debt repayment and deficit reduction have been set aside for a decade, resulting in a drastic reduction in investment. And a further consequence, as the Magus once identified. Andrej Shircelj, now a finance minister, is not a region in the world that would have had as much urban growth as Europe had in the previous decade. Europe grew five times slower than China and about once slower than the United States. The situation is worse now. In the wake of the crisis, while in Europe, an ideological platform has been turned around and allowed to help the economy and the population through public funds to cope with the crisis. But in 2023 we are threatened by the reactivation of these rigid fiscal rules where we have a double problem. The first problem is that we have budgets set up to have the second largest structural deficit in Europe in 2022, just for Romania, and in 2023 we are expected to save 950 million euros. If I recall. When the former Janševa government tried similar fiscal exercise in 2012, Zujf saved three times less than 320 million euros and the 320 million euros cut into public finances was enough to draw the country into a second recession. Saving one billion in one year is a budget madness. And that's what the existing Fiscal Council warned about. That is why we should, because today, if we want to name this world, we need two-thirds, the right coalition needs opposition, sit together at the table and talk about how we will change the fiscal rules so that this does not happen. The fiscal rule will not only kill development, a fiscal rule if, in such a form, it is activated again, and I do not see good chances that the will of two-thirds of Members and Members will ever be gathered in this or the future Parliament - except now that we have a common interest to set up a new fiscal world - to do so. I think we are missing the historic opportunity to do this, and we risk having another lost decade ahead of us because of political intrigues and complications. Therefore, I propose that we postpone the appointment of a new fiscal council, time is, as it is said, another three months, and we spend in the meantime on how to establish a fiscal rule to enable development and ultimately allow for a green breakthrough, digitisation and social transformation that European countries, including Slovenia, are expected to implement in the next ten years. With the fiscal rule we have now, that won't be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The government's representative has the floor if she wants to. No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We will vote on each candidate separately. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 9, paragraph 6, of the Fiscal Rule Act, each candidate proposed will be appointed if at least two thirds of all Members vote for him, 60 or more. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision appointing Dr. Davorin Kkuru as President of the Fiscal Council, in which his mandate shall begin to run from 22. 3. 2022. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 8. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a decision appointing Alenka Jerkič as a member of the Fiscal Council and her term shall begin with 22. 3. 2022. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Tomaža Peršeta for members of the Fiscal Council, where his mandate begins to run from 22. 3. 2022. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, 13 votes in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a Deputy Ombudsman. On 22 November 2021, the Ombudsman reiterated his proposal to appoint Miho Horvat as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mr Peter Svetina.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman, these are my closest associates. I refer again to you the proposal to appoint Mr Miha Horvat, because I firmly believe that Mr Horvat is the right person with all the necessary professional competences, knowledge and skills to serve as the Deputy Ombudsman. This was demonstrated by his work so far in the first term of his meeting of this important function. I therefore trust that you, honourable Members, will support my proposal in re-decision on his appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u258	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. Does Mr. Peter Svetina want to discuss this further? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision appointing Miha Horvat as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years, in which his mandate shall begin to run from 30 years. 3. 2022. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 27. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm asking the appointed Deputy Guardian of Human Rights to join us. I ask the Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman, Miho Horvat, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u259	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Do you want to talk to the National Assembly? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Thank you sincerely to all those who voted in favour of the Ombudsman today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u262	Thank you very much. /Applause. / I thank Mr Mihi Horvath for his words, congratulate him and wish him a successful job. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Dr. Damjan Orož as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Vladimir Horvat, President of the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u263	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia issued an invitation for a single vacant seat of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in 2020 and for the envisaged retirement of one supreme judge at the end of 2021. Six candidates applied for the vacant seat of the Supreme Court, and two candidates later withdrew their application. After the discussion and the examination of the documentation, the Council of Justice assessed that Dr Damjan Weapon's candidate was the most convincing of all candidates, with his previous judicial work and interview, and that he had withdrawn positively from all candidates. The candidate Dr. Damjan Arms has been in court for more than 15 years in various legal areas and at different stages of the trial. For five years, the candidate served in the Court of First Instance and served as Vice-President of the Court of Justice, and from 2011 onwards he has served as a Senior Judge at the appeal level, of which he has been a Senior Judge since 2019, a Councilor, where he also judges in two legal departments, indicating an extremely wide range of candidate legal knowledge. This is a high-level expert judge who masters the Senate trial in the most challenging cases, which also requires creative thinking to resolve the most difficult legal issues. By its responsible attitude towards work, self-initiativeism, determination, criticalness to legal and actual problems, outstanding commitment to judicial service, and behaviour at and outside the service, it contributes to the promotion of the reputation of the judiciary. This is also evidenced by the fact that the candidate's work has always been assessed by an average assessment of the judicial service, which is extremely rare. He also demonstrated a high average outcome throughout the course of the complaint. It is also necessary to highlight the candidate's extensive professional work outside the judiciary in the field of teaching and publicity and in the commissions in legislative procedures, thereby making an important contribution to the development of the economic and enforcement field in the Slovenian legal area. Allow me to mention only the most important of these. The candidate is, among other things, a co-author of the comment of the 2020 Real Law Code. He participated in the drafting of amendments to the Law on Financial Business and Forced Settlement and in the drafting of the opinion of the novel ZIZ-L, published contributions in the book Modern real law, he was a member of several project groups, a prominent lecturer at the most prestigious, most important seminars and judicial schools, led various consultations and performed other functions. In addition, he publishes numerous professional articles not only in the home but also in foreign professional publications. In particular, I would like to stress that he has received the support of his colleagues, the judges of the civil-economic department, where, if elected, he will also perform his judicial function. The candidate is an extremely good colleague and, as such, is also highly valued among colleagues. In the opinion of the Court of Justice, Dr Damjan Oroz is therefore the most suitable candidate for the judicial function of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of monitoring of case law and economic law, and is proposing to the National Assembly for appointment as supreme judge at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. We are moving on to the debate of the President of the Council of Justice. Would you like, Mr President of the Council of Justice, a word in the debate? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Damjan Orož to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. The draft law was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. My friend Krivec, a motion of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u265	Thank you, Madam President. In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the vote on this item be held at one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups about this proposal? Comrade Brana Golubovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u267	Thank you, President. This similar act or identical action was seen yesterday in the Income Act when the SDS representative proposed the withdrawal of the point until once in the future. Why? You need to make it clear why you're doing this. Because you don't have enough votes and you're playing this democratic process. If you put the law into the procedure, if a decision is put into the procedure, then you're so responsible, so operational, at least you're working so hard that you have so much knowledge to do the whole process and through dialogue, constructive dialogue you can reach an agreement to collect those 46 votes. And you don't have them. Someone in your field once said that you should know mathematics and count. It would be time for you to stop making fun of the National Assembly and let democracy do its job, put the matter to the vote. Yesterday's income and accused the opposition of being responsible for not going over the law. Today, eight program councillors want to take over RTV Slovenia. Put to the vote whether democracy decides, or admit we don't have enough votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Janja the Servant has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u269	We are also really against what has now become a permanent practice. So folding, counting, calculating, moving to the future of some votes, taking breaks and so on. We were already against yesterday and we will also be against today and it would be good if you would stop such practice. Even if it is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure, it is contrary to the purpose of the procedure itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Luke the Moon has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I think it's the public's duty to find out what the reason is for you to withdraw from this point. You are withdrawing this point because you are on the Mandate-Election Commission despite the practice of the National Assembly so far, that in the composition of both the representatives of the viewers and representatives of political parties are mixedly independent, party, coalition and opposition candidates, you have chosen exclusively your party staff. Just for each of the people you've proposed, we can see which client he's connected to, a coalition client or a client supporting this government, and why he's on this list. That's what you did. So you excluded all the other independent experts, and there were a lot of them, journalists who received life-work awards, people who spent their entire lives dealing with the media. We had huge numbers of people like that on the list. You eliminated them all, and then you were left alone in the National Assembly. You need an absolute majority of 46 votes so that you can now set up these people who will have a mandate to take over RTV. And since you don't have those 46 votes today, because not all of yours are here in this room, you're going to postpone the vote. I don't know if it's called democracy. This is one common blackmail and accommodation of procedures. That is why I also propose that you excuse the people in this country for this decision and for the conduct you have done, and that we vote today. That'd be the only thing fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u272	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, coalition and their supporters! Now it's become a practice, unfortunately for two colleagues who are sick to put points on the diaper. Of course, on the Mandate-Election Commission, which is disproportionately composed in relation to Members and Members, according to political parties, you are going through everything. That's clear. When we get to this national council, it stops. And now I have to tell you, this is, I'm not going to say it's undemocratic, it's just a shabbazier. You're really bad warriors. [[Laughing in the hall]] I used to see in you that you're really good. Now I see you're bad. You can't do this anymore. Dani, you're not doing it. You lost one vote today, another vote. I'd lose a third, but you'd rather give up. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u274	Please, no ad personnel.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u275	Now I don't know what's going on here. Let's make a deal together, and we'd rather not go to this national assembly anymore and go to the elections. Because we won't be able to get anywhere else like this. So, gentlemen, it's no longer serious, it's no longer responsible. And I think you're letting it go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u277	On behalf of the SAB Group, I also join the warnings of opposition colleagues. Some of the colleagues on this side have been in this House for many years. I am not so much, but I do not remember that whenever this point of the Rules of Procedure is applied, it will be applied and applied this time. Why? Because the coalition has always had the majority it must have in democracy. And that's why it's a coalition. Now, apparently every time we come to a vote in the National Assembly, instead of leaving the decision to that assembly, it will move forward and wait for the opposition to win its 46 votes. The point was classified in accordance with the rules of procedure, in accordance with practice and so on. Why are we moving it now? And if I go to a practical level - what if my colleagues who are sick will be sick for another three months? Are we going to move all the points where an absolute majority is needed? This is the abuse of the rules of procedure and the abuse of this national assembly and the usurpation of power. Instead of allowing the majority to decide, I won't use that word, but you wouldn't, but you don't have it right now, you're moving the dots so you don't see that you don't have the majority. I also oppose this on behalf of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Given that I have to take care of the Rules of Procedure, I merely point out that this is not an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Slayer, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u279	Thank you, Madam President. You have already explained to your fellow Members, including lawyers who have just become upset. Under the rules of procedure, we propose the option we have. And there's nothing wrong here, we're not breaking anything. You all know that you will decide again when the point comes to a decision again, not someone x, what you are trying to present to some audience here with some drama. The National Assembly will be re-emerged and we no longer have the opportunity to postpone it under the Rules of Procedure. So this drama, I don't know who it's meant for, I hope you don't use it in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u280	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Only representatives of the parliamentary groups, now there is no explanation for the vote. I therefore conclude the debate on the proposal for a postponement. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth indent of Article 217 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 41. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore take a decision on that proposal for a decision at one of the next meetings of the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural proposal, colleague Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u281	Thank you very much, President. When we received today the position of the Legal and Legislative Service for which you have asked for it, we have sent you the leaders of the parliamentary groups of the democratic opposition one letter, in which we invite you to withdraw the next two decisions that we intend to consider now from the vote. The legislative and legal service is when it has considered what the Mandate-Electorial Commission has decided at its meeting and in what way it has drawn conclusions, contrary to the Law on RTV Slovenia. This provides that 5 supervisors and 5 members of the RTV Programme Council Slovenia must be represented to the greatest extent by the composition of the National Assembly. It's not like that. This coalition with its supporters has elected five members on the Mandate-Election Commission, who are exclusively members of the coalition and those who support this coalition. The second problem is that these two decisions do not constitute the proportionality referred to in the Legislative and Legal Service, it is said that there should be parliamentary groups, if more than five members of the National Assembly are represented in proportion, because proportionality is one of the key aspects of our democracy. Thus we have a situation where we have a representative of the Slovenian National Party, which has 3 Members, the Desus Group, which has 4 Members, and of course NSI, SMC and SDS. In line with what the Legislative and Legal Service has found, I quote: “Proposals of conclusions that are not proven to meet a certain condition under the law and therefore cannot be considered compatible with the law” we suggest that we simply do not vote on this today. Because if we had voted on these two decisions, the National Assembly would have voted on decisions contrary to the law. I don't think you're just the president who's keeping an eye on the procedure in this National Assembly, but you also need to keep an eye on the legality of the functioning of this National Assembly. If you are prepared to reject Members of Parliament's questions which raise substantively controversial questions, which is a business provision which has a basis in the Constitution, if you are prepared not to convene an extraordinary meeting at the request of Members and Members, because it is a content which is contrary to the Constitution or laws, I think you should take responsibility and not put these decisions to the vote because they are contrary to the laws. Everything else would be hiding behind some false dilemmas. I think that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is very clear and voting on such decisions would constitute a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you are aware, I have asked the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly for an opinion on the compatibility of the proposals of the Decisions of the Mandate-Electorial Commission with the Law on Radio Television of Slovenia. I did this because of the concerns that have arisen when the Task Force did its job. As you are aware, the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia provides that five members of the Programme Council shall be appointed by the National Assembly, taking as much account of the representation of the parties in the National Assembly as possible. Given what we have discussed in the National Assembly today, the question is, of course, whether this regulation, which is in the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, deviates from other optional matters. As the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has it, I will quote, "the possibility of using the criterion that in the Programme and Supervisory Council the members proposed by all political parties represented in the National Assembly are dependent on the number of parties represented in the National Assembly, in relation to the number of cities defined by the law. That's five places. In the case that the number of political parties represented in Parliament is greater or smaller than the number of seats established by law, it is the view of the Legislative and Legal Service that the proportionality criteria, i.e. proportional representation, should be taken into account." The Legislative and Legal Service further notes that "the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the Programme Council and a proposal for a decision appointing five members of the Supervisory Board," which is also referred to as the following point, "as set out by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, do not contain the criteria applied and the reasons why the Mandate-Electorial Commission has taken into account the legal condition that the National Assembly, when appointing, takes into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly, so compliance with the law cannot be substantively tested." In the last sentence, the Legislative and Legal Service concludes: “Proposals of decisions for which they have not been shown to fulfil a certain condition under the law cannot therefore be considered compatible with the law.” When I referred to the other Terms of Reference, I referred for the purpose, because, as your proposal suggests, you are well aware that the Rules of Procedure itself do not give any specific powers to judge individual mandate-holders, not even if we may not agree with them substantively, but the Law on RTV Slovenia is not any law. This is a law that has a major impact on this public service, not least on freedom of reporting, on freedom of the media, so I think we need to take it into account and judge it in some special light. The law provides that five members shall be appointed by the National Assembly, taking into account, as much as possible, the representation of the parties in the National Assembly. From these decisions, which we have under f and g, if the law states that we must take the parties' representation to the fullest extent possible, it follows that the second largest party in the opposition, the third largest party, the fourth largest party, the sixth, the seventh, if I am not mistaken, the size of the parties is slightly changing, they do not have their own representative. 43 Members and Members of this National Assembly shall have no representative, if I may say so, in the Programme Council and in the Supervisory Board, given what has been voted on by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I must say, I find this extremely problematic. In view of the fact that the law does not give the President of the National Assembly specific powers to intervene in what the Mandate-Electorial Commission has decided, however, I have decided, on the basis of Article 59, that the President of the National Assembly shall nevertheless have the power to bring the items on the agenda of the meeting. If I had such an opinion before, I must say that I would not have placed this item on the agenda. It follows that I will not put this matter to the vote and I will conclude this point. [[Applause]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] The same applies to points (f) and (g).
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u283	Procedural proposal, Comrade Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u284	I would like to hear your argument on the basis of which you withdraw the items from the agenda. [[advertising from the hall]] He didn't say. He said if I had a previous opinion, I wouldn't put it on the agenda. The point is already on the agenda. The Commission also considered this point, adopted it. For the withdrawal of this point, the motioner is always the one, it is said, that the Mandate-Volution Commission could withdraw this point. If the President withdraws it, he must have some basis in his Rules of Procedure. She withdraws it on the basis of some opinion that something is not respected. I hope that we will not put ourselves on the stand in the National Assembly to judge what is in conformity with the law and what is not in conformity with the law. Mr President, you are now in charge of interpreting the RTV Act. I remind you that this assessment has already been made in one case that was identical to what we are talking about today, and unfortunately for our client, we have to say this is negative. It was the same procedure where we, as the biggest opposition party, challenged the implementation of the RTV Act, which speaks of adequate representation in the supervisory world. Since the National Assembly overcame this, we complained to the Administrative Court. The Administrative Court decided that there was nothing illegal in this case, and the decision of the National Assembly remained in force. There is already a case law in this area. If you're putting yourself on trial right now, we have one big problem. So I'm wondering on what point in the Rules of Procedure you withdraw these two points from the decision-making in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u285	I explained my explanation. I'm not standing up to anything, but I'm definitely standing by our stop. Tina Hefferle has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u286	I have a more procedural comment. I think that this is also allowed with regard to the application of the Rules of Procedure. I'll start at the back. Just for clarification. This situation would certainly not have occurred if the relationship within the Mandate-Election Commission was as it should have been, such as the reflection of the National Assembly and the representation of individual parliamentary groups. We know that Desus has two members in the MVK, and their parliamentary group consists of four Members, and the LMŠ also has two members on the MVK, and our parliamentary group is made up of 14 Members. Of course, you succeed, a respected coalition, with supporters to play work and relations in the National Assembly, but something is clear, it is not often that the Legislative and Legal Service gives such an explicit and firm opinion that this conclusion is that the decision you have taken at the MVK does not contain marriage rooms, ergo is an illegal decision. That's right. Dear President, I welcome your decision, because once we agree that a coalition roller with the supporters of this coalition works and takes illegal decisions and practically revives them, when they see it, we will lose democracy and in fact, you are killing it in front of our eyes. Mr Krivec, in reply, paragraph 6 of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly tells you that the agenda can be extended even later if other circumstances and reasons arise for extending the agenda. According to the principle of analogy, which of course applies in law - and the Rules of Procedure is also a legal act or legal source, as you know - this could be provided that if something occurs as a post-festum and we have changed circumstances, it may also apply to the withdrawal of the point or to the transfer of the point. There is no doubt that the decision of the President of the National Assembly is based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I once again welcome this decision. However, I have only come forward to perhaps justify a business article which may be invoked for the President's decision, and the President's decision is even more legitimate or moral.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Comrade Krivec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. I hope the President of the National Assembly doesn't need a lawyer in this National Assembly. Now we're out of the court of law. But, Madam Lawyer, the withdrawal of the point is possible in the vote on the agenda. Now, however, we have been in the voting phase on agenda items when no withdrawal is possible, except in the event that one of the Members proposes it and we vote on it. In order not to denounce, I will read to you a quote from the action that we have brought, quoting the judgment that we have lost: "It does not appear from any of the provisions of the RTV-1 Act that appointment to the supervisory council of RTV Slovenia would be an individual's right and membership in the supervisory council of the exercise of this right. Nor does it appear from the provisions of the law that the right of a member to be appointed to the Supervisory Board by a political party under the quota of five members of the National Assembly, which in a particular case would be the defendant.” That's what I'm saying when we lost in the same case in the Administrative Court that we're talking about right now. Once again, please, President, firstly, to interpret the point on which you withdraw the point of the Rules of Procedure because that is not possible. Otherwise, I propose that you put this to a vote, which is the only possible or we invite the ZPS, to be defined until the legal situation in the country where the Administrative Court is in 2014, 30. 1. Our appeal has already been decided in the same case. I hope we don't have double standards about courts in this country. Once again, you have now placed yourself in a position to judge matters of substance that are not within your purview. The Court has already ruled in such cases. All co-workers complaining have the opportunity to go to the Administrative Court and to other Estonians, but we cannot in any case play the rules of procedure. I propose whether we go to the vote to withdraw this because this is your option, but otherwise I propose that we vote on these points.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I have explained my decision. You know, the paradox of democracy is that most people can choose a regime that is a dictatorship. Of course that's possible. No, no, don't wait for me to say it all the way. I didn't want to hurt anyone. I don't know why you just got up. That's unnecessary. That's possible, it's theoretically possible. You can change the constitution with a two-thirds majority and legislate the most undemocratic principles inside. Of course, all of this is possible. But, you know, as chairman of the National Assembly, I would never put anything like that to a vote. If the law says that parliamentary parties must be fully respected by representation, then I think this provision is clear. Then you can't reward the public service only those who may support the government. It just doesn't work. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing two members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations of the Republic of Slovenia. We're at point h. Do you have any suggestions regarding point h? Procedural proposal, Comrade Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u290	Look, President, now I don't know if this is an insult to us. You're talking about changes in the constitution, changes in the rules of procedure, we're not proposing anything like that. In accordance with the rules of procedure in force, we draw attention to some things by the case law that has already been established in this country. You're ignoring it. In both cases, of these five members, there are two members of the opposition, whether you like it or not. In this case, what you are now exposing, the SDS could also have two members, if we are talking about proportionality, but that is not the case. It is no usurpation of the Rules of Procedure, no rules in this National Assembly. You can't get past telling me on what basis you're withdrawing this point because you can't do this by the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u291	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u292	Otherwise, if it is over, we predict obstruction of voting at the following points because we cannot agree to a violation [[applause in the hall]] Rules of procedure in this National Assembly, because this is too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u293	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvat has the floor for a procedural proposal. Can I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u294	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We're having a hard time making your decision, which is actually above court practice, and I'm talking about point f and mr.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u295	A little respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u296	I propose that we find a way out of this, to call your college before we proceed, because otherwise, someone, perhaps you, will force me to follow someone else's instructions, which is not in accordance with Article 82(1). We both know that. How, then, should the second or third or fourth parliamentary group get its representative in the programming world? What if she doesn't propose? Mr President, from now on, we need to know who will instruct me in the next vote if you have refused to do so. Therefore, I ask for a calming of my passion to agree on how you imagine further procedures at the College or at the Council, if I am more accurate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u297	I suggest you all sit together again. The public service is the service of all Slovenes and Slovenes and you can agree on how the policy will be represented inside. That's my suggestion. [[applause in the hall]] My friend Gregor Perič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u298	President, thank you so much for your word. I think we are now writing in a way also the history of interpretations and such very broad interpretations of the Rules of Procedure. We've been hearing a little bit back about how you wanted to vote. Thank you for taking pictures, nice greetings, Mrs Violeta, we have made a deal, but your obviously no rule applies. Now, even though we have something on the agenda, we cannot vote. I want and demand, and I expect, as a Member, that I may also vote on items that are on the agenda. This is my right. Not only to debate, but also to vote. You are now turning this practice upside down. I don't know. I don't remember a case like this being seen. [[advertising from the hall]] Let's hear it. Maybe you'll find out something new.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u299	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u300	Thank you. I would ask that we respect the agenda, that we also respect the decisions of the College. We've been listening to a lot of controversy over the last few weeks when we've been out of work, and we've been working after 10:00, and now it's 19.39, and we can't even vote. So I don't know what's going on in our national council, but it's not right. The direction we're going is not right. I want and I ask you to explain to me on the basis of which provision in the Rules of Procedure this has been made and if this answer is not done, please thank you very much for your help, please, let's do the College and let's talk about it. Since this is the way to proceed, I'm very sorry, we can't drive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u301	Thank you very much. There's still a lot of you. My friend Perich, I've already explained my decision. My colleague Horvat has the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! This National Assembly, [[advertising from the hall]] May I? [[…]] This National Assembly adopted the agenda for the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. In this way, when the agenda was adopted, the agenda was in fact the property of the National Assembly. You've privatized him in some way now, Mr President. And we just can't accept that. For this reason, we leave this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u303	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I know the pain is unbearable and severe, and it's still gonna get worse. But despite all that, I'm against you playing such a game, Mr. President. I do not think that this is worthy of your position, but especially not of this event in the National Assembly, which is why the SNS Group is leaving the Chamber and we are obstructing this matter. Have a good time.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Comrade Duck has the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u306	Thank you for your word. In fact, I agree with the Head of the SDS Group that the rules of procedure should be followed. The starting point of what has arisen is that the working bodies are recalculated and the composition is the composition of the groups of Members. At the same time, I wonder a little about what is concrete, what is not concrete, who is Desus, what is not Desus and so on, and what is the legal and legislative service should also define this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u307	Thank you very much. My friend Tanko wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u308	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, what you are doing today is frightening. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u309	Peace, peace, peace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u310	A little earlier, you yourself decided that the decision of the National Assembly to withdraw the word Kordiš, which he had requested, did not apply. Now, in your explanation, you have said that you judge what is legal and what is not. The only ones who can decide that are the courts. You talked about whether something is constitutional or unconstitutional, you will decide in the National Assembly, but whether it will not be voted on. This shall be decided by the Constitutional Court. You are obliged to work and have a special mandate to take care of the implementation of this Rules of Procedure. If your colleague Krivec has asked for a proposal you have made to vote on it, you are obliged to put it to the vote. The withdrawal or postponement of the agenda item shall be voted on. If you, as president of the National Assembly, do not respect the basics, who is judging at some stage of some sort of thing, then this means complete self-cracy. We no longer need the National Assembly, President Igor Zorčič will decide everything: what is legal, what is constitutional, what will be voted on or will not be discussed, who is allowed to debate and so on. Look, you've brought this matter into the stage of complete self-cracy and dictatorship. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u312	It's not over yet. Mr President, I suggest you go as planned with the Rules of Procedure. In cases of motions, a motion shall be put to the vote and decided. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no problem with that. But if you think you have to make your own decisions, then the question is if you need someone else. The way you did the work this afternoon is nothing. Well, fellas, thank you for your respect. I listen to you, I assure you that you can discuss in peace, and you are so rude that you do not allow it. Well, it's funny, it's just all things coming together and sometimes they can come back to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u313	A little peace, respectable colleagues and colleagues. I propose that we close these procedural proposals. My friend Perič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u314	Thank you, thank you very much. And I'm glad there's at least a little more peace, so I'll be in touch. Given that some of the arguments and explanations on the basis of which you have decided on the basis of the business definition that you have decided not to vote on the item that we have on the agenda itself, I also announce on our side an obstruction of points f forward. Thank you very much. I hope this doesn't happen. However, we will certainly have to sit down and suggest that we also carry out one consultation or college as soon as possible to clear up these matters. I estimate that this is not a practice that could benefit the National Assembly in any way — not today or in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we proceed. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing two members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision, by which the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, on the proposal of humanitarian organisations that are listed in the humanitarian organisations, is hereby designated as a member of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Nataša Jan and Dr Jana Završnik, for the period until the end of the term of office of members appointed by Decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia of 22. 3. 2017. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. I'm guessing we're not concluding. We are voting now again. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. I'm guessing we're not concluding. We'll resume in 10 minutes, 20 o'clock. (The sitting was suspended at 7.47 p.m. and resumed at 20.00 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2021-12-16-SDZ8-Redna-28.ana.u316	Dear colleagues, we continue the meeting. We are moving on to the third vote. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 24. (The vote was 20.)(against 24.) I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference in the work of the police and the political impact on the course or outcome of forecasting and other procedures. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 37 votes against none. (For the vote was 37.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the decision to terminate the post of Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I am the leader of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. 12. 2021 notices of an amendment to the composition of the parliamentary group, namely the withdrawal of a member of mag. Branislav Rajić of the parliamentary group. Since the post of one Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy belongs to the Group of Non-Aligned Members, there is a reason for the appointed Member to cease his office as Vice-President of that Committee. Therefore, pursuant to Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: Branislav Rajić has ceased to be a member of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. As a result of the termination of the membership of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the Mag. Mr Branislav Rajić is Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The Member shall cease to serve on the Committee on Foreign Policy from the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 28th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended 16.) DECEMBER 2021 AT 20.03.)
