ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Alexander Reberšek, Anja Bah Žibert, Soniboj Knezak, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Meira Hot by 2 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 in the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Kristini Steblaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! This time, the government has submitted an amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 for adoption, mainly with a view to ensuring an adequate legal basis, which will enable the efficient use of European funds for the implementation of the key investment and reform measures of the Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan. Slovenia received a positive assessment on this plan in July and already received a prepayment of 13 per cent of the approved amount or EUR 231 million in September. Specific rules should be laid down for the use of the Fund's resources for recovery and resilience, as they are also not subject to the same rules at EU law level as cohesion policy. This bill therefore establishes a specific budget fund to raise the funds of the recovery and resilience mechanism. The budget fund is in line with the Public Finance Act only a budget account opened for the purpose of separate management of certain revenue and expenditure. This is therefore not a legal person and therefore must be managed by a body which is a direct budgetary user, and in a specific case it will be the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Recovery and Resistance. The decision to manage these funds through the budget fund is based on the fact that the acquisition of the resources of the recovery and resilience mechanism is linked to the achievement of the milestones and objectives set out in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. This represents a high degree of predictability of both the level and the dynamics of inflows and consumption, and therefore the fact that all unused funds in the budget account are transferred to the next year at the end of the current year does not pose a significant risk in terms of the precautionary principle. For a similar reason, it is also envisaged that commitments in the budget fund may be made at the level of the budgetary fund's well-founded revenue. The scope of the recovery and resistance mechanism is predetermined by the envelope and therefore the level of the expected resources is known. The proposed law also provides for a solution if liquidity problems arise in the budget fund. This would be particularly the case if, for example, the obligation had already fallen into payment and the European Commission had not yet recovered the funds. In these cases, liquidity will be based on the State budget. After receipt of the European funds transfer, the funds will return to the state budget and all of this will only be recorded in the balance sheet accounts. Furthermore, the proposed law for budgetary users also provides for the obligation to reimburse funds to the budget fund when undue spending is determined or even if milestones or targets are not achieved. Given that this is a new instrument, we expect even more detailed guidance on the unjustified use of funds by the European Commission, expected by the end of the year. In view of the fact that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2021 and 2022 regulates only the content necessary for the start of the drawdown of the recovery and resilience mechanism, the Government proposes that you adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 61st urgent meeting on 6 October this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. No amendments were tabled within the time limit for the draft law. In an additional supplementary explanation, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance said that the aim of the bill is to ensure, in particular, an adequate legal basis to enable the efficient use of European funds for the implementation of the key reform and investment measures set out in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. It is necessary to lay down specific rules for the use of the Fund's resources for recovery and resilience because they are not subject to the same rules as cohesion policy at the level of European Union legislation. The draft law provides that, in order to finance the measures included in the Recovery and Resistance Plan, a budget fund should therefore be set up to implement those measures, which is an accounting account of the budget and is opened in accordance with the Public Finance Act for the purpose of separate management of certain benefits and expenditure. Since the budget fund is not a legal person, it must be managed by a body which has the status of direct user, in a specific case the budget fund will be managed by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Recovery and Resistance as an organisational unit of the Ministry of Finance. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the service made comments in its written opinion on Articles 1, 4 and 6 of the draft law, but all comments link one single terminology question, namely whether there is a reasonable reason for the recovery and resilience mechanism and the Recovery and Resistance Plan to include only measures but not projects. The project and the measure are different concepts and are specifically defined in Article 2 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee generally expressed their support for the proposal for a law, in particular in terms of the implementation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan and the use of available resources from the mechanism. They stressed the need to ensure adequate and effective control over the use of funds, and the dilemma was also raised regarding the transparency of the use of funds in cases where double funding is envisaged both for recovery and resilience mechanisms and for cohesion funds. The Secretary of State replied to all the questions raised and the dilemmas raised in the debate. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Finance proposes that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022 be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! We will consider and adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022. According to the assessment of the New Slovenia Group, this is one of the most important items on the agenda of the October meeting of the National Assembly. Let me remind you, Member States' leaders on the European Council agreed on 21 July 2020 on a multi-annual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027 and a recovery instrument. This is a so-called recovery and resistance mechanism to limit the economic and social damage caused by the Coronavirus pandemic. On this basis, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at its meeting on 28 April this year a National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is the basis for the use of available resources from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. Taking into account that this is a slightly different system for obtaining European funds, the proposed amendments and additions to ZIPRS2122 lay down legal bases that will enable the efficient use of European funds. The recovery and resilience plan foresees the use of approximately EUR 1.8 billion of available grants. The Recovery and Resistance Plan provides for measures and projects that are feasible until the end of 2026 when the programme is completed. What are the solutions to the novel? In order to finance the measures included in the Recovery and Resistance Plan, a budget fund shall be established, which shall be a budget account and shall be opened in accordance with the Public Finance Act for the purpose of separate management of certain revenue and expenditure. The Recovery and Resistance Fund is therefore a sub-account on which the recovery and resilience mechanism funds are collected to finance the recovery and resilience measures set out in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. On 1 July this year, the European Commission, colleagues and colleagues adopted a positive assessment of the Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is the basis for the payment of €1.8 billion in grants and €705 million of loans to be transferred by the European Union to Slovenia under the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. These funds will support the implementation of the key investment and reform measures set out in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. This will allow Slovenia to be stronger when leaving the covida-19 pandemic. The RRF is at the heart of the European Instrument for Recovery of the Next Generation of the EU, which will provide €800 billion in funding to support investments and reforms across the European Union. This is one of the best decisions of the European Union in recent years. The Slovenian plan is part of the European Union's coordinated response to the covida-19 crisis in order to meet the common European challenges and to adopt a green and digital transition and to strengthen economic and social resilience and cohesion of the single market. The Commission assessed the Slovenian plan on the basis of the criteria set out in the RRF Regulation. This is a regulation adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on 12 February this year. In particular, the analysis examined whether the investments and reforms planned by Slovenia support the green and digital transition or contribute to an effective treatment in the European Semester of the identified challenges and whether they strengthen the growth potential and its economy, job creation and economic and social resilience. Members of the Nova Slovenija Group - Christian Democrats will support the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u8	Dear Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government! The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022, which we decide today, regulates the procedures for the preparation and implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Our economy has been successfully picked up after the fall hit by the covida-19 pandemic and in order to continue to create a good economic climate, we must, of course, also establish appropriate legal bases for the efficient use of European funds, which are intended for projects included in our Recovery and Resistance Plan. For this purpose, the proposed law therefore provides for the establishment of a budget fund to act as a budget account and to be opened in accordance with the Public Finance Act due to the need for separate management of certain revenue and expenditure. The proposed law also creates a basis that will allow other investments, measures and projects that are not included in our Recovery and Resistance Plan to be financed from other funds. We support all proposed solutions in the modern centre Party Group. We are pleased that our economy, within the framework of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, envisages using around €1.8 billion of available grants and around €700 million of loans. We believe that the areas covering the green transition, digitisation, sustainable growth, health and social security are an excellent opportunity for Slovenia to turn this really difficult situation into its own and write a new story about economic success. The proposal to amend the Law on the implementation of the budget will therefore be supported in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u10	Your Honor! A new Law on the implementation of the budgets for 2021 and 2022 sets out the legal basis and method of spending European grants for actions and projects under the national recovery plan of EUR 1.8 billion. As a result of the separate management of all revenue and expenditure relating to the acquisition and use of funds from the Recovery Plan, a specific budget fund shall be established by law. Contrary to the rules so far, unused appropriations may be transferred to the following financial year. The technical law, which lays down rules for the implementation of the budget for 2021 and 2022, has been amending the Government for the third time. It confers exceptional rights on itself; from the fact that, despite the budget adopted in Parliament, the rights of consumption are redistributed independently, for the first time in history, to the self-redistribution of spending rights from EU earmarked funds. Let me remind you that at the beginning of the epidemic in the SAB, we have insisted on the proposal to set up a specific budget fund. Under this Fund, we would record all expenditure related to the epidemic, and we would know exactly how much money we spent on a concrete measure. In this way, we would work transparently with the taxpayers and avoid excessive indebtedness. Such transparency was strongly opposed by the Government, but today the same government is unable to explain the additional spending of 1.5 billion taxpayers' money, which is why today's novelty is not accompanied by the 2021 budget rebalancing. Let us recall that for 2021, the government has raised its initial projected consumption by €850 million, and with a new decree it is proposing to raise spending by an additional 670 million. Changes on the revenue and expenditure side do not correspond to the budget in force, so the Government's Public Finance Act requires the preparation of a balance for this year. Only the budget balance to be adopted by the National Assembly would explain to taxpayers what the Government will spend an additional 1.5 billion public funds on. However, this government will not respect the Constitution and the laws of its own country. Continues its vehement ignorance and continues to make voluntary decisions in the field of Slovenian public finances. In the SAB, we care about the future of Slovenia, which must be based on financial stability, so the proposed novels, which deepens the will of this government, are not supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In order to gradually remedy the damage caused by the pandemic, the countries of the European Union and their governments must go to the end of the historically unrecorded fiscal expansion measures. But the question is, where to? The aim of today's legislative changes is to establish a budget fund for the current and smooth use of financial resources from the Recovery and Resistance Plan, an instrument whose weight and importance we will begin to understand only after we recognise that the rules under which we have played are no longer applicable. In a physical battle to stop the spread of the virus, and in an economic fight to prevent a financial disaster, what has been systematically rejected and neglected for many years is planning. In the era of the free market and the belief that market mechanisms and minimum government interventions are a cure for any problem, this function of the state administration has virtually died. We need to activate all state functions. Where necessary, action should be taken, not only to make recommendations for changing behaviour. Economic history clearly shows that all developed countries have been going through long, centuries of periods in which the country's active role has been crucial to their development. This development was supported by strong state interventions at the level and to the extent permitted by the historical moment. The most successful were the countries that managed their development and did not leave it only to market legality. The nature of the political regime does not determine who will respond better to the crisis. The pandemic is a dramatic crisis and states are beginning to become like each other. The main issues become efficiency, the level of trust in society, the experience of previous crises, the operationality of the state apparatus. Individual democracies can use policies that are hard to imagine in order to deal effectively with the crisis. This flexibility, however, is a sign of the power of democratic order, not a sign of its weakness. The budget fund, as it is intended, has a clearly defined purpose, resources and body responsible for its management and at its disposal. The extent of the Fund's resources is the most detailed indication that it will receive EUR 784.5 million in the next two years 2022 and 2023. The resounding and impressive numbers cover the traps behind which the potential relevance and inadequacy of agreed and coordinated policies can be concealed. Taking into account possible risks, we cannot overlook the role of individual ministries in implementing tasks and the Office for Budgetary Control in monitoring the correctness of consumption. The crisis we are facing is not only a deep economic crisis, but also a crisis of political institutions. It has always been a form of democracy that this is a kind of self-correcting political arrangement. Therefore, we should bear in mind that we have never had so much knowledge of our ignorance. And we have never had so much ignorance about the compulsion to live and work under conditions of uncertainty. Good state policy in times of emergency is a policy of action. Members of the Desus Group will therefore support amendments and additions to the Budget Implementation Act and the establishment of a budget fund for the use of European funds from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice to meet you! The amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2021 and 2022, which is before us today, regulates the necessary changes to determine the legal basis for the use of European funds from the so-called recovery and resilience mechanism, which are primarily designed to address the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. The use of these funds in Slovenia is based on projects included in the National Recovery Plan. The law will thus provide a legal basis for spending EUR 1.8 billion of European funds under the National Recovery Plan. These are projects and measures that are feasible until the end of 2026. The main solution to the bill is the establishment of a budget fund to finance the measures included in the National Recovery Plan to be managed by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Recovery and Resistance. The Fund will represent a budget account dedicated to the separate management of revenue and expenditure. It is of paramount importance that we establish as soon as possible all the legal bases for the use of the resources set out in the Recovery Plan, as they will make a significant contribution to the mitigation of the negative economic and social effects of the covida-19 epidemic and to prepare Slovenia for the challenges posed by the green and digital transition. In accordance with the Regulation establishing the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, Member States had to ensure, in their national recovery plans, that at least 37 per cent of available resources and 20 per cent of available resources are allocated to achieve the Digital Objectives. However, the Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan foresees more than 41 per cent to achieve the green objectives and more than 21 per cent to achieve the digital objectives, which we are extremely pleased with in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that European funds from the recovery and resilience mechanism are of exceptional importance to the country, so we will, of course, unanimously support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u16	Dear President, Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! ZIPRS, as a technical law, is not as important a law as it provides for the budget for the use of cohesion policy funds, the earmarked revenue and revenue of the State, the extent of the State's debt and the public sector's guarantee, the level of the average and other issues related to the implementation of the budget. A major change in ZIPRS for 2021/2022 is the establishment of a new Office for Recovery and Resistance at the Ministry of Finance, which will oversee the implementation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is the basis for the use of available resources from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. To this end, a budget fund shall be established, which shall be the accounting account of the budget and shall be opened in accordance with the Public Finance Act for the purpose of separate management of certain revenue and expenditure. It's all right up here. On the Committee on Finance, we had some concerns and questions in the LMŠ that we did not get concrete answers to. The fact is that the budget fund is an elegant implementation solution, not for monitoring, and we were wondering how we would know when and why money would be spent in the National Assembly. Given that we have poor experience in reporting on the reallocation of expenditure for co-vid last year, when you left the door to the track open and have been severely delayed, we have legitimate concerns about how transparent the Ministry of Finance will this time report to the National Assembly on the use of resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. All of this also gives rise to the idea that the creation of a new office for the fragmentation of powers in the control of projects to be invested by European funds. This will result in impreciseness, intransparency of procedures and, last but not least, in the non-trust of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion, since it is essentially a transfer of powers. Finally, we must also point out the problem of not naming delegated European prosecutors to monitor the use of resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan of the Circus 1.8 billion. This is what European Prosecutor Laura Kövesi also pointed out before the European Parliament's Committee of Budgets, saying: "How can Slovenia provide adequate and complete control of the bodies responsible for the management and supervision of EU funds in this situation. Is the EU budget adequately protected?" End of story. We are also asking this question in the LMŠ, because the Government, despite the court's acceptance of the actions of unnamed prosecutors, has still not carried out all the necessary procedures to resolve this matter. In short, there is one more matter that sheds a bad light on the Republic of Slovenia in the international community. In addition, the fact that for 2021 you did not prepare a budget rebalancing at the latest, this year's revision of the decree and that you have not explained at all what at least half of the estimated 670 million additional appropriations will be. But the red thing is the lack of transparency and lack of respect for the rule of law. That's why we won't support the LMŠZIPRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u18	President, distinguished Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! Last month, the Government sent a proposal to the National Assembly to amend the framework for the preparation of budgets, which would restore the budget spending this year by an additional €670 million, bringing it up just below €15 billion. For this reason, the published proposal for a final account for last year reveals that the Government has failed to realise all projected expenditure and revenue in the past year. However, from the reports on the implementation of this year's budget and government budget proposals for the next two years, it appears that the Government intends to go far beyond the permitted realization this year. If it failed to spend 800 million last year, it is clear this year that the government will spend a billion and a half or a thousand 500 million more than the existing revised budget allows it to do so. However, it is not necessary to point out that, in particular, European funds have been lagging behind plans for the second year and that, according to optimistic plans, their realisation this year will be behind budget plans for more than EUR 400 million. With all the warnings from fiscal guardians, according to our constitutional order and laws, we would expect the government to send forward a proposal for a budget rebalancing this year. Instead, we have received a new decree on the increase in the use allowed, the draft budgets for the coming years with unrealistic bases and increased spending, and this proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget, which would provide the Government with a basis for unfortunately untransparently having the resources it is expected to obtain from the implementation of the Plan for the Recovery and Recovery of Emergency European Resources. After the government has crossed all budgetary borders, this year it has spent a billion and a half more than it should have, and after it has spent some 650 million less European funds than it promised us in the last two years, the government is coming before us with a policy of enforcement and a Bianca check. He wants consent to the will and to the unclear allocation of all the funds to be received for recovery and resistance to the epidemic. All these funds are to be managed by a new government office, which is expected to have more than 250 million in the coming year, and in 2023 more than 450 million euros, for which spending is not clearly defined. She warned the Legal and Legislative Service that the proposal for a law was not sufficiently clear, unfortunately, it did not remain in the home committee, and we are now facing a proposal that does not, for example, distinguish between measures and projects and thus allows for the non-transparent treatment of funds. All of this is due to the fact that the Government obviously does not intend to include overexpenditures in the budgetary acts this year. Your Honor, this is not how public money can and cannot be treated. Why not? Since it is contrary to the constitutional provision that all revenue and expenditure should be in the budget and that is why today we should address the budget rebalancing for 2021 and give the government the chance to use an additional 10 per cent of the budget, even one and a half billion euros more, in an unconstitutional and illegal way, by its own will. Therefore, unfortunately, we cannot support this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body for the second reading of the draft law, and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr. Katja Lauter, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Apology. Maja Hostnik Kališek will present the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons sets out measures that address the situation we will face, that is, the consequences of the health and economic crisis due to covid-19. At the same time, it also lays down the measures necessary to comply with and transpose EU law into Slovenian legislation. The aim is to create a more conducive business environment, including clear and friendly administrative rules. The proposed measures support other policies such as employment policy, environmental policy and digitisation. The relevant transposition of EU law means transparent and appropriate taxation which effectively addresses the challenges affecting the tax base. The draft law is supplemented by amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Finance 6. 10. to the fourth paragraph of the draft law. The amendments included help to clarify the implementation and determination of sub-legislative acts. With the amendment, an additional relief has been provided for grants for excellent sport. The novelty of the bill is a link to the EU's list of jurisdictions that are not willing to participate for tax purposes. The criteria for listing the EU list mentioned above are transparency, fair taxation and compliance with internationally agreed tax measures against tax reduction and transfer of profits. According to the proposal of the law, the basis for the domestic list of so-called national lists, which already apply under the Law on the Tax of Legal Persons, will therefore lay down two bases for the classification of countries with so-called harmful tax systems and measures, the EU list and the national list. The fact is that international development in the field of international tax standards will have to be and will have to be taken into account. The EU guidelines on defence tax measures shall be followed and Article of the anti-tax rules Directive, which provides for the regulation of reverse hybrid mismatches for which the time limit for transposition is 31 December 2021, shall be transposed. As already mentioned, the bill sets out measures to promote recovery after the covida-19 pandemic. Among the important facilitations set out in the proposal for a law are new incentives to promote green and digital transitions and upgraded employment facilitation. Beneficiaries will be able to apply the benefits of new employment for young people under 29 years of age, to work in a profession for which job seekers are lacking in the labour market, and to employ those who enter employment for the first time, and to those who invest in the green and digital transition. The draft law lays down powers for sub-laws in order to facilitate the implementation of those provisions. It should be said that these areas are particularly green and digital transitions, where progress is almost every day both in Slovenia and globally, which will be taken into account in the preparation of sub-legislative acts. There is an increase in the relief for grants from 0.3 per cent of tax revenue and is being extended in the work with sport purposes, including a new additional relief for top sports grants. In addition, a higher facilitation is proposed to carry out practical work in vocational education. The proposed tax base measures mean more favourable and easier recognition of expenditure. Claims declared in the enforcement procedure or bankruptcy procedure shall be recognised more favourably than under the current regime. There is a clearer provision for the recognition of reservations expenditure. A special, more favourable arrangement is proposed for pension reservations, retirement pensions and anniversary prizes for a transitional period of up to and including 2026. In view of the above, the Government proposes to support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 38th meeting, on 6 October this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC, namely Article 4 of the bill. Members and members of the Committee were also invited to submit a proposal for an amendment to the Committee by the Group of Ambassadors of the Left, to Article 8. In an additional introductory explanation, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions of the draft law, which provides for more favourable tax measures than those in force and provides a more favourable administrative framework for taxation with simplifications and the pursuit of tax certainty. There is also a proposal for a law to harmonise national legislation with the European acquis. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had drawn up a written opinion and explained that the comments by the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI and SMC were partially taken into account. She pointed to Article 2 where their comments on the publication of the list of amendments tabled were taken into account, but there was a lack of language in the text. In the debate, some Members and members of the opposition were critical of the bill, which they said by raising tax reliefs means reducing the revenue of the budget. In the light of the regulation of the area of taxation, the need for taxation of assets and capital has been highlighted as crucial. Members of the coalition generally welcomed in the debate the proposal for a law that will work towards decommissioning the tax environment and will contribute to a more stimulating business environment and will have no major negative effects on the budget. The negative financial consequences of this law are estimated at €27 million, and annual revenues from this tax type range around €1 billion. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SMC to 2, 10, 13 and the amended Article 18 and adopted these amendments. The Committee also considered the proposal for an amendment of the Committee of the Left Group to Article 8 and did not accept it. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 24th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on organisation and police work within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Because there's no one from the government. Mr. Secretary. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Allow me once again to present the content of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police. First of all, this law regulates a new reporting requirement that will have to be implemented by all those carrying out supervisory activities. The policy on police direction and supervision, because there is a dilemma in this regulation as to whether it is a form of control and what powers supervisors can exercise. Thus, the law sets out more precisely what the supervisors need to do in this process. Another important issue in the law is the diversity of views on the minister's competence to guide the police in predictive procedures. The situation in which the State prosecutor is informed of the crime is more clearly regulated and the orientation of this crime is not taken over. In this case, of course, police officers carry out activities independently within the framework of legal powers and are subject to supervision by their superiors. As a result of the amendment to the Regulation on the cooperation of the State Prosecutor's Office, the police and other competent state authorities, which regulate in more detail all activities also with regard to the takeover of police work in the forecasting procedure, the amendment proposes the deletion of various rules on jurisdiction, which somehow ensures the elimination of all ambiguities or ambiguities. Furthermore, the National Investigation Office, as an internal organisational unit of the Criminal Police Administration, is placed in the police structure, so it is clear to whom the Director is subordinate. It is again clear in the paper that the Office is fully autonomous in the detection and investigation of criminal offences, but those, under the designation, self-service, where the Office itself chooses what it will investigate and does not investigate, but determines how and how a catalogue of those crimes must be prepared by the Office and is previously confirmed by both the Director of the Criminal Police and, of course, by the Director-General of the Police. We have further identified or identified in the law internal security records managed and maintained by the police for the purpose of carrying out police duties and ensuring internal security, and are supplementing the provisions on the security verification of tenderers. It is the verification of those who cooperate with the police either as natural persons or those involved in public procurement procedures or where the contractual relationship between the Ministry or the police and external contractors somehow arises. It is further redefined or more clearly defined that police officers should not be members of political parties or that the matter is being adequately extended to the level of municipal policies. With the aim of more efficient organisation of work and the process of obtaining jobs is laid down. Here, of course, we are talking about directors of police administrations, directors of police stations or police station chiefs and all those other leading jobs where they go, under terms, life mandates. In accordance with the strike agreement, this is a very important part of this law, and it is stipulated that police officers can also be paid in the coming years for those tasks that are specifically defined as superstandard. So in the review we have prepared, the ones most burdened, i.e. those directly on the ground, can also get up to 150 euros in higher wages, while for those who are more in the offices, this amount will be about half lower. Furthermore, it is provided that police officers are not entitled to strike during the course of their operations under Article 107(2) of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police, since in this case police operations in the event of natural and other accidents, in crisis, war or emergency situations may not occur in order to achieve an strike. The amendments also provide for better police organisation in the use of the auxiliary police, so that it is clearly determined who can or cannot participate in the auxiliary police. The age limit is increasing, so it is possible that auxiliary police officers are also more than 60 years old. In particular, more appropriate and fairer remuneration for those involved in the police is also being identified. In view of the solutions presented in the proposal of this Act on amendments and additions to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, I believe that the solutions are appropriate, and I propose that you support them as a Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 26th meeting and its first sequel on 6 October this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and work of the police. The representative of the proposalr, Mr Aleš Hojs, pointed out in his explanation that the objectives of the police's work in the first place were more effective. For this reason, all the provisions which have introduced disorder or the possibility of misunderstandings in cooperation and the direction of the public prosecutor's office and the work of the police are removed from the current legal order. Following the amendment of this law, as proposed, it will be clear that the police are, of course, autonomous when the Prosecutor does not take the lead and that, in accordance with all powers, he will carry out any activity as required by law. With regard to the National Investigation Office, it is proposed to remove the quasi autonomy that has allowed them to choose for themselves what will and will not do. The result was very poor. You all know that the National Bureau of Investigation has not carried out a single rebuttal investigation, while the crime scene of the police is very large. The National Investigation Office now makes sense for the appointment of its Director and all other powers to the police structure as a whole. With regard to the rest, it was pointed out that it allows for greater transparency of records and rewards for those involved in the process, while some issues with age and other conditions for police work are now more clearly regulated. In the debate, most members of the opposition objected to this law, bringing more politicisation. On the contrary, most of the members of the opposition, as well as some of the opposition, argued that it was precisely the opposite, because it was very clear that a police officer could not be a mayor, not a municipal councillor, nor otherwise participate in political structures, that this is now an additional precision for the depoliticisation of the police, which, given the actual situation on the ground in recent years, is clearly essential. In addition, most members supported efforts to make police work more efficient, as it is clear that the current work, in particular the National Investigation Office, was not satisfactory for anyone who actually knew the issues. At the end of the vote, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4, 5, 11, 13, 22, 23, 28 and 45 and one of its amendments to Article 10. The opposition's amendments were rejected together by eight amendments, followed by three special LMŠ and Levica, but did not vote on those amendments, namely paragraphs 42 and 44, and the other amendments to article 10 of the coalition, which became irrelevant. Finally, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The updated text of the bill, in accordance with all the amendments adopted, is an integral part of this report and I propose that we adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 24th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that's another defence proposal for a power-generating power-resistance bill under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Blaž Kosorok, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! The legal regulation of electricity supply in the Republic of Slovenia is entirely based on the legal regulation of this area in the European Union. This arrangement was amended in 2019 by adopting a package of one directive and three regulations. The basic objective of the bill is to bring to Slovenia the legal order of the news brought by Directive 2019/944 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on common rules for the internal market in electricity. Together with the directive, three European regulations have been adopted, the law regulates the way two of these regulations are implemented, where necessary, on the common electricity market, on risk preparedness in the electricity sector. The electricity supply alone is currently regulated, as you know, by the Energy Act. This law regulates several areas and has become very extensive over the years and can be said to be uncontrollable, so the second basic objective of the electricity supply law is to exclude electricity from the EZ-1 and transfer the content to a separate law. As early as 2019, by adopting the Energy Efficiency Act, the field of energy efficiency has been transferred and the adoption of the Renewable Energy Use Promotion Act in 2020 has also moved the area of promoting the use of renewable energy sources. Following the adoption of the ZOEE, according to the Electricity Supply Act, the EZ-1 division process will continue with the adoption of the Gas Supply Act, the Heat Supply Act and will end with the adoption of the Energy Policy Act. It is therefore a very extensive, coordinated project for the division of EZ-1 and for the simultaneous transposition of several new directives. The law is organised in such a way that the first chapter takes over the fundamental regulation of the whole area and the following chapters deal in detail with specific areas. Some areas of the directive and consequently the law are virtually unchanged. The basic principles of the functioning of the market remain, i.e. the division into market and regulated activities, the legal arrangements of the distribution and system operator and the way in which the network is determined. The Directive, and consequently the law, introduce some important innovations related to climate change and measures and the objectives adopted by the European Union in this regard. The law thus gives users the notion of an active customer, independent aggregators, energy communities of citizens, rights to a contract with a dynamic price, continued introduction of smart counters, the right to produce, store and sell electricity, the definition and monitoring of energy poverty, duties and prohibitions in the field of electromobility. So, honourable Members, the adoption of legislation is necessary in terms of maintaining and developing a well-functioning internal energy market. I would also like to point out that the deadline for transposition of the directive has expired by the end of 2019 and that the adoption of the law is also necessary to halt the infringement procedure already initiated by the European Commission against our country. In view of the number of amendments tabled, we propose to the National Assembly that the third reading of the bill be carried out at the same meeting and that the proposal be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members, good afternoon! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 32nd session. Ten. 2021 as a mother working on the Proposal for a Law on the supply of electricity submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure Blaž Kosorok pointed out that the basic objective of the proposal is to transpose into Slovenia the legal order of the novelties brought by the Directive on common rules of the internal market in electricity. He further pointed out that electricity supply is currently regulated by the Energy Act, which regulates several areas and has become very extensive and uncontrollable over the years. As a result, the second basic objective of the bill is to exclude electricity from the Energy Law and transfer the content into a separate law. However, the content of the most novelty contains a completely new chapter on the ratio of electricity to final customers. This chapter deals in more detail with the current provisions of the final customers' right, such as the right to choose freely the electricity supplier, the right to switch suppliers or the right to a clear and transparent account. The contractual rights of final customers and the specific rights of domestic consumers, which are also consumers, are more clearly and in detail regulated in terms of consumer protection law. The right to harmonise the contract with dynamic prices is also introduced, i.e. prices that are adapting to the market. For final customers, the possibility of harmonising the aggregation contract is also introduced and the law regulates the fundamental rights of the final customer in relation to such a contract. The proposal also lays down the fundamental rights of aggregators and the rules governing the adjustment of consumption through aggregation, allowing aggregators to enter the electricity market. Ms Marolt, representative of the Law and Law Service, explained that they had made particular comments on the bill and that the amendments tabled by the coalition members of the majority of the concerns raised were eliminated and, in some cases, additional informal clarifications were provided by the applicant. The Left Group proposes that Articles 37 to 44 of the draft law introducing a mechanism for the provision of production capacity. In their view, the introduction of such a mechanism is contrary to the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement and the objectives of the transition to a low-carbon society. The SDS Group has submitted a proposal for amendments to the Committee's amendments to a large number of articles aimed in particular at granting certain powers to the Government in respect of the award of concessions to electrical institutions, distributions, companies and powers to appoint more than one distributor. In the debate, the Committee adopted a larger number of amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and eight of its amendments, while the amendment of the left-wing Group was not accepted. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and also adopted them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u32	Your Honor! Today, we are deciding on a proposal for an electricity supply law regulating the consumer rights system, which provides a basis for reliable supply and consumer protection as final consumers of electricity. The draft law transposes the requirements of the EU Directive into the Slovenian legal order, which will ensure more competitive security, secure and affordable supply of electricity and energy services, taking into account the principles of secret development. There are also legal grounds for the operation of active customers, independent aggregators and the establishment of energy communities of citizens. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we recognize the reasons for the necessity of amending existing legislation, as we see great potential for improving efficiency in the field of electricity management in our country, but I would like to point out that some of the amendments to the articles adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space are contrary to our expectations. Among them, we want to lay out new conditions for the implementation of the distribution operator's activities. It is true that this Directive does not prescribe how Member States are to designate an operator of distribution systems of electricity, which in our view does not mean that a State is not obliged to comply with the rules on the award of concession contracts if it decides that national distribution operators will be determined directly by awarding concession contracts, i.e. without a call for tender. It seems, therefore, that the amendment of the articles seeks to justify the direct award of concessions to network owners, while we are of the opinion that we are moving away from the proper application of the rules of the European Union, as the Court of Auditors also points out. Before adopting legislation, a comprehensive study should be carried out on the regulation of electricity distribution companies in our country and then one of the two possible solutions identified by the Ministry of Infrastructure itself in the response report to the audit report. As stated, the first solution is towards the award of concessions to the five distribution networks, but only after they are no longer owned by electricity companies and will be owned by 100 % of the state. The second possible solution, however, foresees the integration of all five electricity distribution companies and SODO into one company, so we believe that we are in the future awaiting regulation of this legislation in the amended order. Both solutions enable the elimination of the current situation, which we have never claimed is good when electricity companies are not operators of the public service and the SODO is dependent on the services of these companies and does not own much of the infrastructure. We have always advocated the equal development of all Slovenian regions in the modern centre Party Group. In our opinion, however, the new regime should be in the best interests of the entire energy system, as it will only allow us to pursue the objectives that we have set ourselves in the framework of the long-term climate strategy and the National Energy and Climate Plan as well as the necessary investments in the distribution network and ensuring the integration of distributed energy from renewable sources. The fragmentation of the transfer of power from the distribution network operator to a number of smaller companies could be seen as a step in contrast to these efforts to develop an evenly developed and coordinated extension of the electricity network and to carry out many projects for a lower price both for individual customers and for the economy in industrial zones throughout Slovenia, as we have seen in the past, and the construction of both divided transformer stations and many transformer stations across Slovenia. This has indirectly helped the economy and, as a result, has also affected the development of economic sectors and employment and the growth of GDP. Let me get this straight. Large distribution operators are mostly more development-oriented than small ones and reach higher levels of profitability, as shown by the results of an appropriate analysis of comparable countries. Let Slovenia go with a smart decision to choose a major distribution operator to take care of coordinated development. Since we have been assured that the analysis and study of the arrangements of all six companies of the electricity distribution companies and distribution operator in the Slovenian electricity distribution will be carried out and that further steps will follow the analysis, we will support the proposal of the law in the modern centre Party Group in spite of the above arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u34	The Honorable President. Fellow Members and Members, Secretary of State! The Electricity Supply Act, which is being dealt with today, is one of a number of laws that the Ministry of Infrastructure has excluded from the Energy Act by area. We immediately welcomed this move, as the fact that the Energy Law was imprudent and difficult to deal with because of its content and its content and its many areas. In addition, the proposal for a law with it transposes into our legal order the European Clean Energy Directives for all Europeans, by which the European Union has renewed its energy policy framework. If we know that the package provides regulatory preconditions for the transition to clean energy, and if we know that it is intended to put pressure on the way in the European Union to achieve its commitments under the Paris Agreement, then we also know how important it is that we bring the package into our legal order as soon as possible. After all, it is not irrelevant that we have already received an official reminder from the European Commission due to the non-admission of all the measures contained in the Directive. As already mentioned, the bill inherited some of the content and simply transferred it from the Energy Act, and there are also many innovations that are mainly due to the transposition of one of the European directives. Many new concepts are introduced and defined. The draft law also further shares, for example, the priority use of resources, which is also an important issue for the future. Representatives of the Government have repeatedly stressed that most of the innovations contain a chapter on the relationship of electricity companies with final customers. This will give them the first opportunity to conclude a contract with dynamic prices or prices that are adapting to the market. They will also be able to conclude supply contracts with multiple suppliers or aggregators at the same time as was the right so far reserved only for the largest customers. New developments are also important in terms of the definition of terms, such as the energy community of citizens or active customers, which also broadcast electricity on the network. It seems particularly important to us in the light of the current situation that the definition of energy poverty, which the energy law has never known as a predecessor, has also gained its place in the law. In these days, it has been repeatedly stressed that the country has an impact on the price of electricity, and we also expect the Ministry to do everything in its power to really limit and ease these prices in the best way possible, so that consumers do not feel that energy prices are rising rapidly on their own. This is especially important for all those who have already been without all the encouragement that we have witnessed and who will no doubt grow up, live, and live below the threshold of poverty. The data says that about 254,000 individuals, including some 97,000 pensioners, should be such. The Ministry owes all these individuals action to prevent their slip into even greater poverty. Several amendments were adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, and it is worth noting that the members of the opposition and the coalition have been adopted unanimously. We are pleased that we have again found consensus on important things. Among the amendments adopted, it is appropriate to issue a special amendment which will allow the owner of an important part of the existing distribution system to be granted a direct concession under certain conditions. Given that these owners of the distribution company who are already engaged in the distribution of electricity activity, we believe that this is a welcome change. At all, we believe that we have addressed important areas with joint amendments. In the SAB Group, we voted in favour of the proposal for a law already in the home working body, and we will do the same for all Members at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The electricity supply sector is currently regulated in a very large-scale energy law. Two areas have already been excluded from the Act, namely the Law on the Effective Use of Energy and the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Sources of Energy, and this time the area of electricity supply will be regulated by a new stand-alone law, thus achieving greater transparency and easier performance of tasks and faster coordination of national legislation with European Union legislation. The proposed law, on the one hand, without substantive changes, merely transposes certain content under the applicable Energy Act, such as, for example, the basic principles of market functioning, the division into market and regulated activities, the legal arrangements of the distribution and system operator and the way in which the network is established. On the other hand, the legislative package Clean Energy for All Europeans is transposed into the Slovenian legal order by means of a bill. The new regulation introduces a directive which aims at establishing comprehensive competitive, flexible, fair and transparent electricity markets in the EU, at the heart of which is the customer. Although the deadline for transposition of the said Directive has already expired, the applicant also substantiates the importance of the early adoption of the law under consideration from this point of view. The draft law lays down, inter alia, the rules governing the functioning of the electricity market, production, transmission, distribution, storage and supply of electricity, as well as the rights and protection of final customers. There are also ways and means of implementing economic public services in the field of electricity transmission and distribution and the electricity market. The principles and measures to achieve secure electricity supply as well as measures to prevent energy poverty are also being regulated. In this way, certain rights of final customers such as the right to freely choose an electricity supplier, the right to exchange a supplier or the right to a clear and transparent account shall be regulated in more detail. In addition, the draft law also sets out the contractual rights of final customers and sets out the specific rights of home customers. Among other things, the right to conclude a contract with dynamic prices is introduced, i.e. prices that are adapting to the market. The possibility of concluding an aggregation contract shall also be introduced for final customers. The bill allows aggregators to enter the electricity market. As a novelty, let me also stress the energy communities of citizens that will be regulated in the legal form of a cooperative. Within the energy community, electricity transfers are possible between its members, while members of the community retain the rights they enjoy as final customers. The area of introduction of advanced measurement systems is also being upgraded. The bill thus obliges the distribution operator to install advanced counters for final customers and also proposes new developments regarding the acquisition of an energy permit. The bill represents the alignment of the Slovenian acquis with European legislation and is key to the further development of the Slovenian electricity market, so we will unanimously support it in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u38	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Slovenia has already received an official reminder from the European Commission due to delays in transposition and validation of the Directive. The proposal for a law transposes the legislative package Clean Energy for all Europeans into the Slovenian legal order, notably Directive 944, whose transposition deadline has already expired at the end of last year. While some of the content is transferred from the current Energy Act, it also brings important novelties. Most of them are in the section on the ratio of electricity companies to final customers. The right to free choice of electricity suppliers, the right to exchange suppliers or the right to a clear and transparent account shall be regulated in more detail. The proposal contains a clearer and more detailed set of contractual rights for final customers and the specific rights of home customers. Additional news is active customers who also broadcast electricity to the electricity network. The new is also an energy community of citizens governed by the law in the form of a cooperative, within which electricity transfers are possible between its members, while members of the community retain the rights they enjoy as final customers. Furthermore, in the field of electromobility, it is prohibited for distribution system operators to own, develop, manage or operate filling stations for electric vehicles. We will therefore support the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members because it is crucial in the further modernisation of the Slovenian electricity market and creates a legal basis for modern services that will benefit the consumer. Once again, we would like to draw attention to the harmful solution adopted by the amendment of the ruling coalition to Article 167 of the Law, which is why, together with the Members of the LMŠ, we have proposed an amendment to this Article at both the meeting of the home working body and the plenary meeting, where solutions have been adopted in contravention of the provisions of the Directive of the European Union. For the Directive does not lay down the legal basis for the confiscation of rights to final customers with the self-sustainment they have under this Directive. The transitional provision of this Article summarises the first paragraph of Article 72 of the Act already in force on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources, after which final customers may register as final customers by the end of 2023 with self-sustainment under the Regulation on self-sustainment of electricity from renewable energy sources. The solutions adopted by the Committee, however, deprive these customers of the possibility of exercising certain rights that the Internal Market Services Directive defines as the rights of final active customers. It is a matter of rights which Member States, in the national legal order, are obliged to ensure to all final customers. Registered final customers with self-sustainment under the current Regulation and Article 315a of the Energy Act may exercise these rights directly under the Directive of the European Union. Therefore, this law cannot discriminate against this group of final customers and the Ministry of Infrastructure should lay down the solutions and conditions under which they could exercise the rights they already have directly under the Internal Market Services Directive. According to our assessment, these final customers may initiate proceedings before the European Commission as a result of incorrect transposition of the Directive and thus related discrimination. Who are these final customers? Those who already have or will build solar power plants on their roofs by 2023. At the end of 2020, 11 000 990 solar power plants were jointly installed in Slovenia in a total power of 371 megawatts. In 2020 alone, 3 000 947 new solar power plants were installed in a total power of 55 megawatts. At this rate an additional 12,000 solar power plants could be installed by the end of 2023. The provision of Article 167 will make it impossible for those applying the green energy transition to take advantage of the new options offered by this law under the directive, of the 24,000 solar self-sustainment producers mentioned. What does that mean? That these small self-sustaining electricity producers will not be entitled to flexible services or to dynamic tariffs. And why not? Since the calculation under that Regulation is different from that imposed by this law. So they will be punished for investing in the production of electricity from renewable energy sources at all, and because the country has no idea how to adjust the current calculation. In doing so, let us recall Slovenia's binding goals, which will have to increase the share of renewable energy sources in its energy balance to 25 per cent by the end of last year. The objective has not been achieved, which may also result in financial penalties on the part of the State. And a second time. That the present energy crisis shows that we must think primarily in the direction of energy self-sufficiency. If we have to import gas and oil, we have enough power to ensure as much self-sustainment as possible by producing electricity from the sun. Therefore, administrative barriers and restrictions for small producers are totally incomprehensible until 2023. In the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament and Members, we call for the amendment to Article 167 to be supported or for the Ministry to give indeed justified reasons why discrimination against self-sustaining owners of small solar power plants until 2023 is justified and in which it is even consistent [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u39	Please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u40	by the Directive of the European Union. [[…]] We ask the ruling coalition what will be different after 2024. The sun will shine the same, only that the coalition will be second.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u41	Buddy Rajic, please. We've been a minute. The next one has the word Dušan Šiško, which will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u42	Your Honor! We have before us one of the six laws on which the Government has broken down the Energy Act for reasons of greater clarity and transparency. In order to take account of the public, many areas are regulated entirely on a new track in accordance with European Union law. The material is extensive and professional, so those who are not in these waters do not understand it. We were expecting an in-depth debate on the Home Working Committee, but it was not, in fact, a brief presentation. In the Slovenian national side we have recently observed that electricity prices go to the sky, because for every time you go to a tanked car, gasoline, oil, also natural gas is auctioned. However, our citizens and citizens will also know this in the electricity and heating account. This is not the topic, but the higher prices would have to be limited if not, even for food people will not have. We are pleased that these are new consumer rights that will benefit them. When consumers conclude contracts, they must understand them so they are not too complicated and too extensive. The supplier must fully inform them of the associated costs and risks of contracts with dynamic electricity prices. It is also important that the Agency is the one who watches over all market developments and then assesses the risks posed by new products and services. A practice that leads to potential abuse, speculation and unjustifiable profit must be considered. We find it interesting that the energy community of citizens can be set up by members who are connected to the distribution system in the Republic of Slovenia, where citizenship is not a condition for membership. Why, then, does Article 24 provide for the energy community of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? That's what we're interested in. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the very citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia should be a condition for membership, so that not everyone is on average inside. We welcome the progressive measurement, which certainly provides us with more information, data and, above all, less care than a common counter, as it automatically sends and receives data. In practice, most of us had problems with normal counters, because we did not see enough counter readings because they were pollinated, but we also forgot many times and then accounted for the amount back in the next period. The law is also socially oriented and in favour of vulnerable groups. It is wise that the distribution operator of the consumer must inform the consumer in a notice and in a reminder prior to the withdrawal of the possibility and conditions of emergency care, as well as of the obligations to avoid any misunderstandings. We're just living in an epidemic when a lot of people are out of a job. The cost of living goes only up, so it is appropriate to take care of poor households, so that they too will be warm in the winter. It will certainly be necessary to work on the vision of the development of the distribution system, the network, in order to have one clear picture ahead of us for years to come. Infrastructure will have to develop in the right direction. The budget resources will be sufficient, as in the light of sustainable mobility we will need many more filling places for electric vehicles. A step in the right direction is also giving out excess energy, irrespective of origin. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that the law is urgently needed if, as a whole, we want to achieve European objectives in the field of climate neutral society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u44	President, thank you for your word. Hello, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the Government, the proposer of the electricity supply law, is to bring the national legal order into line with European Union law. The draft law and the amendments tabled in Slovenia transpose the legislative acts of the so-called Clean Energy package for all Europeans concerned with the functioning of the electricity market and Article of the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. The draft law lays down rules for the functioning of the electricity market, production, transmission, distribution, maintenance and supply of electricity, together with provisions for the protection of final customers, the modalities and modalities for the implementation of economic public services in the field of electricity transmission and distribution and the electricity market. The law of some areas does not change, namely the current regulation of the economic public services in the field of transmission, distribution and market operator, as well as the basic regulated electricity markets. In a completely new way, European law regulates the rights of final customers, the progressive measurement, the introduction of active customers and the energy community. Energy poverty is defined, ownership and management of energy storage providers and the scale of systemic solutions is regulated. The energy regulator also receives more powers. The fundamental purpose of this law is to ensure competitive, safe, reliable and affordable supply of electricity and energy services, taking into account the principles of sustainable development. To improve the law with the proposed coalition amendments, we also follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This is how we support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u46	President, thank you for your word. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the past, consumers have been more or less passive in the role of electricity consumers. The amount of electricity we consume changes during the day and is generally considered to be the highest demand in the morning and evening when most electricity is obtained from non-renewable sources. The fact is that the power grid in Slovenia is still relatively rigid and sudden too much consumption or too much hypnotic electricity production can cause problems for the system. It is therefore necessary to align demand on the one hand and supply on the other hand as much as possible in order to use electricity when it is sufficient on the network, mainly from renewable sources, and to reduce consumption when there is a lot of demand for electricity. This enables the modernisation of the energy sector. As an example, let me give you smart counters that automatically read the consumption. Such data will help suppliers prepare new offers for consumers, such as flexible services and dynamic tariffs. With the introduction of advanced services, we will achieve two things: we will allow households to use as much electricity as possible when it is also available from renewable sources and cheaper, while at the same time we will relieve the distribution network and thus contribute to the security of electricity supply. Finally, this is also in line with environmental objectives and the transition to a carbon-free society. If I give a concrete example, citizens will be able to fill their electric car at the time of the day when electricity surplus will be on the grid and it will be cheaper and possibly obtained from renewable energy sources. The introduction of a dynamic tariff is, of course, a condition for this. Today's law and the transposition of the directive thus provide a legal basis for these advanced services in favour of consumers. At this point, it is worth mentioning that the current government has been late for almost a year with the transposition of the directive and we have already received an official reminder from the European Commission. Key innovations that are transposed into national legislation and have a positive impact on final consumers include the possibility of entering into multiple open electricity supply contracts, entering into dynamic prices contracts, aggregating contracts with independent aggregators, and the possibility of membership in the energy community of citizens. This is therefore a new option for consumers who can reduce their electricity bill in this way. And at a time when energy prices are rising dramatically, it's very important. It is therefore incomprehensible in the LMŠ that not all final customers will receive the benefits of the transposition of the directive. With Article 167 of the bill, you will deprive those final customers who will register as final customers with self-sustainment by the end of 2023 of the existing Self-sustainment Regulation of the possibility of exercising certain rights laid down in the European Directive. Thus, for example, you will prevent all current and future owners of domestic juice plants from entering into dynamic prices contracts by the end of 2023 or from concluding a withdrawal contract with multiple suppliers. In addition to the absence of a legal basis for such discrimination in the Directive, this is also unacceptable for us because it is a dynamic price instrument that helps to increase the reliability of the electricity network and thus reduces the necessary investment in grid upgrades. That is why today, together with the rest of the opposition, we are re-imposing an amendment that would eliminate this potential discrimination and allow all users of the rights set out in the European Directive under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u48	Say good-bye again! The Blood Energy Act is becoming increasingly extensive and opaque, and part of this law is the area of electricity supply, which is being regulated due to impreciseness in a separate law that Members and Members will decide at this meeting. Applicants argue that the content of a separate law will be more transparent and that the legal solutions will be easier and quicker implemented and that it will be easier to harmonise national legislation with European Union legislation. This law is not only a matter of regulating electricity supply in a separate law, but also of transferring to the Slovenian legal order the Clean Energy package for all Europeans, which is part of the EU directive which Slovenia should transpose into national law by the end of 2020. Among other things, the law brings important news. A new actor, the so-called aggregator offering energy services to customers, the right of final customers to conclude a contract with dynamic prices or prices to adapt to the market, is being set up or identified at the same time. It shall be prohibited for distribution system operators to own, develop, manage or operate filling stations for electric vehicles. It also regulates the obligation of electro-operators to order system services on the market, including final customers, aggregaters and energy communities of citizens. The Electricity Supply Act also received support from the competent Commission of the State Council, which considers the law to be crucial in the further modernisation of the Slovenian electricity market. The Commission of the State Council also expects the adoption of the law as soon as possible, since Slovenia has already received an official notice from the European Commission because it has not yet taken all measures to transpose in particular the directives into national law. In the Social Democrats Group, we did not oppose the law on the home labour body, but we also proposed a few proposals for amendments to the committee. The proof that the law needed some additional corrections is to submit and propose amendments to the committee at the meeting of the parent body. We have supported some of the amendments in the Common SD, and we have also supported the final form of the law. The law brings the solutions that are needed, and with the amendments adopted we have further improved the content of this. In the SD Group, we see no reason to oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law transposes European directives. While some of the legal content is preserved or transferred from the current Energy Law, it also offers some novelties. A new actor, the so-called aggregator, is being set up to provide energy services to customers. The right of final customers to conclude a contract with dynamic prices or prices to be adapted to the market shall be introduced. All customers are given the opportunity to conclude supply contracts with multiple suppliers or aggregators at the same time. So far, this right has only been reserved for the largest customers. Active customers are being introduced, which also transmit electricity to the network. While the status of such customers in the field of electricity self-sustainment from renewable sources has now been partially regulated, their status is now being regulated irrespective of the source of electricity. Energy communities of citizens are also being introduced, within which electricity transfers are possible between its members, which preserve the rights they enjoy as final customers. A sufficient supply mechanism is also in place. In the field of electromobility, it is also prohibited for distribution system operators to own, develop, manage or operate filling stations for electric vehicles. The obligation of operators to order system services on the market, including final customers, aggregators and energy communities of citizens, is being regulated. Some of the things introduced by the Proposal for an Electricity Supply Act or better addressed, we have already proposed in the past in Levica, for example, community supply from the OVE. However, the law also has one novelty that we disagree with in Levica and see in it possibilities for subsidising the production of electricity from fossil fuels. It is a so-called mechanism to provide production capacity. The introduction of this mechanism is contrary to the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement and the objectives of the transition to a low-carbon society. Capacity-building mechanisms allow large energy companies to serve with subsidies that spend public money on the maintenance of non-profit-based polluting power plants. The financing of dirty energy overheats the planet, pollutes the environment and endangers human lives and, of course, animals and other nature. The promotion of coal, natural gas and nuclear energy also slows the transition to 100% renewable energy sources, which is crucial to preventing climate chaos that we Europeans are already beginning to experience in everyday life. Production capacity delivery mechanisms are often used under the pretext of ensuring the stability of the electricity market to create the conditions for subsidising carbon-intensive production capacities and excluding production from renewable energy sources. This is also, in fact, probably also the reason for the introduction of a mechanism to provide production capacity, that this mechanism was not actually included in the law which was put into public debate, but only after the adoption of the government. In Slovenia, such facilities are represented by blocks of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. And then, of course, we have TES6. It is the direct financial burden on electricity consumers to pay for the investment that has proved to be the biggest corruption affair in the history of countries. And Velenje's coal mine needs to be shut down as soon as possible. The State aid for the restructuring of the Shale region is undoubtedly necessary, but these subsidies cannot and must not be intended for the further operation of the thermal power plant, but rather for its closure, re-employment, retirement and social protection of workers and workers currently employed in the TES and coal sector, the rehabilitation of mining areas, the economic development of the region and the promotion of production capacity for renewable energy sources. That is why, of course, we have also proposed in Levica that the possibility of introducing a mechanism to provide additional production capacity under the proposal for a law be deleted, but the amendment has not been adopted. In the Group of the Left, we will be abstaining from voting on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The electricity supply sector, which is currently regulated in a materially excessive Energy Act, is being reordered in a separate electricity supply law. This makes it possible to improve transparency and facilitate the performance of tasks and to ensure that national legislation is further coordinated with European legislation. The proposal for a law transposes the legislative package Clean Energy for all Europeans into the Slovenian legal order by means of a directive of the European Union, whose transposition deadline has already expired by the end of 2020. In addition, the law redefines in particular the rules governing the functioning of the electricity market and regulates electricity activities, i.e. production, transmission, distribution and storage and supply of electricity. It also regulates the protection of end-users and users of the electricity system, as well as the ways and means of implementing economic public services in the field of electricity transmission and distribution and the electricity market. The law also lays down rules to achieve reliable electricity supply and measures to prevent energy poverty. Thus, the proposal for a new law provides for the possibility of concluding a contract with so-called dynamic prices, i.e. prices adapting to the market, while the proposal protects final customers, since the supplier must fully inform them of the opportunities, costs and risks of contracts with dynamic electricity prices prior to the conclusion of the contract. Among other things, the law regulates or defines a new actor, the so-called aggregator, who offers final customers the provision of energy services and gives them the possibility to conclude an aggregate contract without the consent of the supplier or the operator. The bill also contains the concept of active customers. This is for customers who also broadcast electricity to the network. Although such customers already existed, their situation was only partially regulated in the area of self-sustainment of electricity from renewable sources. These consumers are now guaranteed by law that they can enter the market without disproportionate or discriminatory requirements and are not subject to disproportionate networks. Due to the expected more active role of final customers who can also produce and sell energy, store it in the community or participate in the market through aggregaters, the limit between producers and customers is thus deleted. The rules are thus laid down mainly on the basis of the electricity taken over and delivered. Special attention is also paid in the law to the introduction of an advanced measuring system that will allow for the earliest access to data via a specific data interface on the counter. In line with the directive, however, the proposal for a new directive regulates the emergency care of the final customer who has lost his supplier and the urgent care of the most vulnerable customers. Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will certainly support the bill. We are convinced that the objectives of our energy policy must be safe supply, environment and climate-friendly acquisition and use of energy and appropriate and competitive prices. The global rise in energy needs, high energy prices and growing international risks by providing energy to us, the Member States of the European Union are committed to finding common concepts for energy supply, and this law is also being followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 Ten. 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 112 and the amendment or amendment of the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 149a and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SMC groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 167, as well as the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Only one interested. Comrade Paulich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you, President, for your word. I came here because this article seems extremely important to me and the bill, as it is now on the table, is also harmful or discriminatory to a particular population of final customers. In particular, this Directive brings new rights and also new benefits to electricity consumers, and the Directive speaks of these rights for all consumers. If I can say very quickly what these are, in my opinion, are key rights: the right of the customer to conclude several contracts for the supply of electricity with several suppliers so that the customer can conclude a contract with dynamic prices – this seems extremely important to me, given that prices can change during the day. This right gives the customer the opportunity to decide when to increase electricity consumption by price; as a rule, when the price is lower, for example, he will decide to fill the electric car. Then the right to conclude aggregation contracts with independent aggregators and to become a member of the energy community of citizens. The proposal for a law or a proposal by the Government restricts a certain part of the right to consumers, namely, consumers who have installed solar power plants, domestic solar power plants on the roof. When I looked at the explanation of this article by which the Government takes the rights of these active customers, there are in fact no valid or justified reasons why they are deprived of this right. In some ways, Slovenia and the whole world have committed themselves to some environmental objectives of transition to a carbon-free society. The Republic of Slovenia promotes the construction of solar power plants and, at the same time, the same law, including environmentally-aware citizens, takes certain rights to reduce their electricity prices in the final stage. Of course, in recent times we can see that prices are rising dramatically both in natural gas and in electricity. It certainly does not seem fair to me that the rights of active customers are taken away from those who have a solar power plant on the roof. Let me also mention that I have read very carefully the directive that we are transposing, and this directive does not speak in any article about the possibility of a certain part of citizens being discriminated against. Thus, together with the rest of the opposition, we are re-imposing an amendment so that all citizens under the same conditions can benefit from these rights as the European Directive. And in some ways, I appeal to all Members and Members to reconsider whether this bill is in line with the directive and if you agree with our argument that you also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the prohibition of the sale of plastic products for end-use within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 39 Members and Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Andrey Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u56	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have a second review of the law banning the placing on the market of certain plastic single-use products in the Republic of Slovenia. In the SAB party as a co-signatory of LMŠ, SD and Levica, we would like to transpose, on a legal basis, part of the European directive, which reduces pollution by plastic in the seas and oceans. The Adriatic Sea, especially the northern part, is one of the seas most burdened with particles of microplastics in the world, and the environment is also burdened. Many ask why this is a Slovenian problem, because our sea is small and Slovenia's influence in the global sense is negligible. Microplastics, its particles enter the world's seas and oceans across rivers and lakes. This is what the profession is talking about, and young people and civil society are also alerting. As confirmed by invited guests, young researchers, student of the Gymnasium Franz Miklošič of Ljutomer, we have a problem in Slovenia. Microplastic particles were detected in aquatic organisms in the Mura River, while Ecologists without borders warn that after the microplastics are loaded, the Sava River is the front of the river. Microplastics pass through water into aquatic organisms, into the food chain and into humans. The latter were confirmed in 2018 and confirmed in 2020 even in the placenta of the embryo and scientists are united so that these particles can damage the development of the child in the long term. And if we are aware that more than half of the plastic in the seas and oceans comes from disposable plastic products, usually short-term use, i.e. products that are normally discarded for short-term use, then it is logical and correct to restrict or prohibit their placing on the market and use them. In particular, at the time of the covida epidemic, we have further seen the extent of the use of such products, products, packagings; packagings that provided consumers with food to their homes; and drinks and food for themselves. We have therefore been proactive in the SAB party and have drafted the law and put it into the legislative process. We are of the opinion that the protection and protection of the environment and nature must be ensured at the legal level. What we are doing with this proposal for a law is to transpose in Slovenian the legal order part of the European directive, which must be implemented by all Member States. The deadline for transposition of the Directive expired on 1 July and the European Union has not yet drawn up all the guidelines and regulations and the Government, which has therefore not adopted the Regulation until 19 August. The proposed law prohibits the placing on the market in the Republic of Slovenia of all products made of oxodegradable plastic and the following most commonly used products or products for single use. These include cutlery, plates, straws, lime sticks, mixed drinks sticks, balloon fastening sticks and balloon support, food containers from an expanded polyester. The draft law was given a green light in the National Assembly to be suitable for further consideration. We have therefore completed the proposal until today's second reading in accordance with the comments made by the competent professional services of the Government and the National Assembly. We have completed or amended the title of the law, aligned the use of the term with the expression in the Regulation and the Directive, supplemented the articles, made minor amendments to the nomotechnical nature. Before you, honourable Members, there is a proposal for a law with the amendments submitted to each article. Protection of the environment and nature, sustainable use of resources, promotion of the development of the circular economy and, last but not least, the protection of human health and the health of still unborn children are values that we all advocate. I therefore welcome and thank you for the support that has been shown so far for Members and Members of the National Assembly, and I also ask for further support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u58	The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 32nd session. Ten. 2021 The draft law prohibiting the sale of plastic products for single use, which was forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with Ms Maša Kociper, first signed, addressed to the National Assembly. In the introductory explanation, the rapporteur shall be mag on behalf of the applicant. Andrej Reich explained the main solutions and objectives of the bill. He suggested that the proposed law should regulate the scope of the restriction and prohibition on the placing of plastic products on the market quickly and effectively. In order to reduce the negative impact on the environment, the proposal prohibits placing on the market and making plastic products for single or short-term use and products of oxo-degradable plastics available on the market. The aim of the bill is to reduce the use of single-use plastic products which are wholly or partly made of plastic and are normally intended only for single or short-term use and then discarded, either by preventing or preventing use in short-term products not designed for reuse or by ensuring cost-effective recycling. The proposal seeks to remove from the market a group of products for single or short-term use which can be replaced by alternative products which are also affordable. On behalf of the Government, Mr State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mr Robert Rožac, stressed that the Government is 20. 8. 2021 adopted a Regulation which duly prohibited the placing on the market of disposable plastic products. He stressed that the Government had initially opposed the proposal to the law, but now that the proposal for a law was in line with the proposed amendments, the Government had no reason to object, even if the proposal for a law would be in line with the matters raised by the Legislative and Legal Service, so that the part of the proposal provided for by the law would determine what the regulation was and what the law was or whether the application of the regulation on certain matters should be terminated. Amendments to the amendment tabled by the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica members to Article 3 and stating that the Government has assessed the content of the products placed on the market in more detail by the Regulation as being correct. Ms Špela Macek Gustin, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, explained that in her opinion, the PSC had pointed out the inappropriate wording in Article 1 of the bill, which could have a significant impact on the clarity of the proposed regulation. Thus, Article 1 overlaps by content with Article 2. The proposal for a law should also be defined by a government regulation which already exists and actually regulates the same matter, but somewhat differently, and therefore respect for the rule of law and the principle of equality before the law is also questioned in this regard. The comments of the ZPS are, in principle, duly taken into account and also implemented with the amendments of the opposition groups sent by the opposition. The text of the amendment to Article 1 is unclear. However, the new Article 5a pointed out the possibility that the government regulation would not be harmonised within the time limit provided for in Article 5a and that, despite this provision, there could be a lack of respect for the rule of law and the principle of equality, which should be resolved in a clear manner. In the debate, the LMŠ Group, Levica, SD, stressed that they supported the bill. They pointed out that there is a mental leap to a better world, a world free of plastic, needed both for humans and for animals and plants and for the environment. In addition, they warned that the amount of plastic in water, food and living organisms should be reduced. They expressed the hope that future discussions on the plastic product problem would be positive in terms of pursuing the objective of reducing the quantity of plastic in food, water and land, as plastic products are a problem of being overly decomposed and causing too much damage to both living organisms and the environment. They stressed that they hoped that the way to a carbon-free society would be what they wanted and imagined, and, of course, without plastic, and that in the future, we would have to listen more often to young people, who were also fortunate here in the National Assembly. I must say that they are very professional and that the future is young. In the SAB Group, they stressed that they were satisfied that there was a general consensus in solving the problem and that the bill had a broader consensus that went beyond political divisions to coalition and opposition. They also stressed that the bill constitutes or strengthens the constitutional right to safe and clean drinking water. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levico Group as new Article 5a and Article 6. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and, of course, adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Robert Rožac, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u60	President, thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! At first, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not support the proposal for a law prohibiting the sale of plastic products for single use, which is 11. 6. 2021 A group of Members and Members, signed by Ms Maša Kociper, submitted to the National Assembly. Following the amendments tabled, the proposal of the Terminology Act has also been made in the title of the law, which is also mentioned by Mr Reich in his address now, and the articles and measures have changed in a direction which, in order to prohibit the sale of certain plastic products for single use, means the transfer of this measure in a ban under Directive 2019/904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. With the amendments already tabled, these shortcomings have largely been resolved and we are not opposed to the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 24th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18 October 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I've got two reports. First of all, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, you are most welcome! I would just like to express my satisfaction that, at last, one law, which is obviously almost – so at least now it shows – has been unanimously adopted. It is true that when we prohibit single-use plastics, we will not solve all problems, but every step in managing the environmental, climate and environmental crisis is a useful step. Of course, Member Group, that's what I'm saying, this law, because we are co-signers, we will also support it. However, I would like to see a similar atmosphere when we re- table a resolution that will show that we are living in a time of environmental and climate crisis, so that we can reach consensus at that time. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All present, welcome! Our planet is under pressure caused by a rapidly growing population. Globally, it is estimated that we will need 50 percent more food and 45 percent more energy in less than 20 years. With such increasing consumption, however, the available resources remain limited. Each year, almost 15 tonnes of raw materials are spent per person in the European Union, while every citizen of the European Union on average generates more than 4.5 tonnes of waste per year. Almost half of this waste ends up in landfills. It's such information that it's just to be imagined. By moving to the circular economy, we are redirecting ourselves to re-use, repair, reconstruction and recycling of existing raw materials and products; what used to be considered waste is now a source. This is followed by a proposal for a law that we have today on sent-off benches aimed at reducing the use of plastic packaging in a way that either prohibits the use of short-term products that are not intended for reuse, or professionally efficient recycling is ensured. We agree with this in the Group of Non-Related Members, because this would reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment, particularly on the water environment, and consequently affect human health. This would follow sustainable resource use strategies, nature conservation and the circular economy. Non-aligned Members advocate structural changes in waste management, including the collection, transport, processing and disposal of waste, including monitoring of waste management. Effective waste management can contribute significantly to the efficient use of resources and are essential for meeting the needs of society and ensuring its further development and existence. In these changes, we are particularly committed to reducing the occurrence of wastes made from materials that cannot be recycled and have a long time of decommissioning. Such single-use or short-term product groups should, in our view, be removed from the market while replacing them with more sustainable and safe alternative products such as paper, cardboard, wood, clay, cellulose fibres, sugar cane, maize starch and so on. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out the wood that we have in Slovenia in abundance, because we know that 60 per cent of our area surrounds the forest and that, due to the possibility of multiple uses in ecological advantages, the ideal material for accelerated transition to the circular economy. At the same time, we warn unrelated Members that simply replacing plastic products for single use with, for example, paper or wood products will not be enough to achieve the desired objective, but we must also change our daily consumer habits. At the same time, progress and movement will also need to be made in the collection, transport, disposal and storage of waste plastic products, recycling and reuse of waste packaging and further processing, processing and incineration of waste packaging. In this direction we started thinking years ago when we banned free plastic carrier bags at stores, in order to prevent the overall increase in packaging production and to reduce plastic bags consumption, as statistics showed that in Slovenia we dump as many as 30 million bags each year. Finally, I would like to mention two more; firstly, I propose that when we adopt certain specific and radical changes for a variety of entrepreneurs, which may have a major impact on the production process in the company, in order to establish a longer transitional period for the implementation of the law. Thus, Slovenian entrepreneurs will also have more time to adapt production activities to new legislation. Secondly, I would point out that both acts, both the bill under consideration today and the government regulation banning the placing of plastic products for single use on the market, refer to the transposition of the provisions of the European Directive into the national legal order, which raises the question of the relationship between those acts. We therefore propose that, in future, the same content of the European directives be transposed into only one national act. Thus, either in law or in a regulation, but not in both, in order to prevent, on the one hand, duplication of content and, on the other hand, the transparency and clarity of the legal regime would be increased. Of course, I will support the law myself, as will all unrelated Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u66	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Of course, as soon as we heard about this bill's proposal in Levi, we immediately joined the signature and the support. As Mr Židan of the SD Group has already said before, it is obvious that these natural things or sustainable things actually link us, left and right, when we need to step together or also support the law when it comes to protecting nature or actually improving our living space. We are all simply aware that whenever we come or when it comes as a candidate, or we, Levi, or in this case, the Sab or all together in the opposition, of course, comes a very strong response also by those who have the greatest power in our society and who actually benefit the most from this consumption, and that is, of course, capital. Whenever it comes in the direction of a completely sustainable, ecological one, I will say, nature protection, as well as a variety of strategies, is always a rather boisterous response on the side of capital. I think it is right that capital also begins to become aware, in essence, of the need to approach these green strategies now and also to solve the problems that are happening to us daily, even with climate change. In this case, it should be noted that plastic itself, as such, is not only in the water, but it is also also in the earth, living beings and we are really slowly becoming some regret, but I hope that as little as possible, part of this plastic. In the future, there will indeed be a need for more such proposals in the National Assembly, and I think there will be a number of them, because they will also have to be in line with European directives. As it is said, I am also pleased that the Government has only come to know the fact that it supports this law and is also starting to lead this green policy itself, or at least to give some initial sign. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] There's still magic in the word. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to explain to my colleague Lepo that we have tabled an amendment to Article 5a of the Law, where this is the question of the double application of the rules. Thus, this matter is no longer present and has been resolved. However, as far as the time of entry into force is concerned, I would just like to say in essence that the directive should already be implemented on 1 July and this deadline is already over. In this sense, in order to ensure that the economy is ready, this has already expired, it should be prepared in accordance with the European Directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups of Members. Anybody want a word here? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. And I am also putting to the debate Article 5a and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION LAW ON PHARMACEUTICAL ACTIVITIES IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with first-signed mags. Baby Verbich. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Today we have a hearing, and tomorrow we will have a vote on the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, and we will have an answer to the following question: Do Members' groups of this National Assembly have so much political wisdom that they will take a decision to prevent foreigners from fully controlling the supply of medicines, various painkillers in the Republic of Slovenia, and this to public medical institutions, concessionaries and hospital pharmacies? Pharmacy is also part of the public health system and the termination of the operation of two important Slovenian own suppliers in Maribor and Ljubljana would mean that in the Republic of Slovenia we have only foreign drug suppliers and complete dependence on foreigners. This must not be the strategic interest of Slovenia, but must maintain at least minimal competition between suppliers, both foreign and domestic. It's a little different. Today and tomorrow we have a decision before us whether we agree or disagree with the amendment of just one article, which is Article 6, which defines the so-called vertical link between the public pharmacy institution and its own supplier of medicines and painkillers. This Article, together with the amendment, clearly provides that a public pharmacy institution may establish or maintain an existing supplier of its own and that the profit derived from the operation of its own supplier must remain with the public pharmacy institution for investments in the pharmacy premises and equipment, for the development of pharmaceutical personnel and for the introduction of new pharmacy services. In so far as the profits generated are even higher and exceed that intended consumption, they may be used within the founder, if that is the municipality, solely for the purpose of carrying out health activities. On the Slovenian drug supply market, we have practically four suppliers: Chemofarmation, Salus, Pharmadent and Grossista. The first two are in foreign property and property with hidden owners. The other two, Farmadent and Grossist, have been active Slovenian, their own suppliers for many years. Their market share is as follows: The applicant represents 16 per cent, an amount of €83 million, Grossist 13 per cent, representing €72 million. Due to their important market share, we are witnessing that certain stakeholders and part of the policy want their termination, which means that foreign suppliers can make up an additional 30 per cent of the supply market for medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia. This Article 6 with the amendment described above received 10 votes in favour and 8 against in the second reading of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health. This decision of the Committee on Health made it clear that the market and supply of medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia should not be left entirely to foreign suppliers who supply pharmacies, concessionaries and hospital pharmacies. They must also remain important domestic suppliers, such as the Maribor Farmadent and the Ljubljana Grossist. In particular, in 2019 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia included in the so-called strategic infrastructure, which, together with Lekarna Ljubljana, must provide medicines for the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana and its residents in emergency situations. For the continued operation of both own suppliers, at least minimal competition is ensured in the Republic of Slovenia in the supply market for medicinal products and various devices, resulting in lower prices for medicinal products and other products in pharmacies. As early as 2019, the Agency for the Protection of Competition as well as the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia had pointed out this fact. Both pointed out that in the Republic of Slovenia there is a need to have greater competition between drug suppliers in order to ensure lower prices and thus greater savings of public funds for medicinal products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Jani Möderndorfer. Just a moment. Just to get the counter ready. It's a preventive measure. [[Infection]] Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, please, the ambon is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The Health Committee is at its 16th session, 30th session. 9. 2021 As a mother's work, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members and Members with first-signed mags. Baby Verbich. Representatives of the Municipal Municipality of Maribor, the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Municipal Municipality of Murska Sobota, the Association of Municipal Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of Slovenia, the Public Agencies of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices, the Association of Private Pharmacies at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Confederation of Trade Unions Slovenia Slovenia, the Syndicate of Pharmaceuticals of Slovenia and the Union of Health and Social Protection of Slovenia and the retired professor of the Faculty of Law Prof. Dr. Gorazd Trpin. The debate pointed out that the proposal for a law and the text submitted made it clear that the aim of the applicant was a lobbyist law protecting the interests of the two municipalities. The bill is opposed by all professions and the Ministry of Health. “This is an extremely business interest and interest of the mayor’s lobby”, was said. However, the long-term adoption of such a bill means centralisation and monopolisation and the actual gradual closure of smaller pharmacies and concessionaires in the field of pharmacy, although the applicant maintains that this is not the case at all times. The proposal for a law substantially interferes with the current regulation of a pharmacy activity which is considered appropriate to the general public and puts capital and not users at the forefront of the novel. The members of the Committee also expressed concern that the adoption of such a proposal would encourage the relocation of pharmacies to urban centres, which would affect smaller local communities, and would also reduce the availability of medicines, regardless of whether the medicines are provided by a public pharmacy or a concessionary. When adopting legislation in the field of pharmaceuticals, it should also be borne in mind that pharmacies are not for profit but to contribute to public health. In the debate, some Members felt that the Pharmacy Chamber was solely in favour of its interests and did not want any changes in the field of pharmacy. Why should we abolish the grosses owned by the congregations, leaving the profits generated to the congregation or the public health institution, otherwise belonging to foreigners because they also enter our market? Following the discussion, the amendments tabled were adopted and the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 9 were adopted. However, the Committee has not adopted the amendments to Article 6, which is likely to be the basis of the debate at today's meeting. The Committee thus concluded its work and gave up its work to the plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Robert Brick, I'm sorry, mag. To France Vindisar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! At the beginning of this speech, let me publicly thank all pharmacies in the Republic of Slovenia, who at the time of the covida-19 epidemic assured residents and residents of Slovenia that we have been receiving medicines without interruptions in delivery. At the time of preparation of the ZLD-1, the legislator placed quality, safe and effective provision of medicines and thus public interest and not profit-making activities in the first place. The legal restrictions are thus intended to ensure the professional integrity of employees and the professionally independent management of pharmacy activities for the benefit of patients. The regulation of pharmacy activities also includes general restrictions on drug users as laid down in Article 26 of the ZLD-1 Act. With regard to the so-called verticals and the appropriateness of their application, the Constitutional Court also ruled that the current regime is in accordance with the Constitution. As has been shown during the legislative process, the investor's tendency is to amend in particular Article 26 of the current law governing the so-called vertical links. On 31 December 2021, a legal deadline shall expire within which operators of a pharmacy activity which did not comply with the conditions laid down in Article 26 of the ZLD-1 at the date of entry into force of the ZLD-1 shall harmonise their activity. Thus, pharmacists cannot establish, manage or supervise legal entities engaged in the industrial manufacture of medicinal products. In practice, it means that ownership of LL Grossista and Farmadent must be regulated in such a way that it is no longer the owner of the public pharmacy. We agree with the proposed amendment of SDS Members and NSI, which provides in the new Article 9, paragraph 5, that a pharmacy in a municipality where there is no pharmacy may be established, irrespective of the distance between the existing and the new pharmacy according to the number of inhabitants, provided that there is a primary health operator present in the municipality, as provided for in the fourth indent of the second paragraph of Article 8. This facilitates access to medicinal products and medical devices prescribed by the healthcare provider at the primary level. The Ministry of Health is aware that certain elements need to be changed after almost five years. In view of the above, a working group has already been appointed at the Ministry, which is preparing a proposal for amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Vindisar, I apologize for your mistake. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 24th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18 October 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? I see there's more interest, so we'll start the application process. Before I give my word to the first public debater, he gets the word "proposer mags." Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President of the National Assembly. Once again a very nice greeting to all present! In view of the fact that the debate is only about the amendments tabled, I will initially allow myself a few sentences relating to the amendment tabled, which are directly linked to the amendments tabled, although I repeat myself a little. As my proponents, I say in the introduction that we strongly oppose the amendment tabled. It is a little strange that the amendment tabled by the Government is also exactly the same as the SDS and Nova Slovenija groups, and somehow follows, if I may say so, the position of the Office at the Ministry of Health. Why am I stressing this? Above all, I must tell the public and the audience the following. As regards the fourth point of the amendment to Article 4, Article 6 and Article 9a, the Government adopted amendments to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities at the letter meeting. The proposed decision to adopt a government proposal to amend this Article 4 was voted on by all four members of the Government under the SMC quota. In this vote they are – it is connected and then I will not repeat here the same thing about the key article, that is 6. – members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the SMC quota were aware that in Slovenia they should not be solely and solely foreign suppliers, that the Republic of Slovenia is entirely dependent on foreigners and natural and legal persons who are ultimately hidden owners. Here we fully agree and support the decision of our ministers, because such amendments, which are being tabled, are harmful, namely for the strategic interests of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the need to have a free market in the Republic of Slovenia for suppliers of medicines and aids for the treatment and relief of pain and that competition is also created on the market. The existing system, by which we now have practically four suppliers, represents at least a minimum guarantee of some free competition, which also coincides with the views of the Competition Agency and also with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. So many words, because I think it is right to submit them in relation to the so-called area of the proposal, in this case, once again, I do not know whether it is the work of the Government or whether it is part of the coalition partners or whether it is somehow the position of senior officials. If I make a very harsh assessment or say words, I think that such proposals are mainly a push to privatise a well-functioning public health care system, and these are pharmacies. If I touch myself now specifically, as far as the amendment tabled is concerned. In this case, I will allow myself not to repeat myself. The proposal before us is the SDS and Nova Slovenija parliamentary groups. It is proposed in this text, which should not be read so that in municipalities where there is no pharmacy, they can be established by way of the rules in force in the Law on Pharmacy. Here I must admit that I appreciate that this proposal represents a mockery from us, that I will not say that even from the mayors of smaller municipalities. And I'll give you a concrete example. So much controversy and opposition by the pharmaceutical profession, the Pharmacy Chamber, as well as the Medical Chambers and all those who do not want any change in the supply of medicines, not only to improve the service of pharmacies to us citizens who are users of pharmacy services. The current activity at the Ministry of Health, which is crucial in the process of verifying the procedures for opening pharmacies, in the fact that according to the law for the primary network pharmacies are in charge of exclusive municipalities and not the Pharmacy Chamber and not the Ministry of Health – a number of years have happened that there is simply no hearing, and it has literally been impossible, if I may say so, for small municipalities, and especially for urban municipalities, to make the pharmacy network more dense. This is in the interest of all citizens, and at the final stage also of foreigners located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In order not only to be principled, on this occasion I also have to give a concrete example of how this was an inactive activity and why we proposed, with the 11 articles in March of this year, the amendment of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. The amendment that has been tabled is practically, as I have already mentioned, a kind jest, because we have proposed in the article only a change to delete the word “neighborly congregation”. This means that the municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, which are the founders of public pharmacies according to their needs and the free assessment of how many pharmacies there are and how much their citizens need throughout Slovenia, are prevented by the current legislation. Because they know local needs very well. Interestingly, this was opposed, including by the proposers of this amendment, and now they want to bring it in through a slightly different door. A specific case is a school case of how it should not take place in the Republic of Slovenia. The municipality of Bistrica ob Sotla belongs to one of the smallest municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia and in 2015 the mayor, together with his municipal council and the local expressed his wish to have a pharmacy in his place. It is perfectly clear here and it must be said immediately that a pharmacy activity is a profitable activity, perhaps a public pharmacy or concessionaires. Bistrica ob Sotla is obviously such a small place on the outskirts of the Republic of Slovenia that the mayor's invitation was not interesting for the choice or concessionaire or the public pharmacy institution to open the pharmacy. After his, let's say, municipal failures to obtain a pharmacy, it happened that after some arrangement the will came from Ljubljana's pharmacy so that 120 kilometers away from Ljubljana could provide the so-called pharmacy branch in this place. In our discussions on this subject so far, we have witnessed one, if I may say so, a sad reality. Opponents of the change, if we are now in the context of these concrete amendments, do not realize that larger pharmacies can not only afford profits in the business of pharmacies, but are also aware of social responsibility. This means opening pharmacies in places where they are aware that they will not be profitable, but there is a social responsibility and a need to provide certain services not only for the creation of money. And if I just add it to that part. Ljubljana's pharmacies finance – those who know little about life at the end of an individual – an institution or hospice institution, precisely because of their so-called social responsibility. Bistrica near Sotla is still without a pharmacy from 2015 to today, in 2021, despite the administrative dispute. In this administrative dispute, both Lekarna Ljubljana and the mayor of Bistrica received a favourable solution on Sotla. The commitment from the Administrative Decision is that the Ministry must do something but be absolutely silent. And now we are talking about that this amendment is urgently needed mainly to ensure that pharmacies are also provided in smaller places. You know, too much, if I may call it, the vague purpose of the proposalr, because the original purpose is probably something else entirely. Instead of allowing municipalities to truly negotiate or connect themselves with other municipalities that already have public pharmacies or concessionaires, we are going in the direction that that institution, in this case the Ministry of Health, will be once again, in the phase of usurping certain powers of the institution and the main decision maker, where the pharmacy network will be located in the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think citizens, citizens, we just don't need it. I therefore conclude in this section, as far as Article 4 is concerned, that this proposal is totally unacceptable by the applicant. It is a little surprising that our proposal for congregations to be more independent was negative, but now this is a little bit of a package for small congregations. Ladies and gentlemen, at least on the side of the Ministry of Health, let the municipalities be more independent and take care only of the so-called verification of the procedures themselves when opening pharmacies. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello! As an MEP from Maribor as well as a Maribor City Councillor, I object to the sale of the Farmadent. The solution not to do so is in this law. We have already heard interpretations that the Pharmacy Chamber also allows vertical connections to be possible or not harmful, but not to be resolved by this law. I must warn you that we only have two months left to settle this matter, and the only law that allows it and is open is this. That is why there is no dilemma and there is no doubt that we are here today and tomorrow by voting, to solve this problem or to really kneel down and leave all the profits that our people could otherwise get to some multinationals. In this respect, my debate will go on. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we have recognised the need to amend the Law on Pharmacy in this particular part concerning the question of the establishment of ownership and ownership of drug wholesalers by public pharmacies and local communities. We do not think that this is a problem of maintaining competition, but it is precisely an incentive to maintain competition between drug suppliers and health products offered by pharmacies. In this way, when we have more participants, more bidders, we will also achieve that public health expenditure is lower, not two with the backing of foreign capital, which can easily make an agreement and then the price of medicines or other articles is regulated in some agreement. We are thus also protecting the public health treasury. Experience has shown that public pharmacies, i.e. public pharmacies purchasing medicines in their wholesalers, have lower prices when offering medicines for free sale as well as medical devices sold in pharmacies. It seems most important to me to point this out – and here I really ask the attention of others who decide – that there is a profit generated by the sale of medicines and devices, in one case when vertical connections are no longer allowed, exclusively velegrosists, that is to say, at the end of multinationals or individuals whose address we do not even know. In another case, where vertical connections are still possible, this profit generated can only go to the founders, i.e. the local community, which then recovers this money and these funds either to health programmes or to health institutions in its area. So that's what we all get, people get. Here I think that the point at which it is clear that we do not need to hesitate in terms of whether we will leave this money to another, abroad, or whether we will channel it ourselves to us in a way that is most useful. Therefore, this vote on the amendment will show whether we as a legislator are really capable of regulating the situation by helping our people, or by letting others or losing them or by watching them explode or leave. I would also like to say that the Municipality of Maribor, the City Council of the Municipality of Maribor, voted unanimously at its meeting yesterday as a request to Members and Members of the National Assembly not to allow the prohibition of vertical links to create conditions that would force the sale and loss of the Pharmaceutical and to sell absolutely below the price. Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor Arsenovic also warns that the country is in danger of ending competition in the drug supply market. Of course, it is clear to everyone that there will be a duo of two strong bidders, and we well know how you can then regulate, if you want, the prices and everything else, the terms of delivery. So all of a sudden, we're trapped and we can't get out of it anymore. Zupan Arsenovich also sent a letter with this content to the President of the Government. I think that Members from the Prime Minister's party will probably think carefully about whether it is really necessary to harm the capital and the second largest city in the country or whether it is possible to listen to the demands and some truth that others who are opposed to this law are trying to distort or distort. I am sorry that against this law is also the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, a section of drug dealers, as is evident from the letter we all received from them. As you may recall, the meeting was attended by a representative of this section of the Chamber of Commerce, who was once President of the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia. It is therefore clear to us how strong this thirst is and how all the arguments are made in order to tame the whole situation in any way contrary to the law. But their argument is that the State Council recognised in the bill the attempt to dominate the interests of capital over the interest of protecting the health of the population and the threat to the operation of the entire public pharmacy network. The more we tried to say that this did not mean that the pharmacy network would be compromised, the more we remained unheard of, of course. However, I think it is important that, after all, Members and Members decide, not the Chamber or the Section of Drug Dealers. What's even more worrying is that under the letter there's a signed mag. It's a Hieng brand. The Lord is the director and shareholder of Salus, one of these two drug suppliers. According to data from the Erar application since 2003, from pharmacies in Slovenia, Salus has earned – and watch out – a billion, 1 billion 640 million euros, most of them from the public institution in Ljubljana, 313 million euros, and secondly, from UKC Ljubljana as a major user of medicines. It is strange for anyone who wishes to deepen himself that Mr Hieng, on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, will sign under a letter from the Members of the National Assembly, in which he invites us to vote against the law because of an attempt to dominate the interests of capital over the interest of protecting the health of the population. And who's the capital here? Are they employees in the Farmadent or the interests of the public community, namely the municipalities of Maribor, Mariborčanov, the interest of Ljubljana and Ljubljana? Who's the capital here? Because it is clear to me that Mr Hieng, as Director of Salusa, wants this duopol two private-owned wholesalers, Chemofarmation and Salusa, because he himself is the director and partly the owner of one of them. But just so that capital does not prevail over public interest, it is necessary to vote in favour of a law allowing, for example, the Farmer to remain in public ownership and the profits he earns to specifically in this case to the Mariborians. And when it comes to the Ljubljana velegrosist, he gives this money to the Ljubljanaers, not to watch him go to some financial treasure far away from us. Against the law is also the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia; at the meeting of the Committee on Health she warned that they were misleading the public. Even an apology is required because they suddenly felt offended in the debate we were conducting in their own way. However, since the 16 million funds have gone from public pharmacy institutions since 2003, the Pharmacy Chamber, if we are clear, has failed to make these two public procurement calls, one after the other has failed because the State Audit Commission, because of violations of the Public Procurement Act, has renegotiated the procurement of medicines. If you don't know, this is why in Slovenia medicines are more expensive than they should be, I mean prescription medicines and medicines without a prescription. Come in. When it comes to explaining to the Chamber of Medicine that it is possible to regulate this with another law — it is likely that there is a possibility, but there is no time. And here's the problem. We have already achieved once an extension of the provision that it can operate in vertical connections by the end of this year and will no longer be possible. That's why it's crucial that we resolve this now. That's what I'm talking about. However, I do not like the fact that there is also a latent threat in this letter — and it is not actually that latent — with a constitutional opinion that if this is done, it will immediately give rise to a constitutional opinion that wholesalers will be given a constitutional opinion. You know, I think it's okay, I can say it's rude, because they're going to want an apology anyway. Because, in some ways, there is an assumption that their power extends even beyond the administration of the Constitutional Court. I want it remembered here, no matter how it ends. I count on all my colleagues and colleagues to gain so much compassion for their own citizens and not to remember them as someone who has kidnapped potential money from them and handed it over to some foreigners. In this debate alone, I could not pass the parable that we now have two geese laying golden eggs on us, and on the basis of the fact that we are being persuaded by the representatives of the chamber or friends of the multinational tradesmen, instead of keeping your geese safe, feeding them and giving them everything to live on, these geese slaughtered and their geese slaughtered their liver as delicacies to the renegotiated foreigners. It seems to me extremely unfair, unpredictable, harmful to the whole society, one such gesture that really puts us on our knees even where we shouldn't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Before we give our word forward, I will read the amendment that should be under discussion. It reads as follows: ‘If there is no pharmacy in a particular municipality, a pharmacy may be established irrespective of the provisions of the first paragraph of this Article and the third paragraph of the preceding Article if the condition of the fourth indent of the second paragraph of the preceding Article is met’. I propose that, as he initially put forward the debate as a proposal for mags. Dušan Verbič, including the others who have reported you are talking about an amendment, but not a general debate on the bill. We graduated from one of the previous meetings, and now we're only talking about details. He asked the Mag for a word. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you again for your word, Vice President. I am pleased that you have recognised that I wanted to carry out the introductory debate as usual, solely on the amendment. However, in view of his distinguished colleague who has just defined, although he is focused on the amendment to Article 4, we simply cannot avoid the so-called direct or indirect link with those who in one way or another have a strong influence, in this case I will simply allow myself to speak publicly to the senior officials of the Ministry of Health. And then this spiral goes on, so we also have this amendment, which we are dealing with, by the SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups. Dear Vice President, for allowing my predecessor, I will also allow myself a few words of retreat. The decision of the State Audit Commission was also published about the fact that the supply of medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia is wrong and harmful to public expenditure. This literally not only annulled, but even fragmented the contract of the Slovenian Chamber of Pharmacy for the supply of medicines only to public pharmacy institutions amounting to EUR 1 billion. 1 billion. Do you know how many political discussions we had here about the amount of EUR 1 billion when there was Iranian money laundering? Not to talk about the meeting between the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Republic of Slovakia days ago, where they found that €1 billion is among the countries. So it's a lot of money. What needs to be highlighted here is that this is the second, exactly the same case of the Chamber of Pharmacy as it happened in 2019, as well as the annulment by the State Audit Commission. And just on the side of the Pharmacy Chamber, which we can say is organized according to the principle of the operation of certain interests, yesterday we received a letter from Members of the National Assembly, about which a somewhat respected colleague had already pointed out, which, we can say, is almost some form of a lighter threat or any kind of legislator. In doing so, he is literally misleading in his letter. However, I will not touch very much on this, but I cannot understand the amendments we have before us, to somehow follow, either directly or indirectly, their position, and to compare how, in the case of the so-called vertical link, both bilaterally and similarly, and to take the case from the German-speaking countries, in this case Germany or Austria. In doing so, no one stands out or speaks in any way about the fact that we have more or less natural persons or individuals of private law who interfere with the so-called supermarket or supply, in the final stages of the pharmacy, but we have a public pharmacy system. We have a public health system and part of the public health system are also public pharmacies. In turn, they are concessionaires. It's a completely different matter, but I'll probably talk more about it at Article 6. I must return to the so-called interests of the Pharmacy Chamber. When the State Audit Commission decided as it had decided, under its legal authority, what was the response of the Pharmacy Chamber to the repeal of 1 billion calls? They note that the State Audit Commission does not understand the way pharmacies operate and the requirements of the legislation. You know, they allow themselves exceptionally, if I may say so, a debasing attitude towards a state institution that is obliged to carry out certain processes and procedures. In this context, in particular by the Ministry of Health, the next question to which we have not received an answer so far is whether or not we will ever get it. The Pharmacy Chamber operates and operates according to some of the principles and competences enshrined in the Law on Pharmacy and the Statute of the Pharmacy Chamber. Not a word in the Act on Pharmacy or in the Statute that it is within its competence to allow itself to carry out a public contract of EUR 1 billion only for public pharmacies. These, we know, are 24 in the Republic of Slovenia. We know that concessionaires do not carry out these processes, and this is, let's say, a dark fox, how much money comes from the supply of medicines. For this reason, the key question is how the Ministry of Health, which thus follows in the whole process of amending the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, first of all 11 articles, and now only one article, and that is this sixth article by the proposer, is so opposed. The question is whether this means that in the Republic of Slovenia 1 billion euro of public procurement can be performed by anyone. If I'm a bit mean, I say this means that it is also allowed under the Ljubljana Tromostos – where we know that they are, I speak well-intentionedly, bastards and have many of them, including a bum, espa – that he also executes a public order of EUR 1 billion for the supply of medicines. That's not what anybody's interested in at the Ministry of Health. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u81	My colleague Verbic, please focus on the amendment tabled and do not hold a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u82	I'll finish. I practically did not touch on the general debate; I merely continued where a respected colleague before me somehow touched the institution of the Pharmacy Chamber, which, if I may say so, is lobbying for any intervention or non-admission of this Article 6 so that I do not speak the whole law. As far as the readings are concerned – and this has also been given by the State Secretary to the Health Committee – that we have prepared a lobbying law in the interest of the two municipalities. I will certainly listen to you at this point and I will not continue, but I will certainly devote more attention to the circumstances related to Article 6, because this is a complete ignorance of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. No one can tell us that this is a lobbying law when it comes to the content of the law for the interests of the congregations of public interest. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I don't think there's any need to read again what the amendment is. I ask you to focus on the content of the amendment tabled and not to hold a general debate. This was done, I read earlier, at the 24th meeting of the choir. You've all been talking and you've had your chance and you've said a lot of things and the amendment is talking about something else. We continue the debate. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Much has been said in this good hour on the subject of pharmacy, but let me say that I will support the amendment to Article 4, which speaks of exactly what we were talking about at the outset when we adopted this law. This is that accessibility to pharmacy services comes to every congregation. This is exactly what is happening with the amendment to Article 4. In summary, if there is no pharmacy in the municipality, the pharmacy may be established irrespective of the provisions of the first paragraph of this Article and the third paragraph of the preceding Article, provided that the condition of the fourth indent of the second paragraph of the preceding Article is met. It speaks of patients being facilitated access to medicines and medical devices prescribed by the healthcare provider at the primary level in a place where medical care is already available, but they do not yet have a pharmacy. Practically, then, a pharmacy can be established in any small place in each congregation. According to some of the information we received, there are currently only three municipalities in Slovenia that do not have their own pharmacy. So we're talking about a smaller number of congregations. Such a marriage or similar marriage has been filed some year, two years ago by colleague Möderndorfer, he's here with us. On this occasion, he will probably respond, but it was already clear that something needed to be done with what was adopted in 2017. At that time she was Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, who actually passed the Law on Pharmacy. That law was coordinated with the European Commission and imposed the regulation of the legal status of the grossists of Lekarna Ljubljana and, of course, the Farmadent. Later, because it didn't happen because it wasn't, I don't know, a will, because there was no interest, it was about not selling off these two grasses, it was fixed twice, and of course time was running out. Even this year's end of the year is over, and we are witnessing this law, which would actually sort of regulate the status of these two Grossists, but the warnings that my colleagues have already told me before me should be taken into account. If the law is adopted today or tomorrow, as envisaged, this poses a great risk to the rule of law, for pharmaceutical activity, because inequality will be restored. The fact is that the law, as originally proposed, has almost completely changed on the working body, the Health Committee. The only remaining article 6 remained, in fact with this article, also those who voted in favour of this article want to legislate the existing situation, namely that the public institution of Lekarna Ljubljana retains LL Grossista and the Municipality of Maribor retains the Farmadent. However, we are convinced in New Slovenia, and I also said on my mother's work body that there is a legitimate solution for existing wholesalers to be preserved, but this does not belong to the law governing pharmacy activity. Pharmacy is part of a health activity carried out as a public service. The pharmacy activity is part of a public activity and is carried out as a public service and the sale of drugs is an economic activity and should be regulated as such. The basic requirements for a legal person who carries out the sale of medicinal products in bulk shall be laid down in the Medicinal Products Act. We now want to put economic activity into the Pharmacy Act, although it has been said that pharmacy activity is not economical. No, it's not economic, but selling drugs that are fat, like wholesalers and wholesalers, is an economic activity. We know that we have so-called vertical connections in the EU, although allowed, but are not allowed by regulated systems. For example, Germany has a limit on how many pharmaceutical units a person can have. Where this is permitted, links are always allowed in both directions. And here we are running into this unconstitutionality or what they are predicting will go into constitutional judgment. So if the pharmacist can own a bigotry, they can own a pharmacy. This is where we run into this problem. Where rules apply to one another, the rules also apply to the other. I don't know how we're going to get past this with such a proposal. Once again, I have proposed that things could probably be settled as a holding company and we could keep it. You're saying it's not because it's a public service. Once again, the supply of medicines or the sale of medicinal products is an economic activity and there are probably different options. Of course, because of the different options, different forms, market conditions and sharing and sales of such shares, it is a completely different question, how can money then be pulled out of such a legal form as we could put it? Well, that's probably a little different then. As has been explained several times at the meeting of the Home Committee, the Health Committee, we certainly do not object to both wholesalers being kept. That's what I said. I do not object to both tradesmen being preserved. However, the legal form and ownership must be properly regulated. Also, the competition agency, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Pharmacy, maybe I've forgotten someone else, everyone is saying that this law, as it suggests, is the only way to solve these two velodrogerists' regulations. I don't believe that. I don't believe that. Given that we are proposing amendments in the coalition, this amendment to Article 4 certainly improves access to public services provided by the public pharmacies. However, it seems to me that it is of utmost importance for all citizens to have adequate access to the supply of medicines, regardless of who provides them. I think it's very important that we have a greater choice, lower prices. And it seems very important to me, everyone has warned about this, the expertise of employees, which we need to pay particular attention to in pharmacy activities. In the light of all this, support for the New Slovenia Members also depends on our amendments' support for the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the applicant, I would really like to remind the debaters to focus on the debate on Article 4. Articles 6 and 9a, which are more or less discussed in all these debates, are yet to come. I suggest you prepare or save time for the part where we continue with the following two articles. Really, please, because it's just to make a bat collage, from one to the next at one amendment, it makes no sense. The proposer of mags asked for the floor. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thanks again. I promise I will be very brief, but I must answer in two sentences to a respected colleague who, in her debate, follows what I have already said in the beginning. Apparently, in this topic, the guide is the reason why the proposer wants to settle the matter, following the Pharmacy Chamber. The first, which is misleading and is a fact, is ignorance of legal matter because it is again a speech, why both existing own suppliers are not organised in accordance with the holding. This has already been very clearly said on the committee and today, it is obvious that it is necessary to say this again. The supply of medicines cannot be systemised within the public holding company, since this legal form is intended only for operators of public economic services. I suggest you learn a little more about it. What is crucial and is also a red thread, whether this article or only Article 6 itself, is vertical. Once again, the fact is that Article 6 literally follows the European Directive. Any talk of unconstitutionality and illegality is totally wrong. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u87	Comrade Verbich, we're at Article 4. I'd ask you to stick to the subject. I've already warned you three times that you've gone. There's no point in you doing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u88	Just to finish the sentence. The fact is that since the public sector is the prey of the private sector and is therefore left to the disadvantages of the private sector, such an arrangement is necessary. This is also proposed by Article 6, and I will say more there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today we are talking about a pharmacy law because there is an initiative at the table of the National Assembly that we cannot tell it differently than a lobbyist law. In the original, this law contained provisions to deregulation of the spatial distribution of pharmacies. These are limited to so-called gravitational areas. This pharmacy can be established only if there are 6,000 inhabitants in a given area, or if the pharmacy can open a branch in an area that has 2,000 inhabitants for those areas of the country that are more remote and where the population is more dispersed. This has produced quite good results so far. The pharmacy network and medical care we have in this country is of quality. Why we can't handle drugs like a regular market edge, but I think it's clear to everyone. To this end, there are even gravity zones in the legislation. If this area is deregulation, we can hope for two. On the one hand, there will be a concentration of pharmacies in cities where more people are concentrated. The excessive number of pharmacies will mean competition, but not competition in the supply of medicines, they are already the same as they are, but only competitive pressure from the pharmacy to the pharmacy to sell as many medicinal products as possible or paramedical medicines. This means that pharmacies will be more committed to public interest because they will be under market pressure to create as much profit as possible. Even those who do not want to do so will have to do so because otherwise market competition will be under pressure, and people will be given drugs to a much greater extent than they would actually need, only because the businesses will convince them to do so. They will convince and persuade them to earn, or the back of, the same coin, that they will not fail under the pressure of competition. There's something else we can hope for in the countryside. In the event of deregulation, general medical care will be at risk. Since the settlement is much more dispersed, it means that the operating costs of an individual pharmacy are much higher, since it has less traffic than the pharmacy has in the narrow urban areas. Any further collision of potential competition in such a gravitational area would not only mean that such an individual pharmacy, municipality, concessionary or whatever is already exposed to a competitive struggle for survival, but also that this competitive fight can already be said in advance and we already know that it will not survive at all. And the pharmacies will be closing their doors. Two reasons why an amendment had been adopted in the previous reading, which had drawn up a grave lobbying operation in the gravitational areas of the pharmacy. These are also two reasons why amendments submitted to this Article should be rejected. Regardless of how the SDS and New Slovenia-type candidates justify this, the fact remains that it is basically the same idea and ideology, by which the law as a lobbyist law has already been incorporated into the National Assembly. So that the number of pharmacies should be increased, not in a regulated way, but in a free market way, by these amendments through the back door. The second solution contained in the original law can also be described as lobbyist, but we read it as a public interest in Levica is that, in the case of public legal persons, the vertical link between the pharmacy as a retailer and a wholesaler who may be connected. We have such a case in Ljubljana with Lekarna Ljubljana and LL Grossist, as well as Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u91	Comrade Kordish, paragraphs 6 and 9a will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u92	I conclude, chairman. If this solution is not adopted today, these two wholesalers will be placed in front of the privatisation wall. In Levica, of course, we strongly oppose this and predict support for this law if it completes the procedure, as it is currently designed, in order to protect the public large sums for the public supply of medicines.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The last one in this circle is Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to the guests from the Ministry! The members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija followed the objective and conclusions of the amendment to Article 4 of the Act on Pharmacy Activity 1C and of the conclusion that a serious appeal was made by the local community to at least ease the conditions for municipalities to be able to provide their citizens with better and faster medical services in their local communities. That's what this amendment's gonna fix. Thus, the amendment speaks of the fact that if there is no pharmacy in a particular congregation — but it is linked to the fact that a health care center or health care service already exists — making this condition a little easier for them to actually get to the pharmacy. This was happening, I remember, in Slovenska Bistrica there were problems, even in my district, the 9th Dornov constituency I think they finally reached the pharmacy after five or six years. If this had been in place before, of course, we would have gotten the pharmacy earlier. With the aim of ensuring professionality, accessibility and comprehensive pharmacy services in the SDS, we have also decided on the first reading of this proposal and we believe that the proposal offers some good solutions. The aim of the proposal was to make access to pharmacies and medicines easier to influence prices in some way, which was also something worth supporting. But the amendment to Article 4 was created as a compromise between the local community's proposal to apply for concessions for new pharmacies and the Ministry of Health's professional arguments. At the final stage, it is now also co-ordinated between the Novi Slovenija and SDS parliamentary groups and the Ministry of Health. We remain at the professional level and we want it to be achieved and that the primary objective of the pharmacy activity, which is the basic objective of the existing law, will be to ensure human health. I will support the amendment, with regard to support for this amendment, and also to delete Article 6 from it, then I will support or not the amendment of the law. In general, for most of the stakeholders who actually participated here, much debate has been given, a lot of suggestions have been made, it has been said to a large extent that if the law is supported, as proposed by the proposer, there will be no more pharmacy activity than it has been before, and its primary objective will be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I've got two more reports. Natasha the Sukich and then the Mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know if I understand your amendment right now. You are now essentially re-entering the gravitational regions with this amendment. If you're breaking the regulation of gravity zones, then we're where we were the last time. Then everything is turned upside down again, and then exactly what we talked about before will happen, the number of pharmacies in urban centres will be concentrated after unnecessary, which will not mean a higher quality, but only an unnecessary quantity, and as a result, the existence in smaller places will be endangered. In short, there will be some unnecessary shocks. Unless you convince me that there are three municipalities as exceptions and that this will not mean that in the end Slovenia will become a great Pharmacy Ljubljana, for example. Because the last time we found out what is the problem of the great Pharmacy of Ljubljana in Slovenia. That the Municipality of Ljubljana does not want to be co-founder of a pharmacy in smaller towns, which would mean that in those smaller towns, after some of the surpluses, money would be returned for public good in this place, but that money would return to the Municipality of Ljubljana in such a case, respected and respected. If you're doing with your amendment to allow what he's been trying to do, what we've been alerting him to, because we know who has the greatest expansionist aspirations, then you're doing very badly. I will now read you a 2017 study, the main findings of Velimir Bolet, which published a serious study on the efficiency and regulation of the pharmacy system in Slovenia. What did he find out? That our system is more effective than the media of European countries. That our system is strongly regulated – indeed, it is highly regulated – which is measured in four segments: market structure, operating conditions, acquisitions and vertical control, current operations. That regulated pharmaceutical systems are more efficient in business in the European Union and that the European Commission's hypothesis that regulated systems are less efficient does not. And so on. In short, it has come to the conclusion that empirical data show that the intensity of deregulation that you are currently seeking has no impact on drug expenditure. He found that Slovenia, together with Italy, is leaving after the regulation of the pharmacy system and that is why we also have one of the best. In short, the argument that we now have in our network, which is perfectly functioning, is suddenly too few pharmacies, is that we have very well-defined gravitational areas. Even in these three places that you mention, people probably have, I suppose, good access to some pharmacy. It's not this pharmacy now, I don't know where we can't get to it, because the rules are what the distance should be. In short, this argument that we now need more pharmacies is absolutely wrong. Again, empirical data clearly shows that at least the pharmacy is in the most developed countries, which are not only the most developed economically but also socially, for example, in Scandinavia. The most pharmacy is, look, interesting, in Greece and Bulgaria. But what is the reason why there is the most pharmacy in Greece and Bulgaria? That they have a poor or nonexistent health system on the periphery. And we have this well developed, respected and respected, no. And because health care is poor there, people in these pharmacies, who multiply like mushrooms in the rain, treat themselves well, heal themselves. As a result, more medicines are sold without a prescription, more dietary supplements. So they have more pharmacies, not more health. You could even say they're less healthy. So, respectable and respected, let us not scrutinize, or deregulation, in what has proved to be extremely effective, extremely good, for what is unnecessary for our public well-being and for our public health. This is completely pointless and these arguments really don't drink water, but they destroy something that's good, and they enable what we point to. Please reconsider. For the last time, I think we've been closer to each other, and now all of a sudden you're turning it upside down. I don't understand why this is happening now. So much for this amendment and later for the other one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Buddy Reich checked out. Anyone else want a debate on Article 4? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. Since the amendments by SDS and NSIs to Articles 6 and 9a are substantively linked, we will discuss the amendments to those Articles together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 6 and 9a and the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups of Members. I'll start the application procedure. Please sign up, the procedure is underway. Five applicants, first to get the word Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Let me begin by saying that I will not support the amendment to Article 6. For the main objective of this law or article, which remains in this law, is the release of the market in the field of the procurement of medicines and supplies offered by pharmacies to citizens, with the possibility that the public pharmacy institution itself or together with other institutions of its own suppliers. This releases competition on the Slovenian market regarding the supply of medicines, various pain-relieving supplements and other devices available in pharmacies. With the possibility that public pharmacies could establish their own suppliers, competition on the supply market for medicines and pain relief devices is created and this is a condition for reducing the price of services in pharmacies. This is exclusively for the benefit of citizens, i.e. users of pharmacy services. Indeed, we cannot allow the pharmacy services to be left entirely to foreigners. It is also a matter of public funding and the development of pharmacy activities. In this sense, we also insist on the so-called verticals. What does that actually mean that everyone will understand us? Simply stated, the municipalities of Maribor and Ljubljana, which have been established for many years, have two wholesalers, Maribor Farmadent and Ljubljana LL Grossista. If the law, as it went through the Health Committee, is not adopted, these two institutions will actually have to sell to the congregation. As a member of the Health Committee alone, I have participated in the committee and would like to point out some things that have also been exposed to the Committee itself. Some there have questioned that the novels, as they are prepared, will give exceptions to the verticals only to the public sectors, but will not allow the possibility of verticality to private sectors as well, cause discrimination and will be unconstitutional. Let me remind you that in the field of other health laws, we also see that there may be differences between public and private, so that I do not agree with this thesis, which was also repeated on the Committee, of course. Then some problems arise that the profession is mainly concerned with the autonomy of the pharmacist. The company Farmadent has been established since 1972. So until now, the pharmacists have not wondered whether they were autonomous or not? Is that what they're asking now? That's absurd. Next. As it is said, if this bill, such as it went to the committee, will not be adopted, Slovenia will remain only two wholesalers or two wholesalers who will supply medicines. We're gonna get a duopol. We know what it is when there are very few suppliers, which they agree on for prices. So all we have is Chemofarmation and Salus. For example, the market share of Pharmadent is now 16%, the Ljubljana Grossist 13%, that is almost 30%, someone wants to share. And who is it? Private-owned suppliers. If the law is not adopted, as it went through the Home Working Committee, we will allow it to be publicly destroyed and thereby strengthens in private. This is not my nor my position SMC. The position of SMC, therefore, is always that Slovenia as a country must not allow itself to be entirely dependent on foreign suppliers for the provision of medicines and pain-relief devices. The adoption of the novelty would maintain competition between domestic and foreign suppliers, as I said, lowering the price of services in pharmacies. At the same time, it is very important that the profits of its own suppliers, i.e. Pharmadenta and Grossista, remain in the public pharmacy office for its further development and for better education of employees in pharmacies. They can return, as we know, to the budget. Private profits will never go into the budget. For the last time, the representative of the Municipality of Maribor also told us that three major projects in the field of health are also working on this account, so I really don't know why there is so much opposition to this law, which now has almost one article. As I said, Farmadent has existed longer than I have lived, since 1972, Grossist has existed since 2009. I am also surprised that, I don't know, the pharmacy law at the time, 2016, was adopted in such a form to prohibit a company that has existed for so many years. Farmadent. It is a company with 100 % municipal property, 85 employees, so owners, as we said, are the municipality of Maribor 83% and others in smaller percentages. What else did the representative of the Municipality of Maribor say on the Health Committee? As soon as the pharmacy law entered into force in 2017, they tried to solve the problem. They transferred the ownership of the Farmer to the property of the Maribor City Hall, but at that time the Ministry of Health told them that they had not solved the problem and that they would not solve it, even if they transferred it to another legal entity, the gentleman who was here warned. Professor Trpin also made it clear that, for the last time, there were ideas about some holding companies that, of course, the supply of medicines could not be systematised within the public holding company, since this legal form of organisation was intended for economic service providers. So how? It can't be changed, reorganised, so it's a necessary sale, and it's in a very short time. At what price? Of course, it's significantly lower. That is why the vast majority of these hopes, at least all the employees – you heard about the Maribor Municipality, and yesterday a decision was taken on the city council – to support the law. I will, of course, support him, those amendments, like I said, no. Just one last thing I would like to point out is what Professor Trpin said the last time, because some people want to convince us in every way that the law is inconsistent with the European Directive. He says: "The question of verticals was regulated in accordance with European law, namely, on 28 February 2014, a European Directive No 24 was issued, which regulated the so-called 'and house' public procurement. Why did she even fix it? In order to prevent the public sector from being the spoils of the private sector and to be left to him with mercy and mercy. It provided that the public sector may buy within itself certain products and services if its organisation fulfils the specific conditions set out in the proposal for these amendments." I'm not gonna read everything. As a matter of fact, I'm public, I'm for competition. At least the economists have always taught us that competition has a significant impact on price cuts. So this amendment to delete this sixth, essential article, I will not support it, and I will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I can just keep going where my colleague ended up. I totally agree with everything she said. That's really strange, but now we're going out with your new amendment, an attempt at deregulation that worked well. The regulation worked well in the event of the protection of our two public-owned wholesalers. We're talking about public property. We're talking about public good. It has to be protected. This is what repays the surplus for the public interest, for the public good in the context of health services. We are not talking about some general economic activity, respected and respected, we are talking about health. Here with your amendment to literally open the door, so that these two of our public-owned wholesalers will privatize themselves to literally push them into the arms of these multinationals, is a disaster, to say the least. I don't know what interest you're following here. We should be public, should represent the interests of people and should therefore represent the public interest. What are you doing? I really don't get it. We well know that, as we say, public service should not be treated as an economic activity, because if this happens – we see what happens, we see in the case of banks, in the case of mail. Services are then auctioned, services on the periphery are closed, where it is no longer worth doing, and accessibility is made more difficult. So you'll ruin everything. You do things that are against what you said at the previous amendment. This status quo, as we have had all this time, is the only real solution because pharmacies and wholesalers are better off than a fully deregulated market. I don't know how many more ways to explain to you what deregulation of the pharmacy market means, how harmful this is going to be. That is why our city councillors in the Municipality of Maribor objected to the sale of the Farmadent – because it has to be kept in the public sphere rather than privatized and pushed to the market where we will get the duopol, as we have heard, which will mean, among other things, an increase in the price of medicines. An example of a heavily deregulated market, what you are now proposing, is, say, the United States of America. And what's the consequence? What is the result of this deregulation? That on average, 130 Americans die every day from overdose. Some 70% of the drugs they are overdosed with are medicines that they get there as little as we've talked about before. In short, let yourself be aware of the consequences this entails, and let us look at and be proud that our system applies to one of the best in Europe, that it is proven to be working. I don't know why it works that well, which works for the public good. I don't understand that. Instead of protecting our public tradesmen who work for the public good, you would privatize them, pushing them to be devoured by two great monopolies. And then we'll have a duopol, and then these two can do whatever they want. Irritating medication if they think it's right. You two are gonna have a cartel deal and we're gonna go. That's what's gonna happen. So I ask you to withdraw this ridiculous amendment. Of course I won't support him. If either of your two amendments goes through, I won't be able to uphold the law. If you don't, I'm going to uphold the law, so much so that we're clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, representatives of the ministry, colleagues, colleagues! Now for quite a while now, we have been talking on the committee for the last few hours about the Farmadent or changes in pharmacy activities. Let me begin by saying that the amendment, not the previous fourth or sixth or ninth proposed by the SDS and the NSI, will not be supported. Interestingly, the SDS and NSIs are proposing this. It will be even more interesting then to see what they will do in Desus and what Jelinčič's SNS will do and what a minority will do. It will be really interesting to see how they will vote here. Because tomorrow, when we vote, we will decide on two matters – either for the private or for the public. This is the whole philosophy, and no big words are needed anymore, because we've spent so many and so many hours here actually. About the ministry and the government that supported it, I don't want to lose words because it just confirms that it's completely but completely lost the compass. I don't really understand what this government is doing here anymore, but okay, it has nothing to do with it. What are we voting on tomorrow? For the first time, we will have only two private-owned wholesalers, Chemofarmation and Salus in the drug supply market. We will vote on this tomorrow. Secondly, whether we will allow capital to prevail over public interest. We will vote on this tomorrow. Thirdly, whether the country will be a hostage to the interests of two private parties in the field of supply of medicines. We will vote on this tomorrow, respected colleagues from SDS and NSI, Desus, SNS and the minority. Since we have stayed on the committee for the last time, we will not support private people taking over this drug market. The question is, why do the rest of you support this? Fourthly, we will also vote on who will manage the 800 million euro circus annually, as far as the drug supply market is concerned. We will vote on that. And we will vote on whether the other two wholesalers who are public-owned, i.e. Farmadent and LL Grossist, of these €800 million, will control 30% or will manage this €800 million private interest. We will also vote on this, distinguished representatives of the government or ministry, tomorrow. And last but not least, fifthly, on the correction of the mistakes made in 2016, which caused considerable property damage to the Municipality of Maribor and Farmadent when the law that we are now correcting was introduced. What was SMC thinking at the time that she put it in, and I'm not going to speculate, and I'm going to stop here. Why does the vertices go public? To protect public interest from capital, otherwise we will depend on private people in Slovenia. Therefore the vertices publicly-publicly must remain. Dear representatives of the government, SDS, NSI, Desusa, Jelinčič's SNS and the minority, therefore the message must remain public-public. Why not take a private-private vertical to make it clear to you? Because a pharmacy activity is a public health service because the supply of medicines is carried out in the public interest because the main objective of the private is profit. By the way, Chemofarmation 6.7 million profits in 2019, Salus 5.6 million profits in 2019. This is what you're talking about, and not one of your high-flying words about the public pharmacy network, and I don't know what else you're making up, what arguments you're looking for, and what arguments you're pulling from the five veins to obviously satisfy the interests of private capital. The vertices of public-public and pharmaceutical independence, the last time there were a lot of words. Madam Secretary of State, who last spoke up, Mrs Alenka Forte, she had a crazy lot to say. In particular, only the vertical link between public and public is allowed as an exception to the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. The vertical link between private and private remains in force to defend public interest against profit. The opinion that pharmaceutical independence is at risk if the company Farmadent remains in municipal ownership does not hold any serious judgment. If there is any doubt as to the effect on physicians in the choice of the prescribed medicine and on pharmacists in the choice of the given medicinal product, these may only be large pharmaceutical corporations and by no means be the municipality. And I've told you many times that you know who drives doctors to sponsored congresses. You won't believe it. I asked Minister Poklukar yesterday in my question. I asked him four questions: how many times was he as a doctor at these sponsored congresses, how many times was his State Secretary, Alenka Forte, at these sponsored congresses? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u103	Collegiate Lydia Divac Mirnik, please focus on the amendment. So far, you've had a good debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u104	Oh, now I haven't had a good discussion? Because I'm talking about being on a sponsor [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u105	Now you've gone through. That's what you were asking yesterday, that was a matter of a question, and now we're talking about the 6th and the 9th a related article. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u106	I'll tell you what Mr. Minister's response was. Nothing, zero, nette, nothing. That was the answer. So he said everything with his answer. The question is, who sponsored the convention on several occasions, whether Salus or Chemofarmation [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u107	Please focus on Articles 6 and 9a and the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u108	Okay. You're taking my time, thank you. Why is it better to have more drug wholesalers in Slovenia? The higher number of drug wholesalers also ensures competition on the drug market, which, of course, allows for a lower price for medicines, both in the case of prescription and without a prescription and better service. For the time being, thank God, there is competition in the supply market between four wholesalers, with two publicly owned. If the amended bill is not adopted, however, a duopol of two private-owned wholesalers will, of course, be established. This has already been said a hundred times, and it is likely that another hundred times will have to be repeated. What does the municipality of Maribor actually mean if it has to sell the Farmadent? As already said several times today, or at least Mojca said so, the 83% owner of the Farmadenta is the Municipality of Maribor, and other municipalities are owners. What's this all about? It is a matter of making payments each year to the budget of the Municipality of Maribor for so much and so much money, which is, of course, deliberately spent on health care institutions or rehabilitation of health homes, specifically in Maribor. It is therefore important that it remains public property. So it would be very wrong to sell it to a private person. Yesterday we also received a letter from the Mayor of Maribor, I think we have received it in our knowledge, which also discusses how important it is for wholesalers to be involved in critical infrastructure, and how important it is that critical infrastructure works effectively and smoothly in crisis situations. It is important to note that university clinical centres, hospitals, health homes, pharmacies, nursing homes without reliable medical care will not help us and will not work, which can, of course, also endanger human health. It is therefore proposed that public wholesalers with medicines be included in critical infrastructure, as their disruption or interruption would endanger the entire health sector. All of this is another additional argument why it is necessary for a wholesaler to operate in the Republic of Slovenia with medicines owned by the public. As the supply of medicines is, as it is said, carried out in the public interest, the public interest is always at the forefront of all other interests and that is, as far as I am concerned, the most important. The field of medicines is simply too important to make the country dependent on the supply of medicines solely and solely on two private-owned wholesalers. What they want to do in the SDS and NSI with these amendments, which the Government has, of course, also supported, is, in fact, unheard of. We've also heard about what's going on at the Pharmacy Chamber. In fact, the State Audit Commission has already annulled the general public procurement of medicines for the purposes of 23 Slovenian pharmacies that have published them for the second time. DCOM concluded that the Chamber violated the principle of transparency of public procurement and the principle of equal treatment of tenderers, since it did not set objective conditions for the selection of an economic operator to carry out an individual public contract. In addition, DCOM also found a violation of the principle of competition between tenderers and the principles of proportionality, as they measured the discount on the price of the medicinal product and the benefit on the volume of purchases designed in such a way that they did not identify the most affordable offers when used together. That's what this is about. Why is the Pharmacy Chamber so opposed to this bill? Because they want to continue fishing or fishing in mud. That's what this is about. It's about money, and it's all about science. And we just have to decide tomorrow whether we're public or private. I think that Mojca has already said that yesterday the City Council unanimously adopted 42 votes in favour of the proposal for a law, as adopted by a committee which allows the local community to own a legal person who carries out a heavy-duty operation with medicines and medical devices. My question here is, NSI and SDS, will you vote as your saints voted yesterday in the Maribor City Council? In fact, your saints have agreed to do the same. Or are you going to overrun what your saints in the Maribor City Hall think? Why is the privatisation of Farmadent supported? During his 50 years of development, the farmer created generations and generations of pharmacists and other employees working in the supply system of medicines in Maribor as well as in Northeastern Slovenia. If you do not know, in Maribor part of the infrastructure of the current UKC was also built with self-contribution. And the fact that they built it with self-contribution remembers a lot of Mariborians, because, of course, they gave their money and they did that on Saturdays – or how it was – so that the UKC was built in Maribor. In a similar way, a successful pharmacy system was built by giving up, from which Farmadent came. And now you want to destroy it. Why is that? Why is that?Oh, my God! Because of the interests of two privates, is that why you want to destroy it? Shame on you, so NSI, SDS and the Ministry, anyway! All I want to know is how they're gonna vote, like I said. You know, after all these years of denial and accumulation and the construction of a well-functioning system, someone decided somewhere that this vertical should be interrupted, and then, of course, instructed the public owner that the system should privatize or sell to the private. Why is that? Shame on you. And that's what I asked the minister yesterday. I sincerely hope that by tomorrow all those who don't know exactly what this law is talking about, or you know very well, follow private capital, think about what you're going to do. Either you destroy 100 jobs in Maribor, which has already suffered enormously in history, or you will not destroy it, that is the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Procedural Dušan Shiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u110	Dear President, dear colleague! If you are present tomorrow at the vote and do not commit obstruction or, as usual, when certain parties are able to talk here, how will they support any bill after the vote is held, but abstain, you will be able to hear and see how we will vote. So please, before you tell the public anything, ask us and we'll tell you. But not here in public in front of television asking how we're going to vote. By reminding her that Slovenian national parties should no longer mention colleagues and colleagues. Otherwise they'll always get procedural, which I don't want to answer for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I propose that we move the debate forward. The thing about debaters is how they set it up, but everyone has a conscience, including Lidija Divac Mirnik. It's Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. Many of the words have already been spoken in the National Assembly, both in the working body and in plenary sessions in the last 10 years, on the field of pharmaceutical activity, but not only in this law, but also in other laws. I admit that I have been following this area very systematically since 2011. It is practically not a year before any government, any government in power, has had problems with pharmacies and vertical connections since 2011. The answer to why this is happening is very clear, and it must be acknowledged very loudly — for the sake of money. Nothing else. It's not a profession, it's not really a legal order. Of course, I will try to make this clear in the debate on the vertical link itself, with numbers and facts, that there will be no blinding or later with colleagues and thinkers, if, I did not know, I was not aware. The fact is that we have heard quite a few claims today, unfortunately in Article 4, where this has nothing to do with, as also from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and all other actors who are intensely opposed to the existing and applicable vertical link, have explained that this is an absolute illegal situation, if it is not equality before the law. Of course, the argument holds nothing at all. I'll give you a case in the field of health care. Remember, the Constitutional Court ruled on the basis of a complaint made by the Medical Chamber when a complaint to the Health Act concerning the operation of so-called companies and the espionage of concessionaires who have concessions, what to do with profits, since the law clearly stated that these funds must be returned to health care, is said to be intended for the purpose they manage. The Constitutional Court has ruled here very clearly. It made a difference, for public institutions said they had to return money to health care, there were surpluses, and private concessionaires did not! Interesting, isn't it? But nobody remembers that when you have to talk about vertical connection and inequality. So much for all those who are preparing this, including the Ministry of Health, which regrettably in this law and in this vertical connection, like all previous governments, assists capital and as a result does not advocate what is meant to be, and this is a public interest. Why are we today discussing an illegal situation, but if a vertical link still exists and is in force all the time? Why did we have to move it twice in the National Assembly, including the votes of New Slovenia, which today is interesting, against? New Slovenia has made it very clear twice that it supports it because it is against stopping the Grosses. Today I am listening to a colleague discussing some of the impossible absurdities, an inequality that I have argued a little earlier, that of course she does not have one serious judgment. Mr Gantar, Minister of Health, proposed a drug law in 2013. Mrs Čoklov, then Secretary of State of State, was, of course, scrupulously, like all secretaries of state after 2013, defending how this vertical should be abolished. Moreover, she lied to the Health Committee about the possibility of a horizontal link. For those of you who don't know what that means. This means, in the case of Ljubljana, that Lekarna Ljubljana can no longer be the founder of LL Grossista, but it could be the Municipality of Ljubljana. Well, today we see in practice that this is not the case, because the Ministry of Health will in no way agree to any linkage between a wholesaler and a pharmacy. What is the reason, an argument which, of course, I will also challenge with the facts? That's the expertise. czech, the expertise of pharmacists will be compromised. This is one large mantra which is repeated at the Pharmacy Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce a little less, but this thesis was adopted by the Ministry of Health and is repeated as a broken record every time because it sounds good. Moreover, individuals come to their mother’s working body and then argue that the profession is at risk. Now, you tell me, given that there's been a vertical connection all along, has the profession been sentenced to failure all the time? How come she's not at risk now if she stays like this, and she's gonna be threatened? Give me the arguments on the table, please. I have to say, there's one thing that's most condescending when someone tells me that roughnecks affect the cost of drugs and pressure pharmacies to take what they have to take. That's about the way it is, you know, like if my mom says she's changing tires on a car, and she doesn't even know what kind of tire she has to buy, except she can replace it. The law is very clear and the medicines are very clearly regulated and you know who is setting the price of the medicine. Medicines have a very clear ceiling, a limit and you know who and what they serve in pharmacies. Grossist does not place prices, but sets them up and can be influenced by a pharmaceutical company. Not the pharmacists, but the doctors! And that's the key to what you need to know. That's why my colleague mentioned various seminars, congresses and so on. There have been hundreds and hundreds of articles, and these debates have taken place in one way or another, which I personally have nothing against if, of course, we do not go through one serious analysis of which medicines are prescribed. You know, it's very important what the doctor writes. There's a lot of medicine in high blood pressure, it's called blood pressure. We have a whole range of medicines, but you will see that your doctor prescribes plenty of medication to pay for. The ignorant old mom doesn't know that there's a generation that's exactly the same as this medicine. And if it is good will, of course, the public pharmacy, where there is a profession, will also offer a generic. Quite often on their own, they will explain that it is not necessary to pay three, four, five, six euros, depending on the medicine or what price it is placed where the health department pays it. And we know all that and they know it at the Ministry of Health and they know it at the Pharmacy. But we have one constant problem, in this Chamber of Pharmacy, those who are most connected to the capital of grossites, the wholesalers sound better, the wholesalers. It is no secret that wholesalers want to set up pharmacies, but hand to heart, these wholesalers are already in the so-called virtual co-ownership and management of private pharmacies with concessions. Who do you think provides the ideal conditions for equipping these pharmacies to be established?Oh, my God! Pharmacy Ljubljana, or Celje, or I don't know which others, certainly don't give these favourable conditions. It would be interesting if someone would look at these things and very precisely identify and see what is really going on back there. The next one, which is very important. Then why is the critter even interesting? Why on earth do a critter in Maribor have a critter in Ljubljana, but if all of this can be arranged by other critters? It is very clear and it is necessary to say out loud why. To have good care and not just to depend on Salus and Chemofarmation to have a better price. Now I'm going to explain why the price is better. Because you know very well that when I say so, I will say so to those who don't know things. [[…]] Prices set for the prescription medicine are, of course, predetermined. The health department recognises in the recipe a certain percentage for the conditions that the pharmacy can operate at all, because you know there are employed pharmacists, technicians, technical staff, not least maintenance of the premises and so on. And through this price is essentially this supplement that pharmacies can even work. However, since this percentage is so small because the health treasury is also pressing and does not allow this percentage to increase, today most pharmacies, not only public, but also all private ones, have become half-traded with health devices and do not know what kind of creams. Just so they can survive. Go ask private pharmacists, concessionaires, why they don't have five pharmacies. Because they cannot because they will not survive, even because of other conditions that I will not explain now, because they are not bound by the so-called Article 6 of this Law. For I am talking about storage, the mandatory two-month reserves they must have, and similar things that little pharmacists cannot afford. Why come to a private person today with a prescription for a biological medicine and tell us, come in one day, come in tomorrow? Because he doesn't have this medicine because he's gonna order it because he knows he's gonna get it back right away. Because he doesn't have any money. Why can public institutions afford this? Because they are large and concentrate in one pharmacy and they also have an organized network, access and is not within a day, but within half an hour this biological medicine can also be at that location. This is why the public network is so important and good. Besides, there's something else that some people need to know when to say and say, because we have 40 grossies, what you're saying is that we only have four. “We have 40 Grosses, look at the official list, it's published, it's very clear and it writes down who's all Grossist. From Sandoz to Chemofarmation, Salus, Bayer, Pharmadent, LL Grossist, Sanolabor, Astellas Pharma, Roche, Alkaloid,, Amgen, GeoPharma, Novartis, Medias International, Kefo, Pharmaswiss, and so on not to list them. [[Incomprehensible]] But if we're going to go a little bit further and see what these are for one Grossist, I asked the former Minister of Health in the previous term if he knows what's going to happen when this pharmacy act is passed. By the way, I didn't support him and I made it very clear why I wouldn't support him, and I warned him that what was going to happen now would happen. It took us four years to be where we shouldn't be. And she said to me, "Well, we have 40 grossites, because there will be competition." And I said, "What 40 grossies?" “Come on,” I said, “Minister, look straight, see what's going on in the market.” Of these 40 Grosses is 11 Grosses, which are actually dealing with the direct sale of products. And of those 11 grasses, we can count, we actually have one, two, three, four, five six gracists who are actually creating the so-called real drug traffic. Now we're going to look at the names and percentages and numbers what that actually means in money. If we go see Sanolabor. Sanolabor is only a name and shell purchased long ago by Salus and managed by 1 million 391 traffic for 2020. That's official information. Salus has 162 million 268 traffic. If we go to see — what's it called? – Chemofarmation, but we will see very soon that there is another Grossist called Vitafarm, d.o.o. Chemofarm is owned by the company Vitafarm, which creates €15 million, €267 million in traffic, and also the Chemofarmation, which creates 181 million 540 thousand, €181 million 540 thousand 466, accurate data. What does that mean as a percentage? As a percentage, some people today mentioned only two Grossists, but we need to look at the whole to understand what we are talking about and what damage we are doing in the Slovenian space. Chemofarmation creates 38.3% of traffic in the entire Slovenian space. Salus generates 31.6% of all traffic, totaling 69.9%, which means that they generate almost 70% of all traffic by these wholesalers today. LL Grossist 15.3% and Pharmadent 13%, which means total, if we add it up, 28.3%. All other traffic is exactly 1.8%, but it falls on other Grosses. Do we know what we're talking about here? Is it clear why it is necessary to maintain this vertical link? Because wholesalers like Salus and Chemofarmation want the remaining 28.3% of the turnover in their lease, and then they are total monopolies or dualists who will control the entire market. So what happens now? Now, the essence, the heart of the whole story. Why is aspirin more expensive in Celje than in Ljubljana? Tell me why. I'll explain. It is necessary to tell all customers in Slovenia why these differences exist. You're not gonna believe this because of the Grosses. Because of the Grosites in that small share. Now I'm going to explain where the problem is. The pharmacist and the LL Grossist give their pharmacy, which they buy from them, to an essential bonus that would otherwise remain a wholesaler. Why? Because it's a "and house" order. This is what the directive allows. Of course, the medicine can be cheaper on this account because there is no need for a margin to be collected from the pharmacy in the part where it is allowed. And the chemo, Salus, if you step into this part of the square, do you think they'll be nice to the pharmacy? Why? There's no need, because they're monopolies, but why would he give up those percentages, please?Oh, my God! You know what that means in the annual budget? In the annual budget, this means – for the whole of Slovenia – the cancellation of up to €50 million. Don't joke! Somebody's gonna put that in their pocket. Who's going to buy the Farmadent and the LL Grossista? Of course, it's only going to be bought by someone who has an interest in getting to the spaces because they're going to need infrastructure and people because you can't eat that 30% just like that. [[shows with gesture]] . It's not working. Last but not least, it's much easier to buy a company, all contracts stay, things run out, and the next day things go on. Just like they did with the other wholesalers I used to count that they own. The chemo is Salus, isn't it? I guarantee you that Salus, as in Slovenian hands, will then be sold for good money – good money because he will have such a market share in Slovenian space – to foreigners. And then, like the Styrians said, we cracked it, and it was thick. And that's what you call it. The market will fix everything. This is about the same as Janez Janša and Vrtovec, who explained, replace the electric supplier. That's what it looks like. Let's switch. Yeah, who are we gonna replace when everyone raises the price?Oh, my God! We won't be able to replace him. It's the same here, you know, with these drugs. Come on, please, one thing to understand. I started with capital, and I understand that the problem is money. I also understand the strong campaigns that are taking place. And I look at them, these articles. That's crazy. I am looking at these articles: „The pharmacy Ljubljana will no longer have to have trades«. Then we have here a second article: “The fate of pharmacies and the supply of medicines in the hands of Members”, “The pharmacy must remain human”. For God's sake, let me know whose is the Farmadent and LL Grossist, if they are owned by local communities or if they own a pharmacy. Whose pharmacies are at the primary level in the local community? Yes, from the congregation. Whose congregation is it, and who, on behalf of the citizens, manages the congregation? You know, sometimes I really don't understand whether the Ministry of Health is d. o. o. or working within the Government of Public Interest. That's something you really have to ask yourself in a fat way when we're looking at these numbers. In order for there to be no mistake, one more thing has to be said. Even today, Pharmacy Ljubljana buys 23% from Salus and Chemofarmation 18%. Because of the fact that, of course, ll Grossist won't get or the Farmadent won't be able to talk to the owners or suppliers during all this time. I'm gonna say again what I said years ago. By the way, the Farmadent is older, but Ljubljana had grosites before, only in the wrong hands. LL Grossist was established in 2009, starting in 2010. Before that, in Lekarna Ljubljana was led as a natural person who had, private individuals had their own grosists and sold as wholesalers of Pharmacy Ljubljana. We have, of course, absolutely, made it clear to them immediately that the administration should calm down, and we have terminated these contracts. Who bought those companies out of these three ladies had this in their hands? Who bought these companies, these little grossiers who sold the Pharmacy of Ljubljana? I'll tell you now, Salus and Chemofarmation. Interesting, again. Interesting. So sometimes I wonder, respected at the Ministry of Health. Mr. Windishar wouldn't be involved here because he's a respected doctor, he worked in a cell hospital, and I believe he didn't even deal with these things. But it would be interesting to know about some of the employees at the Ministry of Health where they used to work and who they worked for. It would be really nice to see who they work for. Here, too, the issue must be raised on the corruption commission for which these officials work. This is my thesis, because otherwise I can't explain myself, but I can't say. My thesis is that if all the governments, all the ministers so far, all the secretaries of state have pulled one and the same mantra, then the hell something's wrong here. And these left governments, right governments, liberal governments, all sing the same song when they come to the Ministry of Health! The profession comes and says, no, this is how it's going to be, see, this is the only thing that's possible, you know, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Secretary of State, like this, you know, because these are old things, we should have done this a long time ago. There really should be an overheating, at the Ministry of Health, to really come up with some slightly more independent profession, burdened. That's why in just one detail, I like the exchange of power in America, when they're dealt with by another 20,000 people, as much as they're employed by the ministries, and they're at peace. Because they're infected. With these facts no one will ever convince me again, so I am so stubborn and stubborn when I repeat the same mantra that it smells so bad. But unfortunately, it's just the money, not the public interest. Since he's not here, he's just gone. I'm just checking to see if there's anything else I missed. Yeah, lobbyist law. Today, it has also been mentioned many times that it is a lobbyist law and so on. No, it is not a lobbying law, but there is a huge lobbying in this adoption and debate of this law. I say publicly, I've met with all of them, with those I criticize, and with those I think must remain as it is. Let me tell you one thing. At the Chamber of Commerce, they are against this law, but if the law were to change so that other Grosses could also establish pharmacies, then they suddenly have nothing against this law overnight. Interesting, isn't it? How, won't the profession be compromised? Didn't you say the profession would be compromised? Here you can see this perfidity. It just doesn't work out. It is no longer called a professional decision, but it is called a profitable decision. Someone wants to cash the money, that's all. I'm a liberal, I don't mind if someone makes a fair living in this country. Therefore, unlike others, I do not use the words of the owners of the public interest, but use something else. Because for me a private owner can be completely honest, with honest intentions and honest work, not least justified. Why not? He was in school, he knows, he's doing good. Last but not least, is it a sin to make a profit? It's not. And the second is if you want to destroy the public interest just to rule the capital. Well, here I have terrible problems. I have always said, as I have spoken about health care, I also speak for pharmacy activities: I have nothing against private pharmacists, because they have completed the same college in the final stage as those working in the public sector, and not least they must respect legislation. But. Unfortunately, it's always the end of all this stuff, but... If we go to a public pharmacy, and I hope to say that, I will always meet at least two, three, four pharmacists if I come to a private store, usually I get one pharmacist and that's enough. Yes, formally, marriage is enough because it is a condition that at least one pharmacist is. It's just that in private, I never know if my pharmacist is serving me or if my tech is serving me. In a public pharmacy, this is clear as a white day, because many times no one who does not meet the conditions does not have to offer the medicine because he does not know how to advise because he is not qualified to do so. These are professional problems that should be monitored, controlled and so on. No, you prefer to work with a vertical. Money from the pharmacy. I already told you, in 2006 we came to Pharmacy Ljubljana, we found surpluses in the pharmacy, surpluses of 20 million. That hasn't been in a year. It hasn't been since one year, it's been years, but because the ladies have been accountingly hiding money in the form of reservations and what I know, what else the local community hasn't seen this money. I don't know, I won't speculate. These 20 million were used just like the law said. Medical homes have been replaced and in Ljubljana we have disposed of saloon roofs. In kindergartens and schools, from the point of view of children’s health, these funds went strictly on purpose right there. By saying that the mayors are collecting money for this – and this is all proved today, it is verifiable – that he will go, I don't know where, he doesn't hold. Finally, it is also for the rehabilitation of health homes that are happening in Ljubljana – I hope to say that because I know this area better – it came from this money. Those who are walking through new, renovated health homes today should know that it always comes from this money. And Salus Chemofarmation will never give one euro to rebuild the roof of a kindergarten. Why, if that's not necessary? Why would he give up his profits if he was legally acquired and even allowed by the Republic of Slovenia? Will we now allow them to expand from 70% to 92%? We're gonna make it possible for them. Is that what you're fighting for? Respectable coalition, let's face it. And let all Members and Members understand, in the end, if such a law were to be passed to remove the vertical link, do not excuse yourself that the Government has proposed to you. Because in the end, everyone will make it clear that this is the responsibility of the National Assembly and not the Government. And the government itself says many times, this has been accepted by the National Assembly. Let's at least once really do something in the public interest. At least once.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Dusan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President of the National Assembly. I must admit that with such important content when we talk about the strategic importance of providing medicines in the Republic of Slovenia, the hall is empty. At the same time, by the motioners of the amendments, except for the distinguished representative of the Ministry of Health. This also gives a real picture or an indication of what strategic interest is for the Republic of Slovenia. Neither will I talk about this work, that the Ministry of Health does not respect the decisions of the previous governments that have decided that Lekarna Ljubljana, together with its own supplier, is included in the so-called strategic infrastructure in 2019. Thus, in various politically-friendly debates and performances, a number of Members like to commend what this means for the country, and in this case it is simply denied. Also with the proposed work of the coalition, SDS and New Slovenia, the Government's conclusion that Lekarna Ljubljana is involved in the so-called strategic infrastructure is virtually denied. But I think there will also be an opportunity to discuss this on a number of other issues. Nevertheless, in a few words I will also touch the Pharmacy Chambers of Slovenia. Today, quite a few times by various debaters, a very critical word has been given about the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia, and I will repeat it myself, I understand that this is an interesting association, but unfortunately it shows that this interest association works primarily for its own interests, with the help of donors, if I may say so. Because all the clues are going this way, not in the interest, if I may say so, of membership. Public pharmacy institutions are an important member, not just concessionaires. What I have also mentioned in my opening remarks is a great disappointment because of the Ministry of Health officialship, that all this is going through easily, are the tendering for the supply of medicines in the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, in the final invitation to tender issued by the Pharmacy Chamber 10. 5. 2021 for the purposes of public pharmacies, it is without any legal basis on its competence to do so, as defined in the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities and is not defined in the statute of the pharmacy activity. I will point out again: how can a €1 billion tender be made so easily? Practically anyone who has five minutes of time without the necessary conditions of any kind, such or any other. We're meeting here with an official at the Ministry of Health, for which it's obviously all right. I can conclude and join the debaters by practically extending the deadline of the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia. I am also in the position that such an official office does not need a state or a department. What the State Audit Commission wrote down when it decided 10. Ten. 2021 in respect of [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I apologize, I applied as regards the quota in the debate, not as a proposalr. Now it has taken me some time to propose, but I have been reported for discussion, not as a proposalr.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u115	Mr Verbič, we will certainly give you the opportunity to continue to discuss this as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much. If I keep going. The State Audit Commission wrote: “The Order of the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia is the subject of a public order,” listen, “to 756 units. Broadcasting under an open procedure with a view to concluding a framework agreement with one economic operator.” If this is not a big enough alarm for the Ministry of Health responsible, then I do not know what else is needed to make something more fundamental in the field of the supply of medicines in the Republic of Slovenia. As regards the so-called SDS and New Slovenia proposal, Article 6. In my opening remarks, I have already said that we strongly oppose this as the proponents. I can only repeat further what perhaps my respected applicants have not fully said. You know, when the applicant writes that article 6 is deleted, which refers to a vertical, and is one of the key arguments, “because it can be unfair competition”, one wonders whether the person who prepares it or any part of it knows what is being said or written about. Once again, I will have to stress that it is obvious in this national assembly that it is necessary to mention the same matter many times so that something may be heard. How can someone base this on unfair competition if the Farmadent has existed since 1972 and has acted smoothly and Grossist since 2009 and has acted smoothly? Obviously, however, someone is seriously disturbed or specifically disturbed, and this is also an insult to the part of the policy that it is necessary for these two suppliers to simply shut down at the end of this year. And now we are talking about another story, which is of course very important in this article. Once again, I must point out that we are talking about amending the law by the proposer only at Article 6. Why is this article so important? In particular because it retains an important own supplier for the supply of medicinal products on the Slovenian market and does not leave this space entirely to existing foreign suppliers that they simply do not have competition. I won't use the word duopol. I myself firmly believe that this is extremely harmful for the Republic of Slovenia. This was pointed out in 2013 by the competition agency in the decision following the completion of the procedure against the supplier Chemofarmation. Since obviously some arguments in this national assembly or in the political debate do not depend at all or touch on those who represent in a slightly different direction, let us look at what this decision of the competition agency has found. I'll be very quick. The fact is that during the period 2007-2013 when this procedure took place, in the course of the sale of medicinal products for human use in a wholesale public pharmacy in the Republic of Slovenia, Chemofarmation and Salus negotiated or acted in a coordinated manner with regard to — and the three indents are given. Firstly, setting prices for medicinal products for human use in fat medicine. Here I immediately ask myself about everything when, in the spring time, it is said to date that all prices are regulated. How, then, could 70 % of the drug market, as we have found, of the suppliers who are so important, now want these 30% of their own suppliers, intervene in determining the price of medicines for use? Where's the drug agency? I'm done talking to the Ministry of Health. Next. The distribution of markets or public contracts for the supply of medicinal products for human use in a public pharmacy institution. Thus, the market was divided in proportion, as was shown by my predecessor as to what market share they had or had Chemofarmation and Salus. The last thing I'd say is a really worrying conclusion. The award of fixed tenders in procurement procedures for contracting public pharmacies. In the conclusion of the AVK, we are practically following the identical process and procedure of the public procurement of the Pharmacy Chamber of May of this year. I also mentioned and explained just before what was the conclusion of the State Audit Commission. Don't you think these are big enough alarms to just have to change something? However, there is absolutely no change in the fact that both medicines are made available in the Slovenian supply market. That maybe it'll be a little clearer and more specific. Chemo-pharmaceuticals are completely foreign. Whether the information is held or not, whether on their ownership side it changes from the so-called American multinational to European or German, is not important at all. It's important to create some kind of traffic. Their profits, in accordance with all applicable legislation, are logical to remain. As far as Salus is concerned, it is predominantly owned by persons who are hidden owners, which, according to the applicable securities law, means shares per contributor, is perfectly legal. Made profits go completely anywhere. And when we put ourselves here in the position that it should not happen that we have two own suppliers that provide a market of 30% in the Slovenian space and from which they are legally bound to remain profits to the public pharmacy – if there is such a great gain or surplus – it is possible to remain the founder. There is a complete misunderstanding on the part of the motioners that I will not then speak to the Ministry of Health. It is important to point out again: do we really not want to, or do some in the Republic of Slovenia want to maintain a public health system, which is also part of the public pharmacies? To suggest that paragraph 6 be deleted, which we as SMC's proponents strongly oppose, in the wrong direction, shows the following interestingness. Also by the Secretary of State, who was present on the Committee on Health and the Council of State, where we had a re-examination. I'm just going to read a magnetogram of the Health Committee, which is its clear argument on the reference to the decisions of the 2019 Constitutional Court. I believe it didn't grow on her kidney, but it was presented by the Department of Health. Perfectly misleading that the Constitutional Court does not allow the approach and solutions proposed by us as proponents in Article 6. And what did the respected woman declare? “In accordance with the law in force, according to the decision of the Constitutional Court, both Grossists should be excluded from the co-ownership of the municipality.” Whatever we understand, it is practical to defend and mislead both the public and the representatives of the legislative branch of government. For it is obvious that both Slovenian own suppliers need to be removed from the supply market. I will repeat what I have already mentioned in the introduction, it is obvious that the applicants of these amendments also need to be pressured to open up a well-managed system of public pharmacies for privatisation. Why do I let myself think like that? If we just read the argument of the proposer of this amendment, it also states: that the verticals that are allowed in countries even cites them, and I will not take this into account now, because this is mainly about the German-speaking countries, prohibits vertical connections and commands that the majority or exclusive owners of pharmacy should be pharmaceutical professionals. I don't know, obviously we all read differently or understand differently. But this is the way of starting to want to get into the public pharmacy system, into the so-called private sector. If I link this to a lot of things, let's say aggression and shame on the part of the Pharmacy Chamber, it's the same content, it's only slightly different. Now let's get to the point. Far from proposing the proposed Article 6 which the proposer wishes to delete, he proposes the following and justifies the same constitutional decision referred to by the proposer. The absolute prohibition of vertical linkage in the field of pharmacy activity was the subject of a constitutional judgment in 2019 in which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that such prohibition was not inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, this does not mean that the legislator should not be amended and regulated in the proposed manner in accordance with European law because of its inappropriateness. This change would again be part of the implementation of the general strategy for strengthening public health. I stress the strengthening of public health, as it allows the public health sector to generate its revenues in this area also in line with the restrictions, the orientations of European legislation. The following comment is needed in full proof that it is misleading on the part of the proponents, and this has already been said today. Vertical. The proposed Article 6 follows consistently the position of European law in relation to the European Directive 24, which regulated the so-called "and house" public procurement. Emphasis: Why did she even arrange it? In order to prevent the public sector from being the spoils of the private sector and to be left to him with mercy and mercy. Do we now understand in this context what is the position of the proposed amendment to delete this Article 6 or the intention of the proposer, in this case SMC, to maintain Article 6 under the assumption that a vertical link can be provided that the four conditions specified by the Directive are met? And we follow this consistently as the proponents of the law itself. Therefore, I must admit that I will be disappointed that we can talk so strongly about this subject as to why it is of such great interest in the part of the policy and ministry, together with the Chamber of Pharmacy, that it is given priority that the Republic of Slovenia must be fully subordinated to the interests of foreigners without any protection, including the strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I strongly reject and reject the amendment to Article 6 as well as Article 9a, because Article 9a literally verifies the possibility of the continuation of the activities of the Applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, chairman. With the law we have on the table in our current form, we have managed to achieve the following. First time. To allow a vertical link when we talk about a public velodrogerist and a public pharmacy and so also about public interest. Another time. That all the profits that are generated here are returned to the core activity. I think that this is a suitable measure to make this a smart measure, especially if we know that, following the current regulation of a public-owned grosist, one municipality in Ljubljana, another municipality in Maribor, privatisation is threatening. Of course, we are absolutely opposed to privatisation in Levica as socialists, so we also oppose an amendment that wants to bring the law back into the current situation, that is to say, in a situation where two public velodrogerists are at risk of privatisation. Otherwise, I would have taken it one step further. I'm not going to say that a municipal public organization is the best way to organize big medicine. I myself think that this area should be fully nationalised and organised as a non-profit public service at national level. We are not just talking about the big issue of health, but we are talking about the possible overconsumation of medicines that the pharmaceutical corporations would have had on Slovenian society, and it is actually already being implemented. We are also talking about the political influence that comes with this. See what we're talking about today's treatment of the pharmacy law that we discussed in the past. These are all the questions that the pharmacy lobby actually brought to the table. Why he could have brought them to the table is just the power that comes from the capitalist market and the profits that corporations create there. And no one authorized them to do that, no one elected them, but yet their hunters go straight to the top of politics. They reach out to bureaucrats in ministries, reach out to ministers themselves and reach out to the National Assembly. They are directly threatening democracy in this country. More profits when they have pharmaceutical corporations, longer are their hunters, better access to politics, less democracy has people in this country and consequently their health can be more and more threatened. We will therefore vote against this amendment in Levica because we want and stand firm in the position that wholesale drug supply is not a normal commercial activity, but is a public service, in the public interest must be implemented, under public auspices must take place and must take place in a non-profit manner, or if profits are to be generated, they must return to strengthen the basic activity. This is a solution that we will also support in the final vote in this law if, of course, those harmful amendments from the right-wing tribunal fall, as is normal and it would be right to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you very much. In fact, I am pleased that this law, which has raised so much emotion and also misunderstandings and different interpretations of content, has eventually come to what seemed to me to be more important or most important in the entire law, is who in this country can get part of this huge cake on the drug market. And not just medicine, but all the other supplements, the tools, everything else that people can buy in pharmacies. As we all know, when we are healthy, when we live a normal life, we have a thousand problems. When we're sick, and that's what a famous river says, we only have one more. At that time, we are willing to pay and do our utmost to maintain our health. Of course, it's not just about the sick, it's about all the people, including the healthy ones who buy supplements, vitamins, various benefits and so on. That's a lot of money. Finally, in this marriage, we came to the point where we want this money to go in the end. If the law is adopted as it is now, at least two velodrogerists, at least two organisations will eventually devote this money to local self-government, so to speak, and will not go to private people. If the coalition amendments are adopted, these two suppliers will have to shut down their business, sell businesses by the end of the year and the entire huge market, and this huge pharmaceutical cake will remain available to two private people. They have been mentioned many times today, one being an American multinational, and one also being a huge company, which is not known exactly who the owners are because they are hidden owners. I have nothing against private companies. We live in such a period and such a time that we all understand that private companies exist, that their main interest is profit, and this is all clear to me. However, I cannot understand that we can have Members in this National Assembly of any doubt that part, only part of that money would not go to these privates for yachts, as Levica would say, but would go to two municipalities which will be already under the existing law, I repeat, already after the existing law, that money should be spent on a particular matter, and this is for health activity. The law is already provided for in Article 38, paragraph 5, in order to allow the surplus of revenue over the expenditure of a public institution to be claimed to be a pharmacy or a velodrogerist, to be returned to the founder only at the request of the founder with the consent of the public institution, unless the solvency or liquidity of the public institution is threatened, it is said that if the public institution itself is not at risk, and that means can be used solely for the exercise of health activities, let us listen once again to the Ministry, which speaks of the existing law, as well as the amendment adopted in the previous reading. It is said that all the claims made by all individuals, to my great regret even by the Secretary of State, that this money is being lobbyized for asphalt and various projects, are not true. This prohibits the existing law and this will further reinforce the regulation in this law, as we have adopted Article 6 in the previous reading of the amendment, which has further reinforced this. I see, once again, the coalition is trying to delete this arrangement by amendment to Article 6, referring to the prohibition of vertical connections, the reference to the independence of pharmacists and so on. They're just excuses. Many countries in the European Union allow vertical connections. Some don't, others do. We in this country have to ask ourselves what we want. Do we really have so much money in health care that we can give up on just a few million people who come out of this activity? I think the answer is no. And if a vertical connection is allowed, why should we be more popes than popes? And another thing, the independence of pharmacists. “Yes, but if the pharmacists are employed by LL Grossist, this is a company owned by the Municipality of Ljubljana, and LL Grossist will influence them to offer exactly certain medicines to people.” Really? This is about as much as to say that no judge in any court in the Republic of Slovenia can be neutral and neutral in judging because they are all employed in the country. As far as I know, the last time I discussed this, pharmacists are committed to some of their ethics, have some education, have some of their own codes and standards, and have to offer to the patient what they think is best for him. In fact, as far as the medicine is concerned, we know that a pharmacist gives a person, perhaps a sick person in this case, what the doctor wrote, and has a very limited influence on this decision-making process. Those reasons don't convince me at all. I am convinced that vertical connections in such a case may exist, perhaps encouraging another congregation to choose to associate with other congregations, perhaps for its velodrogerist. I rarely agree with my predecessor, but perhaps we can even think in such matters in the direction that public health and what kind of medicines and what kind of price people receive are so important that the country has to have an impact on it. And some kind of influence, at least like I just said here, of course with this law it keeps. If I also see as a social liberal, what our party is the SAB, then there are two issues that are relevant to me here. By leaving vertical connections, by increasing competition or by reducing it? The answer is clear, we increase competition. We allow at least two more players in this large, rich field, two who allocate some of the funds to public funds. Thus, the answer in terms of competition is that we increase competition. Greater competition, better for people, lower the price of individual devices. As the proposaler put it, a package of masks in a pharmacy in Ljubljana, Ljubljana pharmacy €6 in the second pharmacy in Maribor €7 in a private pharmacy somewhere in Dolenjska 24 euros! These are key questions for me. The second question is exactly what I have already mentioned. Will people, because these vertical connections remain, on a better or worse basis, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? The answer is clear again, for the better. For the first time, because, as I mentioned at the previous point, they will have a greater offer, because competition will be better because they will also compete with each other. And secondly, because they will also be able to buy medicines or various supplements and so on, for example, owned by Galenian laboratories that will offer the same thing for a lower price. It's a lower price for the same thing, but that's what we want. Finally, if I mention the current call, EUR 4 billion for four years for the supply of medicines, I think it is quite clear why such pressure in this law, why it was a private interest, and I understand that, so much. But once again, what I have said before, I understand that I am a Member here to fight for the good of all people, for the public interest and for the public funds. Not that I'm fighting for it, but even if it's legitimate for two private companies to have more and they can buy more yachts than Levican would say. I hope the content of this law has now been well cleared. All the things that bothered and interpreted very differently before, went out, remained something that was good for people, and I think there should be no doubt that we should not have adopted such a law. As for the only other amendment besides the deletion of article 6 tabled by the coalition, it seems to me that it is a blurring that they want to reintroduce ambiguity into this law and we will reject it in the SAB and we will not support it. However, we will unanimously support the law in the form it was adopted in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-10-19-SDZ8-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 19. OCTOBER 2021 AT 14.19.)
