ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franc Trček from 2.30 p.m. to 17 p.m., only Bevk and Franc Rosec. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE SUPPLEMENTING LAW ON ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF TRAINING AND EDUCATION, EXTERMINED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, colleague Mojci Škrnjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues and the Slovenian public! We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which implements the Constitutional Court decision of 4. 12. 2014 in conjunction with the Constitutional Court decision of 12. 3. 2020. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 57: “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds.” The Basic School Act in Article 3 states: “The compulsory primary school education lasts nine years.” The Basic School Act also provides in Article 14: “The primary education programme includes a compulsory programme and an extended programme.” It follows from the above that we are always dealing with the term “primary education, which is compulsory”, which means that this is fully financed by public funds through the Constitution. The Constitutional Court followed this logic in its decision of 2014 and then partially amended the decision in 2020 and artificially divided primary school education into publicly funded compulsory work for pupils and into an optional part for them, which establishes a different relationship. This is a matter of professional concern, since some children are in urgent need of a visit to their optional work, for example, extended stay, as they may not be able to make progress on a regular basis without it. Prolonged stay serves children so that, with the help of a teacher, they can regain their relationship with the material, understand it better, and conquer it. If they do not have these conditions at home, for example, a quiet learning, order, and caring, and educated parents, especially present parents, the child’s advancement may be in serious danger. We want to give children equal starting opportunities not only because of them but also because of a society that counts more with each better educated individual. However, the Constitutional Court has decided both to protect the legal order and to monitor the child's needs and rights in a political environment, a law regulating the full financing of one part of primary education of children enrolled in primary school, whose founder is not a majority, local community, but a private community, and the law follows a constitutional decision. In Slovenia there are 448 primary schools set up by the local community and 6 primary schools set up by individuals, 5 schools by special educational principles, two Waldorf schools and two montessori schools, and a school by special principles of education for life and one Catholic primary school. The founders are in two cases the Catholic Church and in four cases the natural persons. Salaries in private schools must be in line with the ZOFVI as defined in public schools. The cost of investment maintenance shall be paid by the founder, either by the local community or by a private person, if he is the founder. An employee acquires funds for this from tuition, while a public school collects money from the taxpayer's fund for this. The salaries of employees, the material costs of the programme, the didactic resources for the part required for the child will, in accordance with the novel, be fully covered by public funds in private school and for the part which is optional for the child remains financed as before, i.e. 85 %. Private schools with special pedagogical principles and Catholic schools have thus far represented not only a constitutionally guaranteed right of choice but also some good practices that have been successfully translated into a public school programme, such as didactics mathematics, individualisation. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the law by ensuring the realization of the human right to free choice of education. However, this right must be not only declaratory but also enforceable, and therefore adequate funding must also be provided, as the 2001 Constitutional Court decision made clear. The additional funding of a 15 % mandatory programme for children will, in particular, reduce the financial burden for parents and the socially weaker environment, or for taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Secretary of State and, of course, colleagues and colleagues! At its 20th regular session, on 16 June 2021, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec. At its 105th regular meeting on 14 May 2021, the College of President adopted a decision to consider the draft law following a reduced procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made some comments to it. Her representative said that the bill followed the content of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and eliminated the finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution. It further commented on the amendments tabled below. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the proposer, a representative of the Ministry presented the opinion of the Government and said that the proposed amendment to Article 86 of the ZOFVI followed the decisions of the Constitutional Court accordingly and that the proposal supports the law. The debate followed, in which members and members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the separation between public and private education. Some felt that public education was the basis of an educational system that needed to be protected. They explained that private schools in Slovenia show the necessary quality of education, but the bill does not contain the necessary safeguards for them. They felt that they were not opposed to private schools which were rich in school space, but did not want the right to choose and the right to finance to be confused. There is a choice, but the country is not obliged to finance it when providing a complete network of public primary schools. Also, the freedom of parents to enroll a child in a private school does not give rise to the right to finance. Others considered that it was clear from the Constitutional Court's decision that 100 % of compulsory education should also be financed in private schools. In doing so, they agreed that, according to the legislation in force, it would be more appropriate to finance the whole of primary education, i.e. a compulsory and extended programme. They stressed that a private school was not financed, but a program that included teachers’ salaries, didactic resources, and so on. It's not about school, it's about kids, it's about growing up into creative and confident people. Without private school funding, there will be no pluralism and only the rich will have access to it, and the ideological struggle on the back of children is unacceptable and unworthy. They also submitted their opinions and views to the meeting, which welcomed the proposal of the law and considered that all the proposals and debates that benefit children's development were welcome. The Committee adopted the amendments of SDS, NSI and SMC to Articles 1 and 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, he voted on all the articles together and adopted them. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended proposal for a law forming part of the report has been prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government will be presented by Dr. Damir Orhovec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u6	President, thank you so much for your word. Good morning, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! As the applicants state, the purpose of the draft law is to implement the 2014 decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in conjunction with the decision issued by the Constitutional Court in 2020. In order to implement a decision of the Constitutional Court which has not been properly regulated since 2014, the applicants propose to supplement Article 86 of the ZOFVI, namely the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, by a new third paragraph, by providing private schools with the same funding as the State or the local community provides for public schools for the implementation of the compulsory public education programme, and by maintaining 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the extended programme in public primary schools. All other provisions of this Act remain unchanged as they are not covered by the Constitutional Court decision. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposed amendment to Article 86 of the ZOFVI follows adequately the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as outlined in the main explanation of the bill. This is why the Government supports the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! With a view to implementing the 2014 Constitutional Court decision and in conjunction with the 2020 Constitutional Court decision on the financing of a public private school programme, we are today deciding that the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education will be supplemented by a way in which private primary schools will be provided with the same resources as the State and the local community provide for the implementation of the compulsory public school programme. At the same time, up to 85% of the funding provided by the State and the local community for the implementation of the extended public primary school programme is maintained. However, 85 per cent of the funding provided by the State and the local community for the implementation of the public school programme continues to be provided to private schools implementing education programmes in high school, secondary and vocational education or basic music education. Indeed, the decision of the Constitutional Court does not apply to these educational programmes. In the previous term, several attempts were made to implement the 2014 Constitutional Court decision, but none of these attempts were finally possible on the proposal of the Government. The biggest debate was on the extent to which the extended programme was financed from public funds and the conditions for the establishment of new schools. However, if we focus on the substance of the 2014 Constitutional Court decision, which is also the focus of the proposed amendments to the ZOFVI, we can highlight the following. The basis of the argument is based on the recognised right of children to free primary education, which is also defined in Article 57 of the Constitution, regardless of whether they are educated in public or private primary schools. The Constitution guarantees pupils the right to free compulsory primary education. Since the Constitution has linked this constitutional right to the pupils with their constitutional duty, public funding must be given to that primary school education which is compulsory for pupils. The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution thus grants pupils the right to attend the compulsory primary education public education programme free of charge, regardless of whether it is carried out by a public or a private school. Public funding should therefore be required to provide a minimum of basic education, which is uniformly determined by content. With regard to the matter under consideration, the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 2020, decided that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI in the work relating to public financing of supplementary education, morning care and extended stay in a private primary school with the public-executive programme obtained is not inconsistent with the Constitution. The obligation set out in Article 57(2) of the Constitution must be such that students of private primary schools with a public programme acquired are given equal educational standards as are applicable to students in public primary school. In determining the extent of the responsibilities of private primary school pupils with the acquired public programme, it is therefore necessary to draw on the extent of the responsibilities of the pupils of public primary schools, i.e. the content of the compulsory part of the public primary school programme. It follows from the Basic Schools Act that the primary education programme includes a compulsory and extended programme, that an extended primary school programme includes students on a voluntary basis, an extended part of the public primary school programme is not a compulsory part of primary school education and that it is only a compulsory part of the public primary school programme that is required to attend primary school. The constitutional obligation of primary school education in private school with a public programme thus relates only to the content of the programme which corresponds to the content of the compulsory part of the public primary school programme. We will therefore support the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the Parliamentary Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The issue of financing private primary education, which we have been dealing with for the past five years, is a true epic saga. The Saga, which extends to the various mandates of the legislative body, is divided into initiatives, constitutional decisions and novelties of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, and nevertheless it is clear that private school programmes are already being financed by 85%. This is what we are all dealing with, politicians, lawyers, judges, teachers, parents and, as it turns out, we are all well aware that this is not just a matter of additional financial resources, it is not so big, but of the question of the principled direction of our country in this area in the future. The fact is that Slovenia also has one of the best school systems in the world because we were able to protect public education. Quality public education is a difficult right to choose, which must not be waived under any circumstances. This value has always received broad public support from us, because we have also understood education, which offers equal opportunities for learning to all, as an expression of social justice and solidarity. We have also allowed parents within the existing system the possibility of education outside the network of public schools, with a previously existing and partially co-financed concept of private education. But, as it is said, 85% of the funding of the compulsory private school programme for private education advocates is not enough. For some of us, it means a private thing because 100% is financed by social resources. In the SAB we advocate a strong and high-quality public education that follows modern pedagogical reception and the rapid development of society. We are very opposed to measures that could weaken public education in the long term, put it in a worse position and lead to two types of schools, those for the rich and the quiet for the poor, as we can see, for example, in the US or Great Britain. Of course, we are aware that not everything is ideal in the field of education and education and that improvements to the existing system are possible and that there is a lot of room for manoeuvre for them. The system must ensure that public schools are of such quality that all parents feel that they are doing their best for their child by entering a public school. Knowledge must become the fundamental value of our society by developing the working and learning habits of children and students, individual responsibility and strengthening awareness of the importance of knowledge and literacy. This can only be achieved through well-trained teaching staff and under appropriate conditions for the functioning of educational institutions. In the SAB party, we believe that basic education in private schools can be co-financed to a limited extent, but under conditions and in the amount prescribed by the law. This means that the State must finance public education, public primary schools in this case, this is its obligation and private schools can only be financed if it so wishes. For we must not make mistakes and fall into a fundamental relationship between the public and the private. The equalisation of private and public education funding inevitably leads to a gradual deterioration of the latter and thus threatens the values mentioned above. Similarly, the Constitutional Court, which, by the last decision, correctly found that several experimental implementations of the original decision had proved that the scope of the finding of non-constitutionality was not clear. I have repeatedly reminded myself of this at the meetings of the Committee and of the National Assembly. It was not clear whether the decision relates to the entire public programme or only to the compulsory programme. Thus, the new decision concluded that it is the responsibility of the State to finance only the compulsory part of the programme, but not the supplementary teaching, morning care and extended stay. This is a new finding by the Constitutional Court clarifying the previous decision, and this is a decision to which no reference or reference is made by the proponents and private school advocates. Interesting. Nevertheless, I myself understand the Constitution as did former Constitutional Judge Korpič Horvat, when it is the duty of parents to ensure that their children attend a public primary school programme. This obligation of parents thus corresponds to the duty of the State to organise primary education in a way that will enable parents to fulfil this obligation. It follows that parents of pupils who attend private schools without a licence could claim that their children have a reduced right to compulsory primary education only if they proved that they could not enter or include their children in one of the primary schools in the primary school network. In view of everything, we will continue to support public education in the SAB party and will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Constitutional decision on the financing of private primary schools has been taking place in Slovenia for more than two decades. Legally speaking, the communication of constitutional decisions is clear. The State must finance the implementation of the compulsory programme by private schools, as provided for by the Basic School Act. Since primary school is compulsory for all, this obligation and minimum education must be the same for students, regardless of whether they benefit from public school or attend private educational institutions, i.e. the same as the content and level of knowledge given and acquired. The financial burden in this part of the programme, i.e. the mandatory programme, must not be borne by any child or by any parent. This is the primary resource of a just society that creates a level playing field and opportunities for everyone, but it is not necessary for the State to finance something else. With regard to public funding arrangements for non-compulsory part of primary education, this is an extended programme, which includes complementary and additional education, morning protection and extended stay, the Constitutional Court says it is not in conformity with the Constitution. Here, the scope of public funding is left to the legislator to decide, unless the non-financing of this part of the programme in private schools with the resulting public programme would jeopardise their actual existence. During the last two terms of office, we are tirelessly overplaying what is the message of the Constitutional Court and how to implement all decisions of the Constitutional Court, including the last one in 2020. As we weigh the content we have before us today in the basic form of the bill and as proposed amendments, we can come from what we have identified and advocated so far in the Desus Group. We are committed to maintaining and protecting public education. We are convinced that only through public forms of citizen service can the state guarantee justice to all and under the same conditions and, ultimately, the same quality. We believe that the social and solidarity state, which the Republic of Slovenia has always been, must first take care of the provision of public goods as consistently and as qualitatively as possible by the allocation of budgetary resources. Of course, in the Desus Group we are not against the establishment of private schools, it is right that parents have the option of entering a public or private school space. This means that they can freely decide how and where to raise and educate their children. We agree that private schools with their teaching approaches, different educational practices and, last but not least, the substantive difference given by certain worldview views enrich the school space. However, through compulsory school content, they must also provide the same and equivalent educational standard as prescribed by the country in public schools. And when we talk about choice, it is not possible to ignore the fact that, for example, in the White Country parents cannot choose whether to enroll a child in a private or public school, because there are no private schools there, of course. The current state of number of public and private schools is as follows: 454 are public primary schools, including branch schools, and only 6 are private schools. The number of students in public schools is 106 times higher than those enrolled in private schools and thus the public school network does not seem to be compromised. According to the calculation of the Ministry of Education, an additional half million per year would be sufficient for private schools to be equalized to the public in receiving funding from compulsory programmes, which is a negligible additional burden on the state budget at this time. However, we must not overlook that the supply of new trends in school models would not blur economic appetites from the spread of privacy in such an important sphere as education, which, of course, we believe must remain worldwide and religiously impartial. Education and health are fundamental to the welfare of each individual. At these points it is not possible to allow the polarisation of citizens and citizens too strong, their own economic capacity to provide these goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u14	Good morning! Today at our tables is the first attempt to implement a constitutional decision on the financing of private school programmes. The Constitutional Court issued the decision in 2013 and set a one-year deadline for the correction of the statutory educational law, which we almost lovingly call Zofhi. Ever since then – seven years of this – we have witnessed intense political dynamics and a number of political controversies when, during every failed attempt to implement the decision, it is only possible to perceive the untruthful purposes and the absence of awareness of the plurality of our society. From the point of view of the legislator's obligation, we understand the purpose of the rehearsing and do not oppose it, but we need to pour clean water and clearly show why political concerns have arisen that we have not resolved this issue in time. Remember the blockades that took place during the previous government when then Minister of Education Maja Makovec Brenčič first offered a solution in the form of a 100% funding model for the mandatory part of the programme and 85% for the extended part of the programme. We have experienced defeat both by the then coalition and by the opposition. The first objected to any equivalence between the financing of the already compulsory part of the programme to which the Constitutional Court had clearly defined itself in the first decision. They only agreed to change the Constitution. Others, the then opposition opened by the SDS and the NSI, have only agreed to the full alignment of both the mandatory and the expanded part of the programme. So a complete political blockade that prevented the rational and constitutional resolution of this Gordy knot. In 2018, the situation turned around, but the re-implementation attempt failed again because it failed to select a critical majority of 46 votes voted after the State Council vote. In 2021, the ruling SDS party finally understands that the financing model according to formula 100 : 85 is good and adequately responds to a request that has been burdened by the legislator since 2014. The reason for this is, as they state, the second decision of the Court of Constitution of 2020, which is in fact just a convenient excuse for their political pragmatism. These are irrefutable facts to be submitted to all citizens and citizens accompanying the meeting today, especially to parents and their children attending private schools and to all other representatives of private schools. Why? As this makes it very clear the reality and sincerity of the larger part of the policy after the implementation of the constitutional decision. Unfortunately, we have no choice but to set up a mirror for our colleagues and colleagues to see how wrong it is when you can't or won't look over your own plans in politics. Since 2014, we have made a sincere effort to implement the constitutional decision, even when we have been connected, but in seven years we have been on our own without compromise political agendas. At this meeting of the Education Committee, too, we have tried, with the amendment tabled, to set criteria for private schools for their eligibility to finance. In fact, who could rationally object to the provision that private schools should be included in the notice that they must ensure equal entry conditions regardless of nationality, race, sex, sexual orientation, religious belief and that they must ensure the critical mass of full-time teachers employed and not the reprimands they then force? Who can object to a private school and a school of children from the Middle East or a child from a family of same - sex parents? Who can argue that it is wrong for parents to still have to pay school fees for the part of the programme for which they will receive 100% of the funding from the country? Again, those who limit his view and the power of objective judgment. While we are capable of this leap, we find it difficult to agree to a law from which the unbiased purpose of the majority part of the current political body lies. This will be especially true if our complement today does not receive adequate support. With the safeguards that we are proposing, everyone remains safe: public education, private schools, the right of children to the compulsory part of the programme. It must only be acknowledged that compromise and mutual acceptance of the basic principles of art are possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u16	Good day to all in the hall! The bill's proposal to regulate the financing of private primary schools has been tabled several times in the parliamentary procedure, but it has not received sufficient support, we are all aware of this. Last year, the Constitutional Court concluded that the State must fully finance the compulsory part of the private primary school programme, but it is not necessary to finance the extended programme in private primary schools with the public-run programme. In the Slovenian National Party we advocate laity education in the parallel private school sector. All of you are aware that in Slovenia we have only six private schools or that the talk is only about 1 per cent. Slovenia does not reach a tenth of the European average of private primary schools, so we can be sure that there is no new school, such as for Muslims. The financial implications are estimated at €350,000 per school year, which is large for some, but not for others, given where we spend our budget money without any connection. It is true, though, that private schools need to be known in their own way because they do not have the means to invest, investment and equipment. Is it in your interest that our country would rather fund more Roma, Bosnians or Shiptars than Slovenian children in private schools, who are already blackmailing translators? We have doubts despite the view of all those whose constitutional rights have been violated for a long time. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that not everything is public and not all private good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, all welcome! We have the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states in Article 57: “Education is free, primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds.” We have two decisions of the Constitutional Court. The decision referred to in paragraph 4 shall be adopted by the European Parliament and the Council. 12. 2013 states: “The first sentence of Article 56, second paragraph, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is in the work relating to public programme primary education, in breach of the Constitution.” We have a decision from the 12th Constitutional Court. 3. 2020, which states: “The first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to public financing of supplementary education, morning care and extended stay in private primary school with the public programme obtained, is not inconsistent with the Constitution.” And before us is the law that we are considering today. In short, we are implementing two decisions of the Constitutional Court which speak of public programmes in primary schools, which are, as is said, mandatory under the Constitution. While the left side of Parliament has much to say about the rule of law and respect for the Constitution, on the other hand, constitutional regulation and the rule of law have a lot of problems when it is necessary to press and speak in the National Assembly. The SDS wants to regulate the decisions of the Constitutional Court for the sixth time with the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. And yes, we thought that decision from 4. 12. 2013 refers to 100% of the funding of both mandatory and extended programmes. Part of us are saddened that the Constitutional Court has partly changed its mind in 2020, but, as it is said, we respect the Constitutional Court's decisions in the SDS. That's what we wrote in the law. That our law is in the sense of regulating the decisions of the Constitutional Court, is also confirmed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which states: “The Legislative and Legal Service considers that the proposal follows the content of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and eliminates the finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution.” In short, today there is no public debate on public and private schools, because it is only a matter of respecting or not respecting the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Yes, in the SDS Group we are saddened that in 2020 there was a partial modification of the Constitutional Court's decision because we believe that supplementary education, morning protection and extended stay should also be resolved in private schools as in public schools. Last but not least, we have 448 primary schools in Slovenia, of which 6 are private, less than 1%. No entertainment is a private school, it is a practice of choice and it brings good practice, which has been successful in many ways also in public school programmes. In short, we will support the law in the SDS because, for the first time, it guarantees the realization of the human right to free choice of education, and for the second time, it complies with two decisions of the Constitutional Court. In short, no debate on public and private is just a debate on whether or not to respect the rule of law. We take the Constitutional Court's decisions seriously in the SDS, which is why we are also proposing this law. We believe that after a five-year saga, with 6 laws, after interpretation, after the constitutional indictment finally came the time and date to fulfill what the Constitutional Court intended us to do to respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We defend and protect public education in the Marjana Sharca Group. Why? Because we also advocate a social note in the field of education, and we understand public education as a good thing. Because in our view, education is a public benefit or a social benefit. And Slovenian public education, there is no doubt about it, this well-being creates a quality education, which the country with a diversified network of public schools has made available to all, without distinction, even to the socially weak. Let me say clearly in advance to avoid misunderstandings, we do not oppose private schools. We know they're making room. We are – and we are not – on the side of those who advocate the equalisation of funding only for the compulsory primary education programme. So it comes from the expression of the work that is compulsory for all children, whether they attend public or private education. The extended programme is not compulsory, it is voluntary, for all children, including those in public education. As we will continue the discussion on the issue of equality and similar concepts, let me draw attention to some of the details that the proponents of full equalisation of funding will always remain silent. For example, private schools determine the content of the programme themselves and determine a narrower content. That private schools are not obliged to enroll every child, but only public schools are obliged to do so. That private schools have tuitions which would undoubtedly be maintained irrespective of the amount of public funds received. And another difference remains overlooked, namely, that private schools pursue some of the partisan interests of parents, for they want education for their children, in accordance with their beliefs, secular, pedagogical, religious, if you will. There is nothing wrong with this, nothing, but the question is whether it is the duty of the State to ensure a level playing field. And our answer is no. I repeat, we support the promotion of public primary education, which is accessible to all and not the choice of pupils under certain pre-defined criteria. Public primary schools must be plural, valuablely neutral and must form the basis for living in a solidarity, tolerance and just society. But although we have an excellent public education, I am afraid that this time you will re-popularly and ideologically abuse the amendment of the law, as you did by submitting a proposal for a constitutional indictment against Marjan Šarc, because the current government of the Constitutional Court's decision did not implement it in the first 100 days of your term, of course, by your taste. Be honest and at least this time refrain from deceiving yourself and admit that the Constitutional Court has drawn a gap between the mandatory and the extended programme. It has clearly stated that the State is obliged to fund only the mandatory part of the programme. Such a proposal has also been drafted by the government of Marjan Šarc, which has not been adopted because some advocate the interests of individual groups and not education itself. Let me also recall here that the European Court of Human Rights, as the European Commission, has confirmed that countries are not obliged to subsidise private educational institutions. No international document obliges the State to finance or co-finance private education and even less determines the level of such funding. The vast majority of EU countries are giving less financial support to private education than to the public. In any case, private schools, through their teaching approaches, innovative practices and content, enrich, complement and strengthen school space. However, they must not jeopardise the public primary school system, which is accessible to all students, while private primary school has no obligation to accept everything, the choice of whom it has accepted may be. Private primary education has the right to choose. This is not an argument that it is a small private school and a low financial contribution, because in this case it is not a question of money, but a system which, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, social position, political or any social belief, provides quality and accessible education. And once again, we are a social state that recognizes its future in children, so it is right for the state to provide an educational system that enables all children to have as much education as possible. It is important to ensure that primary school does not become a business. The primary and exclusive purpose of the school space is to educate children. We will not support the proposal to amend the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the proposed form in the Parliamentary Group Marjan Šarca. However, we have prepared amendments following the Constitutional Court's decision not jeopardising public education.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! Again, we have before us a proposal by which Slovenian right parties are trying to say SDS and NSI, with the great and steep support of the Modern Centre Party, to re-assign some kind of gift, an unacceptable gift to my notions, to private schools. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Court was last year, 12. 3. 2020, very clear and very exact. And cut, I hope it cuts, but it's not, it's a long-standing saga about what needs to be financed in private schools and what doesn't. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has made it very clear that it is necessary to finance the compulsory part of the programme at 100%. There was nothing about the extended part of the program. And that, dear colleagues and colleagues, is a key dilemma. Such a proposal that the mandatory part of the programme should be financed 100% has already been proposed by the Social Democrats in the previous government. Unfortunately, this proposal did not receive the necessary majority. And that's what we're talking about, dear fellows and colleagues, and please don't be fooled. We are united that the Constitutional Court has said that a mandatory programme of 100% should be financed. We do not oppose this either in the Social Democrats and in the other opposition. The problem is that the coalition, the Slovenian right with the help of the Roman Catholic Church, would also want to maintain 85% of the funding of the extended programme, which is not in any way the duty of the State to finance this extended programme. And that is what the Constitutional Court also attaches. And that's the key problem. We'd like to give gifts to private schools. Distasteful gifts amounting to 85% of the funding of the extended programme. And this is where we share. If you agree to the amendment of the LMŠ, the SAB and the SD that an extended programme, as the Constitutional Court has said, is financed by a mandatory programme of 100%, but the extended programme is not, this proposal will be confirmed by the Social Democrats. And once again, the same proposal was made by the Social Democrats in 2019 or not by the Social Democrats, the whole government, the Ministry then led the Social Democrat, brought it to the National Assembly, and the proposal was not adopted because the opposition at the time did not support such solutions. While you have taken a step forward, you have finally admitted that the Constitutional Court is talking about the need to finance only the compulsory part. But according to you, of course, because it is politically perfectly legitimate, but for us unacceptable, we would like to further finance the extended programme. I ask that some sense prevail here to find some consensus, to accept it, in some way to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and to legislate 100% of the financing of compulsory work, while at the same time there is no need to finance an extended part, especially because, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have a really good public education in Slovenia, a really good public education which has been built for 75 years. And the Social Democrats will not agree that this government would in one year because of partial interests, because we would like to grab these last few days when you're in power, because we are collapsing together, we will not allow this public education to be destroyed. We know the model of how to do it, how Orban does it, how Janša does it. Where you cannot take over the monopoly over public education, public health and so on through public institutions, you start establishing parallel systems, parallel universities, today you would also like to establish parallel primary schools. This is unacceptable, and this is unacceptable. And we know that this is also followed by the Roman Catholic Church, which is staring at re-catalysing Slovenia to create greater power and influence in Slovenian society. The Social Democrats will fight this with all their might. We believe he'll take over his sanity today. If this reason does not prevail, we will use all means to ensure that such a disputed law does not enter into force. We are thinking or not ruling out the possibility of a referendum, where we know that this government, which is not part of the people, is losing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! Someone earlier said that it was essentially just a matter of implementing a constitutional decision, which apparently is not. This law, proposed by the coalition, provides 100% of the financing of the compulsory part of private school programmes. From this point of view, it is one possible solution to what the Constitutional Court has decided, but it is not the only solution, but it is a problematic solution and that is why this is a debate between public and private education. By this law, if 100 % of the compulsory work and 85% of the extended part of the programme are financed by the new private primary school, they will be given some impetus. At the moment, while it is true that these private primary schools are not large, this is one of the cornerstones of their expansion. Public financing of private interests is, in any case, at the expense of a wide public network of primary schools, accessibility to primary schools and can lead to the decommissioning of this quality and broad system in the long term. Primary school is not only a place where it is educated, but it is one of the key areas – and therefore the key role of the country in maintaining such a status – in equating social differences. Any school-bound child may enter a public school in this country, regardless of whether he or she comes from a less wealthy family, regardless of whether he or she has different colors, regardless of whether he or she has any other personal circumstances. We can't say that about private schools. Even after this bill, private schools will be able to continue to exclude, select their pupils according to the environment they come from, according to the status of the family they come from, according to their religion, sexual orientation, skin color and so on. And from this point of view, this law is discriminatory because something that should be accessible to everyone is narrowed down to a private or partial decision taken by the school’s management. And the state is supposed to fund it. From this point of view, this law is controversial and exclusive. One more thing to point out. Due to all the austerity measures and the tightening of the belts we have witnessed in recent years, the fact that public education is absolutely undernourished is a fact. In addition, in the past year and a half, the epidemic was also carried out by the Ministry of Education with Minister Simono Kustec and caused additional deficits. At this point, talking about putting another half billion into private schools is crazy. This money should go towards strengthening public schools, strengthening public primary schools and in essentially eliminating all these shortcomings that have occurred over time: more teachers, more other capable staff, etc. Not to be financed by public funds of partial private interests, which are also, if you like, inseparable from the ideological indication of these private schools. They all say that 100% of the mandatory programme will be financed because it is the same programme as in all other public primary schools. No, it's not. If you go to the curriculum of the Aloyzi Šusthar Primary School, which is the private primary school of the Roman Catholic Church, it clearly states that through the entire school process this indoctrination in the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church is somehow present. They write it down, and we start with prayer, and that's how we end it. So you can't just create these gaps. Of course, a private school established for some secular, religious, or other reasons also has a teaching method that is intertwined throughout the course. As far as this is concerned, the position of the Left is quite clear, and we do not support this proposal because every cent for private school development is a cent less for the development of public primary schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the proposal is to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 4 December 2014 in conjunction with the Constitutional Court decision of 12 March 2020. Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: “Education is free. Primary education is compulsory and financed by public funding. The state creates opportunities for citizens to receive appropriate education." The Constitutional Court has already decided on 4 December 2014 that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since it provides that private primary schools implementing public primary education programmes are only 85 per cent of the funding provided for public schools. The Constitutional Court has ruled that this is inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has set a one-year deadline for the abolition of the finding of anti-constitutionality, which expired on 9 January 2016. In the context of the implementation of that constitutional decision, several proposals were made for laws that were not adopted. On 12 March 2020, the Constitutional Court re-judged and decided that the first sentence of Article 86, second paragraph, of the Law on the Financing of Education in Work relating to public financing of supplementary education, morning protection and extended stay in private school with the public programme obtained was not inconsistent with the Constitution. In that decision, the Constitutional Court also found that the legislative non-response of the National Assembly in respect of the obligation imposed on it by a decision of the Constitutional Court constitutes a violation of the principles of the rule of law, i.e. Article 2 of the Constitution, and the principle of the division of power, second sentence of Article 3(2) of the Constitution. The implementation of those constitutional decisions therefore requires the legal arrangements for full public funding of that part of the private school programme with acquired public validity which corresponds to the content of the compulsory part of the public primary school programme in a private primary school. Today's bill establishes a legal basis for the implementation of the compulsory part of the programme by private schools implementing the public education programme, providing public funding at the same level as for the implementation of the compulsory programme in public schools. However, the bill is without prejudice to the current arrangements for the financing of the extended part of the primary school programme, which remains at 85 per cent of the funding provided for the implementation of the extended public school programme. In Slovenia, there are six private primary schools implementing a public education programme and 448 public or state primary schools, which is why it is afraid that primary education in Slovenia will be completely eliminated. I would like to point out that private schools in Slovenia show the necessary quality of education and enrich space and introduce plurality. The choice and the right to raise children in accordance with our beliefs and values also gives us the right to choose primary education. However, it is crucial that the State has to finance an approved or accredited programme by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, irrespective of the operator. I would like to point out that it is already a matter of implementing a second decision of the Constitutional Court and that the funds for this are EUR 300,000 per year. Members of New Slovenia take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court, all decisions of the Constitutional Court are taken into account, and we will therefore support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB sent groups, the amendment of the MP Group and the amendment of the LMŠ sent group. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm going to set up an application for the list of discussers. The application is being made, please register with interested parties. The first word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you so much and thank you so much for saying good-bye to everyone! As I have already mentioned in the position of our parliamentary group, the issue of today's law is an issue that we have been dealing with for quite some time, in a broader sense since 2010, when the Constitutional Court first laid down this issue in a broader sense, and since then very intensely over the last five years, when we first interpreted one constitutional decision and then we have another. I will begin by making quality public education one of the most important good things to me personally and also to the customers I belong to. Personally, I truly believe that quality public education, in particular primary education and, of course, continues to separate the successful countries from the failed ones, both medium and university. If we had African countries, for example, a system of public primary education as well organised and funded as we have in Europe, including Slovenia, I believe I cannot know, I believe that there would be no hunger, drought and conditions that make people live as they do, or run for a better life. But if I go back to Slovenia. As I have already said in my position, the debate on whether today's SDS proposal and the coalition will accept and give these few 100,000 euros for 100% of the financing of the compulsory private school programme is not a debate on these 100,000 euros, but it is an important substantive debate on where we want to go in this country, what kind of country we want. It is an example of a country for which we yearn, more like Scandinavian countries or more like the United States, Britain and so on. It is crucial for me here that we have organised and funded public education. Our public education is very quality, but it is not ideal. Every system, even such a huge system, of course, always needs adjustments. And I would like our public education to follow more quickly the development, progress, needs of society and change of society, which has indeed been going on extremely fast in recent years and decades. In order for public education to do so, public education will also need funding. And when we share these 100,000 euros, if you share them, of course, we're absolutely against it, it's definitely true that in the long run we're weakening private education. I'll tell you why. True, our constitution stipulates that all children must have the right to free primary education, and they also have it. In our country we have public schools built all over Slovenia, including in areas where not many people live, in some high mountain areas where classes are very small, schools are very small. All this is provided by the state. Schools build them, equip them, maintain them, pay teachers, educate them, pay their regressions, holidays, sick people and so on. All of this is guaranteed by the state. And every child who wants to join us and have a free schooling has this right because the state gives it to him. Even in a situation where, for example, because of the great growth of the generation, that at some point of public school we do not have enough space, our law already provides that a concession of some kind of private school may be granted at a moment. In this case, a private school can solve such an extreme situation by taking over-age children, children who could not come to public school by accident, in which case such a private school will receive a concession and will be paid in exactly the same way as any public school. This does not happen, of course, because we also have a planning system and so on, but we have this option, and no child of ours can ever be left without a primary school. That's why what you're saying in the coalition is simple deception. All children have the right to education free primary schools in our country and are guaranteed to all on the basis of the current law. Of course, the problem is that you would like something in private education that we have accepted in our country, even in the SAB, as an additional offer, as an alternative, some additional pedagogical conditions, we would like to compare after funding with public education. Because, you know, respected citizens and citizens, if this is the case, we go to Slovenia in private. Some parties would love to go private, private, but they would go private by paying the state for it privately. That's how some people feel about us in private. Private kindergartens must, absolutely, be established by anyone who has 5 minutes and some money, I admit, and then the country, you don't want to, you don't want to, or you don't need, or it's enough kindergartens or not in this congregation to pay 100 percent for that kindergarten or for the kid who's in this kindergarten. That's the opinion of this coalition. And the same is based on primary schools, whether we need an extra primary school or not, or we have enough primary schools, or we pay for existing primary schools, teachers, we maintain spaces, buildings, all of this, we can decide, you can decide, and you can decide – because 85% is not enough. Isn't it? 85%, this is now to be understood, I will repeat it ten more times – you pay 100% of this majority programme, so learn, and 85% pay everything else, extra, supplemental and so on. This is their private vision. 185% and almost 100%, as for public schools, pay private schools. The right to choose is not a right to finance. This must be repeated thousands of times today. Not even 100 percent of the funding. Because, what's gonna happen? Private schools, let us leave four of these with this Christian omen, even perhaps it is not close to everyone, but private schools, if this change succeeds, will become more or less for parents who now have to pay something to a private school, as dearly or rightly, almost as cheap as public schools. And then there's a parent who maybe didn't even think until yesterday about putting a child in a private school, but he said, but now that it's almost the same thing, and I'm going to have to pay these 100 euros, because something will still have to be paid -- I hope we're clear -- and I'm going to pay these 100 euros, and my kid's going to be in a school that's not going to have 30 kids in a public school, if there's a big generation, but 15 kids, and I'm going to give 100 euros, and my kid's going to have a nice, air-conditioned gym with natural wood, but not an old gym that the congregation hasn't been able to rebuild yet, because there's not enough money, so I'm going to give these 100 euros, and my kid's going to have something special, and I'm going to have up to four of everything at school, that I don't know, that I don't have to drive anything, but I don't know, like us, but Plebs that we haven't have enough. A private school offers all this, but you know, on the spot, so parents have as little work as possible. Great, great, I say. Whoever wants it, whoever expects it, should pay for it. If it were up to me, I should pay more and I do not agree, if I speak out of my mind, with my personal opinion that it is now paying 85%, 50% should be paid or nothing. But we have a decision of the Constitutional Court, quite controversial to me, I can comment on it, I am not offensive, 5:4 was adopted at the time, but it was very unclear. And if you remember and those who listen to me, I've been warning them all along. I read the provision, I read the separate opinions, it was not clear at the time whether that provision, which was also incredibly short in terms of the problem, applied only to the compulsory part or to the extended part. It wasn't clear. And now we have a new decision, which says that 100% of the funding, which I do not agree with, I have already mentioned, but I respect the Constitutional Court, should only be mentioned, as the Constitutional Court has said: "The task of the State is to finance only a compulsory part of the programme, but not a supplementary teaching, morning protection and extended stay." We have this provision now, and we must live within these provisions. That is why I and my client, and, I think, the entire then coalition without difficulty, have supported, I think, the good law of the former Minister, Minister Pikal, who solved it in exactly the way I said it, and as the Constitutional Court said it was appropriate. Because otherwise, I repeat, every difference between a private and a public school is lost. And what tears come into my eyes when I listen to these positions of coalition parties, society must ensure equal starting points and opportunities for all children. The company provided equal starting points and equal opportunities for all children. All children can visit, enroll in any public school, even if they are at home high in the hills, even if they are physically affected and need special access to school, because they are, say, on a wheelchair, even if they have special needs regarding their education, they may have autistic problems or something like that, even if they are from a gypsy family, even if they are from an Albanian family, they all have the opportunity to do so. On the other hand, we have a private school that says, yeah, we have 50 places this year, we invite parents to talk, and then they talk a little bit about what these parents are like, where they come from, and if the kid has problems, it's an extra cost. I'm a little rude, because I know it may not be at all, but I mean, they can choose, and public education can't. And when 50 seats are occupied, ma'am, I'm sorry. And they don't care where these kids are going to be over 50, because that's not their problem, that's the problem with the state. And they would go to private education, which is 100 percent funded. That's what we're gonna do. As long as we have such a quality education, as long as the state adequately maintains the public network of primary schools, and as long as these primary schools are in such a state that they have not been maintained for years at all, to be maintained, to be renewed, to be rehabilitated, I don't know, to do the things that you do in every building to maintain it, I don't want to give even 100,000 euros for that purpose, it seems a disaster to me. There's another statement. One of the views was: “The Society counts more with each well-educated individual.” Watch it now! Since they will not be in private school, they will not be well educated individuals. Are those parents who don't want to go to a private school, then they won't put the kid in school if the private school isn't free? Let's stop! Let's stop fooling around! We all know why he's going. These are some special teaching methods I sometimes admit – Waldorf School, I think already funded 100%. [[advertising from the hall]] One is 100%, of course, and then there are four schools with quite a Catholic omen, and there is nothing against Catholics if they want their children to be specifically raised in this spirit, but it seems to them that public education does not understand that they should put in these schools, but they should pay something. However, we cannot agree that some special needs are paid with public money, as I always say, because oil does not flow from under our chair and we do not have an ideally solved situation for public schools, which are for everyone. I'm always extremely emotional about this subject. You know, I know I'm getting on someone's nerves, but this is so important to me. This is where the distinction really begins. You also have public schools in Great Britain and in America, but watch movies about who goes to public schools and what happens there, who goes to private schools and how much these private schools cost and what the difference is. It starts with small things like the fact that the difference is minimal and why, as it's said, wouldn't put a child where there's 15 in the classroom, not where there's 30. Private education can only be a complement; it must be specifically financed by those who want it. As a country, we need all the money, and it is always too little, to give to quality public education, better than it is now, more tailored to the needs of modern society, more flexible, more close to children, more rapidly evolving in line with these trends that we know. That's why we're going to fight in the SAB and I in person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Article 54 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia first: »Parents have the right and duty to maintain, educate and raise children. This right and duty may be withdrawn or restricted to parents only for reasons provided by law for the protection of children's benefits.” Hence, parents can also have a desire to enroll in a school, and they have a choice. Article 57 of the Constitution states: “Education is free. Primary education is compulsory and financed by public funding. The state creates opportunities for citizens to receive appropriate education." The 2014 Decision states as follows with regard to this article, which we are talking about today: “The first sentence of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is in the work relating to public education programmes in breach of the Constitution.” What does this 86th article say? The second paragraph of Article 86 refers to private schools, not only primary schools, but all private schools, primary and secondary schools, and says: "The private school implementing the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be provided with 85 per cent of the funding provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme. Private schools do not have funds for investment, investment maintenance and equipment.” So that's paragraph two. And 2014 says the Constitutional Court that this paragraph is inconsistent with the Constitution. Then the Constitutional Court corrects its decision and 12. 3. 2020 says: “The first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 in the part relating to public financing of supplementary education, morning care and extended stay in a private primary school with a obtained public programme is not inconsistent with the Constitution.” So, allow the 2014 dictatorship to be inconsistent with the Constitution, but one part of the programme is not inconsistent with the Constitution. This means that the sentence to provide 85% of the resources for the implementation of the programme, i.e. the supplementary part of the programme, the supplementary teaching, the additional teaching, the extended stay, is to ensure that this is okay. This is said to be 85 % of the resources allocated by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme, it is quite good for the financing of this extended programme, supplementary education, morning care and extended stay. And at the same time, of course, leave alone the part that the Constitutional Court has already said is inconsistent with the Constitution, i.e. for a compulsory subject, it is Slovenian, mathematics, foreign languages and all the subjects that we know in primary school. Madam President, Ambassador Masha Kociper said she would say a thousand times that there is no need to finance anything. I will, of course, tell her that there is a constitutional decision number 68/98 of 2001, where the 21st paragraph of the commentary states on compulsory co-financing of private schools by the State. He says: “If the constitutional plurality of educational institutions is to be ensured, it is the responsibility of the State to create financial opportunities for this. Its contribution depends on how much it can do, but the support must be such as to enable the actual existence of private education.” This Decision remains. So if the lady says that a thousand times, she denies this 2001 constitutional decision. So if we allow the existence of private education, we also need to finance it, but at a higher level than the state can. However, the State can, in accordance with Article 86 of the current directive, 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme. And what does the 2020 Constitutional Decision say? That that's just enough. And here it decides that this is quite enough, so in the work relating to public programmes, it is not inconsistent with the Constitution, i.e. supplementary education, morning protection, extended stay. We have now been proven here that 85%, according to the Constitutional Court for Complementary Education, Long-staying, Morning Protection is sufficient. At the same time, the 2020 Decision does not contradict the 2014 Decision, which states that education must be free of charge because it is incompatible with the Constitution. So it says that 100% must be financed by the mandatory programme. Madam President also says that there is no difference in the financing of private public education, which is not true. Article 86 says well: “Private schools do not have the means to invest, investment maintenance and equipment.” So if you want to build a private school, you have to build a building. If we know roughly how much a two-part school costs, then a two-part public school, I'll tell you that it's not less than 7.8 million. [[…]] So, absolutely, someone who makes a private school has to invest substantial resources into the house to put it in the first place. Although it is so luxurious, it definitely cannot be as luxurious as a public school, because I do not think that any private person has the means to do so. And, of course, that already means investment. And then there's investment maintenance. If you change the roof at public primary school, it'll be paid by the municipality. But if he's gonna change the roof at private school, then the private has to pay for it. It is important to say that if you want to have a private school, then you must first bring the programme to the expert board, the expert board confirms this programme and must comply with the legislation. Then a school like this gets into the picture. In the amendments that are present today, they also state these matters in order to meet the following conditions for them to be included in the public education and education programmes. They must, of course, be entered, as this is also required by the ZOFVI in Article 34. Each school must be included in the public education and education programme if it is to be a public school or if it is to implement a public programme and if the children want a certificate to show that they have an adequate education. The talk was about what distinctions can be made with regard to nationality, race, sex, language, and religion. See, the ZOFVI in Article 2 discusses the aims of education and education. And this 2nd article is quite clear. You have a second indent that says that the aims of the education and education system are: “Teaching for mutual tolerance, developing awareness of gender equality, respect for diversity and cooperation with others, respect for children and human rights and fundamental freedoms, developing equal opportunities for both sexes and thus developing the ability to live in a democratic society.” You see, no racial or any distinction is possible. They then also state in their amendments that the primary school should implement the content of compulsory subjects laid down by the law governing primary school for public primary schools. That's what he's doing. The only difference between private primary school subjects is that instead of saying that you have biology, chemistry and physics, you have at least one natural subject. We know that by the end of the 7th grade in public primary school we have the subject of science, which all of these three subjects contain, and then separate into three different subjects in the 8th, 9th grade, namely biology, chemistry and physics. Many schools around the world, as well as many of us, have been debated in order to ensure that these three subjects are united in science by the end of the nine-year primary school. This is also how an economic high school offers three subjects: physics, biology, chemistry. As I know, I don't think almost any high school economics is doing physics, but just biology and chemistry. So the private school according to the subject does not differ from the public school. Of course, they also have their objects, such as a culture of religion or something like that, if I'm not mistaken, they have an extra subject. The amendment also suggests that employees have at least 80% of teachers or educators needed to implement the programme that has gained public validity. This amendment, so this provision in this amendment is absolutely unnecessary. Article 104 of the ZOFVI refers to the conditions which the school must fulfil. All schools must have teachers who have this education in order to qualify as a professional worker. ZOFVI also discusses the need for the school to have employees. Now, whether he is full-time or part-time, it depends on how many departments he has. We know that an average two-part public primary school can never hire a full-time technical teacher because it just isn't enough hours. Many teachers teach technical education at two public primary schools. So, of course, this scale depends on the number of hours. If you also look at the mode of employment, it is always a regular job. I don't know, and I've also been talking about having schools with employed teachers under the contract. There may also be some kind of public school for a shorter period of time, perhaps for some replacement, but these contracts are also very rare in public schools, and they are not in private at all, because a simple business contract is terribly expensive. This summer, the salary of a private school teacher is the same as that of a public school, cannot be higher. By no means can it be higher because the ZOFVI is talking about the fact that wages have to be the same. Private schools must also, of course, conclude a contract with their co-investors, majority investors, this is with the country and with the municipality where they agree on the exact amounts and purposes for whatever is financed. And if I go back to funding private schools now. If private schools were to be financed, and if they were profitable, they should not be, because this is precisely the decision of the ZOFVI that private schools should not be profitable, so if this profit were to be collected together and then bought I don't know any of the things that aren't at all about education, then they would be profit schools, but they're not because they can't be. All the money that comes to school is for the student. All that will be seized today, today's debates and the adoption of this law, is that parents will pay less tuition at the checkpoints, because now they have to contribute 15% to the salaries of the teacher of compulsory subjects, and then they will no longer have to pay for the salaries of teachers of compulsory subjects. However, if they send their children for extended stay, and after this law, which follows exactly this decision to the point, of course, they will still have to settle 15% for the salaries of teachers in the extended stay and for the didactic means used there and the materials needed to carry out the training. I think that, for the first time, for negligible resources, in the thirties of Slovenian existence there were 6 private schools and we have 448 public schools. So we're talking about 1%, we're talking about 1%. Does anyone in this country imagine that 1% could break up public education? It's simply about parents who have a slightly different view. I guarantee something, and I was the principal of a successful and good and excellent elementary school, and I am proud of her work, of the work of the entire collective, and also modestly speaking, I am pleased with my work at that time. But believe me, I was able to introduce at least elements of montessori pedagogy. Montessori pedagogics in particular influenced the creation of a learning plan from mathematics because it represents a much greater representativeness, individualization and children progressing better. Therefore, these schools, which are different from public schools, those schools, those schools, those teachers who enrich this practice, are few, but they are precious pearls that represent a difference, and these differences enrich us. Imagine that all of us would be exactly the same in this National Assembly. I think you'd be very, very bored. Although it is sometimes awkward, although we often disagree, it is the debate that brings new added value. And one more thing, all those parents who send their children to private schools are taxpayers. They also pay income, and public schools are financed from this income, and their children do not go. I think we could show so much patience in our society that this law, followed by an exact constitutional decision, could be supported today and help parents to pay less because these private schools are not just rich people. Just the opposite. There are people who can have very low incomes, I know some of them myself, and they find it hard to pay tuition. However, it must be because you have heard that neither the state nor the local community can afford certain costs nor must it co-finance. Investment in space is not financed by tax money, although these same people also pay taxes to finance public education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The replica has Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u32	Yes, President, thank you very much. I will then apply once again not to break the rules of procedure because I have several things to answer to my colleague Škrnjar, but I have a classic replica according to the Rules of Procedure, either because my colleague did not listen to me or she did not want to understand me properly. I have never in my debate and this is certainly evident from the magnetogram, if anyone wants to look at it, I have not said that I will say a hundred times or a thousand times that there is no need to finance anything. I never said that because I would never say that. However, I said that I would say a hundred times or a thousand times that the right to choose is not equal to the right to finance. That's what I said. And when you read from the Constitution and so on, because we understand everything. The Constitution is clear, but the Constitution also stipulates that the country is the one that creates opportunities for primary education. And the country is creating these possibilities. And I'm talking about how the payment of this program will be equal for parents, but of course here is building the building, financing the renovation and so on, but Mrs Škrnjar, no private schools are forced to build a school, a school building, maintain it, change the roof, because of me, they don't have to build it at all, and they still have to build it and offer a private school. You say, they work totally non-profit, it requires law. Yeah, they say they build a school, they invest a bunch of money in buying land, all these building taxes, and so on, they build a school, they maintain it, and they don't want anything to do with it. Isn't that interesting? They just go to school so generously, and they just want their parents to have the same opportunity to pay for everyone. And I'm gonna say, they obviously have some interest in going to a private school. And so do you. Everything else in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Of course, anyone who goes to private school has some interest. If I were much younger today, I'd do montessori school too, because I'd like to do it this way because it's a wonderful pedagogy. And these people, in fact, you see that they're employees, the heads of these schools are also teaching in these schools, so it's enthusiastic. Earlier, Mrs Kociper had talked about that if we had as much public education as we did in Africa, there would be no problems as we see them and we also feel in Europe. Look, a lot of people are actually enthusiastic and a lot of people have already gone to Africa and set up schools there, not because of profit, but simply because of idealism or because of enthusiasm for some pedagogy. You have to understand that we're different people in the world. One of them wants to know, someone else. And in fact, the people we lived for our professions, we loved them very much. And these people who set up private schools simply have motive and interest. And I can tell you that many of these private schools have grown out of private houses where the owners have retreated to the attic so that they can leave the house to kindergarten and then to school. And in 20, 25 years, they managed to save enough to set up a small school. None of these individuals are rich, no one is rich, but in fact they have a job there and they work there and they realize their professional interest in life.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Marko Koprivc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Mrs. Shriner, what you're saying, I believe you don't believe yourself. The fact is, it's obviously an interest. And here are two interests. On the one hand, the capital interest of those who set up schools is, on the other hand, even more important, the political interest of you is that through private schools you can influence education more than you can do through public schools. So I'm asking you to stop fooling around. Social Democrats stand on the point that it is right to distinguish between public and private school funding to a greater extent than this law foresees. Because, of course, you will say back again, like colleagues Kociper, because investments, building houses and so on are not part of public funding. Yeah, thank God. Is that what you want? Then we can really shut down the public network. Why, then, if all were to be financed by the State, it is clear that the financing is completely equal, but of course it is unacceptable and must not come to this. But I'd like to point out one more point. Something about the Constitution is that all children have the right to choose and so on and to education, to attend primary schools free of charge. Of course they do, but in Slovenia we have a public network of primary schools distributed throughout the country. And it must be sought that this public network is improving, that it is being upgraded, that it invests in investment in these public schools and that these schools are actually accessible to all children in our country. And they are accessible, regardless of religion, regardless of race, regardless of which part of the country you come from, etc., which of course does not apply to private schools. We're going down at the first point. Given regional representation, only under the same conditions does not all children have the opportunity to access a private school because, as we know, private schools are mainly established in Ljubljana and larger cities. Why? It's perfectly logical, because in smaller places, it's not worth the investment. And that's the key problem, and we're already falling down here at the point of ensuring equality, not saying all the other things. I wouldn't want to drive my child to a school where they're hanging on the wall of the cross and where there's one of the misdemeanors of a believer. And why would the state be obliged to fund such a school in its entirety? I'm not talking about the mandatory part of the program. I'm talking about the extended part. Why? The Constitutional Court has made it clear, very clear, Comrade Lisec, it has made it very clear. But now it has made clear that it is the responsibility of the State to finance the compulsory part. Yeah, that's what it says. You're admitting it yourself. However, you want political – and I repeat again, it is legitimate, but for us Social Democrats it is unacceptable – to retain 85% of the funding of the extended programme when it comes to compulsory work. In fact, this brings us almost closer to financing public schools, which is unacceptable. I am not against the fact that there are also private schools as some corrective as a choice. But if a parent decides to put a child in a private school, whether it's a montessori school, a Waldorf school, or a Catholic school, then it's up to him, because no one has a choice, but it's up to him, because he wants to put a child in a different school than the state has to pay for it. Although here, even when we are talking about Catholic schools, we know that the church is one of the capitalist organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and it would in some way be in accordance with Christian values that it helps these parents and that it is financed from their funds by this manna of funds, as you say, which is needed for the normal financing of these schools. I think it would be right that, today and many times before we talked about these private schools, we would rather discuss how to improve the public school system, how to provide more funding for public schools and at the same time adopt a solution in the area of private school financing that is consistent with the decision of the Constitutional Court and does not place private schools in a privileged position. This is the solution we have proposed in the previous government under the ministry of Dr. Jerne Pikal, but unfortunately it has not achieved enough support. Today, with the exact same solution of the opposition's re-party, the SD, SAB and LMŠ, we are proposing an amendment with which the mandatory part of the programme would be financed at 100%, as the Constitutional Court has said, but the extended part of the programme would not be financed, because it is a matter of the school to provide funds for this, at least on the shoulders of schools or investors when it comes to Catholic schools, it is the Roman Catholic Church, or parents, because parents still have the option of entering a child into a free public school. In addition, the amendment lays down other conditions that must be met for the school to be eligible for funding. So I call on you to accept this amendment, to conclude this matter and to "do not make a nuisance" just before the end of your term of office, because your term of office ends in one way or another, your hours are counted. I understand, I repeat, that you want to grab some more money for these private schools of yours, but it's a really distasteful and it's high time that this fairy tale ends as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. First of all, you said "your private schools". I don't have a private school, and I don't know that any of us would have private schools, we don't have private schools, and we won't have private schools. Secondly, once again, the second paragraph of Article 86 states that private schools account for 85% and the Constitutional Court's decision states that this law is not unconstitutional in this part. This means that 85 percent of the additional study is appropriate. Come on, Mr Koprivc, read the constitutional decision, not to speak up, the law follows exactly the constitutional decision. It leaves those 85% that are not contrary to the Constitutional Decision and, of course, what the previous Constitutional Decision has said is that the mandatory programme must be financed 100%. There's gotta be a difference. And one thing is, the state is looking after a public network of primary schools. For the first time since 2012, she has allocated funding for co-financing, I think, 70 million to rebuild primary and secondary schools and kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u40	Mrs. Boxer, you obviously didn't listen to me very well, so I'd like to replicate it for you. I did not speak of the Constitutional Court saying that it is not in accordance with the Constitution of the 85% because the Constitutional Court did not speak of it. However, I said that the constitutional decision must be complied with. The Constitutional Court spoke solely and solely of the compulsory work, of the compulsory programme, so please do not deceive. By providing 100 % of the financing of the compulsory programme, the decision of the Constitutional Court shall be implemented. Nowhere and in nothing, and I repeat, because you are misleading the public, but the Constitutional Court did not talk about an extended programme, it is a political decision, it is a political decision. And since this liberal right just wants to dismantle the public network of primary schools, he wants to give these inappropriate gifts to private schools. That's all this is about, and that's what I said. I didn't say it's unconstitutional to put 85 there, but that the Social Democrats won't support such a solution, we can't, because it goes to the detriment of public schools. And then that observation that you don't have any private school. I believe that you do not personally have the media, you are co-owners, you and your Members, not specifically you, the Nova 24 media, and I believe you would also like to have private schools owned. But I wasn't talking about you personally or your colleague Tanko or I don't know Ferjan owns any school, specifically houses, but that he wants to take this click of yours in some way to influence these schools. This is unacceptable, and we will not agree to this, so please stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u41	Procedurally, colleague Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u42	Please, President, remind my colleague, we're not a click, we're people. We are elected Members, we are not clicks. That's an insult. Please do not complain in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u43	I think he understood your message. I suggest we move on. Lidija Divac Mirnik has the word, and then I'll reopen the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the List of Marjana Sarc, we are convinced that knowledge is the foundation of social and economic development. Slovenia has human capital, and we need to maintain it, and we need to upgrade it, because I think someone said today that we don't have oil running from below, I don't know where. In short, we have human capital and the environment, and these are our advantages that we need to take advantage of. However, due to rapid and extensive and many very unpredictable changes, we need to enable all citizens to develop as they want to develop. We therefore advocate two basic principles in the LMŠ: first, high-quality and fair public education, and secondly, we want to promote lifelong education with the competences of the future, because we believe that this is what will lead our society to a better time. This is why, of course, today's debate is important. It is important that we be able to decide where we want to go. As far as LMŠ is concerned, we want to go to public education and support it. In fact, if we want successful young people who can compete in the labour market in this global world, then, according to LMŠ, we need quality inclusive public education and training, as well as formal and informal learning, which equips young people with the qualifications and competences necessary for their meaningful participation in society, including for intercultural understanding and for a successful transition to the labour market. We could talk a lot about cultural, intercultural understanding in the National Assembly, but today it's not a topic, so I'm not going to open it. As it is said, we want a public education that is accessible to all and which does not choose students according to the criteria, not even those relating to sex, nationality, language, race, religion, political or other beliefs, not by material condition, birth, education or even possible social status of parents or disability. Which means we advocate public education, which, if I say so in my class, takes all the students, no matter what they're like and where they come from. And that's where we're different from our right-hand colleagues, so to speak. To be clear once again, as Alaska has already said in the presentation, we do not oppose private schools, because they are affluent, there is no debate at all, and we have never hidden this, and we will repeatedly do so – on the part of those who advocate the equalisation of funding only and only the compulsory primary education programme, as the Constitutional Court has also said and, finally, with all the amendments we have tabled in the opposition, we have also proposed. So we are for 100 percent of the funding of the mandatory programme. Because what is private, what is public, who is implementing what is not being implemented, and who is not doing what is often proposing, including today's proposals, silences private schools to determine the content of the programme themselves in accordance with their beliefs and in the final phase also in accordance with the financiers. Those set up by the Christian Church are also focusing on these Christian content, which is basically why I have no problem, but I don't want to, and my husband and I didn't do it, and we didn't put the kids in that school where we would be building these Christian values. It's so simple. But I don't have a problem if other parents do it. Proponents of private education also remain silent that private schools are not obliged to register each child. Only public schools have this responsibility. Private schools can choose which children will be enrolled in school. And I'm sure that's what they're doing. What are the criteria and whose child it is who will attend this private school, and that private school will decide for itself. The public school can't afford that. It might also be possible to do some analysis, in which schools there are more, say, disabled children or some other children who may need a different treatment. And I'm not going to speculate because I don't know this analysis, and I don't even know if it exists. Maybe Mr. Secretary of State can tell me. Thirdly, private school advocates do not say or say more quietly that private schools are collecting tuition. And these same private schools, I am almost sure, will also keep this tuition if today this amendment to the ZOFVI legislation is confirmed. Because that's what happens when someone sets up a private school. Well, enthusiasm is definitely in the back, not a question at all. Private schools advocate and pursue other interests. Interests that are, of course, compatible with the secular, educational, religious, or other interests of parents, which is basically nothing wrong. The question is whether it is a country that must be financed. And the answer to the LMŠ is that it is not necessary to finance this. Why? Because all these parents, who are their children and who will enroll their children in private schools, can also enroll their children in public schools. And this concept of public schools has long been learned in Slovenia. That is why we also have 448 public schools because this was some arrangement in this country and because these schools are also 100 percent funded and because they are schools where parents do not have to pay tuition. Of course, many changes are likely to be needed in these public schools too. But the perceptive situation has shown that it is a public one that maintains the system and allows people at the most critical times to survive, in the notes of course, one way or another, if we just look at public health. Therefore, I think it is crucial that we say here again today that the bill tabled by the applicants is in fact not only about the implementation of a constitutional decision, as stated at least in the SDS and in the NS, but actually about the financing of private education. It means 100 per cent of the financing of the mandatory programme and 85 per cent of the financing of the extended programme. This is what needs to be said correctly. Although the Constitutional Court has made it clear that the task of the State is to fund the mandatory programme, the point. And with these amendments, which we have proposed in the opposition, we are also following. Today we have also heard arguments that private schools are only 6 and that this is only 1% and that this is so small that it is now true, we give these few percent, we finance, it will all be almost 100%, but it doesn't matter, it is so small that there is no fear that private schools will spread. Maybe not today, but the question is, what happens tomorrow and what happens tomorrow? And given that, of course, enthusiasm is also that of setting up private schools, and other things, I fear that, in the second phase or in the third step, it can reach a breakdown of the public network, which is a good one that works, it is proven to be working. We do not see one reason in the LMŠ that this matter, which has been built by generations and generations of teachers, would be disintegrated. There's one reason we can't see. Primary school is a key area of socialisation, because different social differences are also being eliminated, so it seems important to us that the system, as it is, is maintained and upgraded. Here it can be our added value and here Slovenia can prosper. For the time being, everyone else, thank God, has the same opportunities and can sign up and attend the schools they want. And the position of the LMŠ as such is that it should remain so, so we absolutely support public education. A few debaters before me also said that parents have the right to choose. Of course they do, but the right to choose does not yet mean the right to finance. The applicant also said that parents who attend private schools are also taxpayers and have to pay public schools. Now, of course, this logic of hers can be reversed immediately and we can also say that all other parents are taxpayers and finance private education, even though their children do not attend it. I will refrain from commenting on such comparisons. [[…]] I wish to reject this law today because I want public education and the public network in Slovenia to remain public and private and to be financed as the Constitutional Court has said – one hundred percent of the compulsory programme that these private schools are also implementing. Accordingly, of course, I will vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest, so I'm asking you to report it. Seven reported. Before I give the floor to the debaters, I would like to point out that you are respectful in your deliberations, as we have in the Code of Ethics, and that you also respect what is enshrined in the Constitution between human rights, otherwise I will intervene accordingly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First he gets the word "Jura Ferrjan." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u46	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Secretary of State and honourable Members and, of course, all those who accompany us are a beautiful day! After us there is quite a time of debate, relatively interesting, but I would like to point out essentially that central issue, which is also, of course, the topic of this point and this amendment. In short, we are talking about Article 86, which refers to the conditions for financing. When we refer to both decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which have decided and concluded on this matter, it is the first from December 2014 and the second from March 2020, which has subsequently changed slightly. In fact, to know what we are talking about, I also believe that it is right for all those who accompany us to make certain things more explicit. Here is a talk about the first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 2, of the existing law, which refers to the conditions of financing. I will quote it because it is very short: “The private school implementing the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be provided with 85 per cent of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme.” And if we now refer to the existing decision of the Constitutional Court, first of all in December 2014, in which the Constitutional Court found that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of this Act is in breach of the Constitution. Then we received another decision from March 2020, which then further divided this area. Given the December 2014 decision, we could say that the Constitutional Court has concluded that it is a 100 % funding of both compulsory work and supplementary work. However, they then slightly amended this decision by March 2020 and, of course, this law, which we have before us or the Proposal for a Supplementation Act, follows this decision of March 2020, i.e. the last decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on this subject. This means that compulsory learning is financed in hundreds of percentages, so it rises from the existing 85 per 100, and that supplementary education, additional education and extended stay are financed at 85 per cent. This also requires the law on the amendment of this law, which we are considering today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the government coalition in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we end this law with many years of agony when responsibility has been placed on others, when several attempts have been made, but unfortunately it is not possible to regulate this area and implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It is important to be aware, respected and respected, that the money coming from the state budget for this area is not for schools, but for children, it is a key issue. We have heard today in the introduction that some are concerned that the school will become a company. School will not become a company, school is a non-profit institution, educational institution and money is devoted to children and not to schools. This is a key matter. It is interesting, however, that in Slovenia we have 448 public primary schools and six private schools, and in the left opposition you are concerned that this law will cause private education to overwhelm public education and the ratio is 448 to 6. Respected and respected, I will personally support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which implements the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I regret that this proposal also supports the Ministry of Education. A while ago, we had a bill tabled in the LMŠ concerning children with special needs, and there was an argument by the Ministry that the law was not systematic, including with regard to the financial implications, that we had quite a few concerns, but this time we have a re-sent law before us and that, interestingly, the Ministry and Minister Simona Kustec supports it. Today, much has already been said of Article 57 of the Constitution, which states that primary education is compulsory. I don't think anyone from the Marjan Sarc List or from other opposition parties today has objected. However, when a constitution is read, all articles must be read and linked. For example, Article 7 also states that the State and religious communities are separate. Here, too, we may wonder how it is then possible for a religious community to establish such and different schools. To understand what the difference between public education and private schools is. On the one hand, public schools accept everything, and we have seen how important public affairs are. Public health and public education, which has been in a very difficult situation, have won this health crisis. All of these teachers who work in it have actually helped to educate students as far as possible. Private schools, on the other hand, are not obliged to register each child, as has already been said today, while public schools are. So, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, social status or political belief, for example, parents, anyone can enter a public school, while a private school has a choice. Private schools also have tuition. And no matter how their funding will be arranged, there is no security guard to lower or even abolish these private schools. Private schools also pursue some of the partisan interests of parents who have such or different beliefs. Of course, there's nothing wrong with that. No one opposes private schools, including anyone who has the opportunity and the right to enrol his or her child in any school, but there must be a clear border between public and private and in such a way the matter must be financed. It is also necessary to highlight the position of the European Commission and the European Court of Human Rights, which has stated in several sentences that States are not obliged to subsidise private educational institutions. It is said that each country decides in its own opinion how it will finance private education and to what extent. Slovenia has made its decision as it is, and here we have also had quite a few decisions by the Constitutional Court. My predecessor said that the Constitutional Court had slightly changed its decision in 2020. I would not agree with this, because we have been interpreting the 2014 Constitutional Decision in the Marjan Šarc List the whole time, as confirmed by the Constitutional Court in 2020. It is said that we have a compulsory and expanded programme in education and that the state is obliged to finance only a compulsory programme, it is 100 % and all that is more is the good will of the country. No one is saying that if this law were to be adopted, it would be unconstitutional, because even if we put 100, 100 plus the state still builds infrastructure for all private schools, there is probably nothing unconstitutional, but I wonder what the point is if we have quality public education, why would we take something away from public education and give it to private education. So, what is absolutely necessary is to be financed, but all that is more is a matter of some kind of goodwill. I also support the funding that we have already made since the government of Marjan Šarc and which has also resolved the constitutional decision, which the Constitutional Court has actually confirmed with another decision from 2020, amounts to 100 to 0. Interestingly, today you say that the Constitutional Court has changed its thinking. Because, like I said, you were saying when we made a proposal to give 100:0 or 100:25 that it was unconstitutional. It's only 100 plus 100. You've also been reading our complaints, but apparently you've changed your mind today and today you're baranting. Nor does anyone claim that if we accept this, there will actually be no money for public education. These are some of the sequels that will allow all private schools to grow up like mushrooms in the rain, and only in some large cities, because I doubt that anyone in the countryside will decide to set up a private school. And that's the answer that more than these schools are companies, because if they weren't, there'd probably be a private school in every village. Yes, colleague Škrnjar, you do so as you say, is not in the interest of the founders, because there will not be enough inflow into their cash register, so they only work more than in Ljubljana and Maribor. [[…]] So, things need to be stopped at the right time, when possible, because once public education is destroyed, it will not be possible to put it back. A good example of this is, for example, England, where actually public education is more than a failure and only those most socially disadvantaged students attend public schools, while everyone else attends private schools because quality has fallen. As I said, in the List of Marjan Šarc and I will vote against this harmful law for Slovenian education myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I am returning to my word because there were some things in this debate that just don't hold up, and whoever is listening to us and following this, I think he deserves the truth or, I know, the truth is such a concept, I'll just say how I understand the current situation. Yes, here we have the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of primary education and so on. Indeed, education is free – thank God – primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds – yes, and the state is creating the opportunity for citizens to receive adequate education. In short, I understand this article as a commitment by the State to offer all children the possibility of free primary education in public schools. As I said before, public schools are those that must be established everywhere, throughout Slovenia, even in hilly areas, even where there are few inhabitants, they must take every child, including one that has physical impairment or special needs, including one that is Muslim or Albanian and does not know Slovenian, or one that comes as an asylumee in our country. These are all public primary school obligations. And, as has already been said a hundred times, in our Group of Members, we support quality public primary education and believe that it is necessary to invest in it. But why did I call again? Because it is not clear, however, that so far the Constitutional Court has always defined itself only as regards the mandatory part of the programme, but not as regards this, say, extended part of the programme. And with regard to this extended part of the programme – and here Member Škrinjar is right – said that the current 85% is enough. Yeah, that's what she said. However, we have never before the Constitutional Court in this country have we judged what would have happened if we had given less for this extended programme. Perhaps it would say that 50% is enough or nothing, as the previous minister suggested. So I, I see that I'm running out of time, I'm sure all people understand the difference. Imagine the situation if a private school is as public as it is. What, for example, will happen in Kranj, where all those Albanian children who do not speak Slovenian go to public school? This needs to be addressed systematically, not by setting up a private school, so that all children will go there. Where does that lead? I'm sorry I'm running out of time, but there's gonna be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon. I have been trying all the time to keep this consistency and the issue that we are talking about today, to judge above all politically objectively and away from ideology. I was also aware of this aspect of what the Constitutional Court imposed on us and what we should do as legislator. However, public education is, of course, the foundation of the educational system and we must protect it, but in the spirit of free education and the right to free education, of course, we must also allow choice. I have also advocated explaining that it is not fair for children to suffer on the shoulders of such bills and to take something that belongs to them after birth because of some political whims. To elaborate on this – it is a child who, of course, cannot decide in a frequent year of life whether to go to a private, private or public school. That's what parents do instead. But this child, if he's in private school, can always hear that the state didn't give him the same for others that he was hurt. And I'm really worried if maybe these kids, if they're having this treatment of course, they're really starting to love their country a little less, and if that's really the small number that we're dealing with, it's worth the risk. That is why I advocated this solution to use the 100% funding formula for the mandatory programme and 85% for the extended programme. However, I have always stressed, and I would also like to do so this time, that private schools must demonstrate a sufficient level of quality and that we urgently need not only this promise, but that we must bring in security guards not only for the establishment and functioning of private schools, but also for the supervision of these schools. And that's not what's in the paper today. That is why these safeguards, at least this basic one, are in the amendment which we have tabled in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I am aware that these guards should be even more so, because they should be broader than what we are trying to introduce in this amendment today, but this article was the only thing possible. And to remind myself, this is a commitment after the admission of private schools to the register, to the obligation to ensure equal entry conditions in the light of personal circumstances. Here I would stop a little, because this is so beautifully said — on personal circumstances — and a colleague who explained that this condition was fulfilled, explained and justified in a very general manner, but, say, no one wants to say out loud that this is about the openness of all these schools, including children from, say, the Middle East, for children from families with same-sex parents, for everything that is easier to keep quiet and just generally say that it is guaranteed. But give me an example. Is that visible? I don't think so, because it's hard to get through your mouth. We further propose an amendment to the obligation to a certain extent of teachers employed. Compared to what the colleague Škrinjar reasoned, I have information that some teachers are justly intimidated, that they have business contracts that we know are extremely taxed, that very few of them get a net out of it, that they have no other option and that, if they want to teach, they are often very visionary persons who want to carry out the teaching, that they are forced to do so, and that they are also working for a change that is incomprehensible and incomparable to the size of this mission they are carrying out. We would therefore also like that, when it comes to the compulsory part of the programme, these private schools undertake that, if they already receive 100 % of the country's payment for the implementation of this part of the programme, they cannot, they must not charge the parents fees for this part. This is something we want to clearly write down and be respected. But we can't today. We would only like to introduce additional security guards, which, according to our assessment, are really necessary – this is about proving the program diversity and enriching the school space, because it is one thing when this purpose is demonstrated at the establishment of the school, it is quite another when this school begins and when there is no follow-up or valorisation of all of this. We would also like to clarify and define how to draw a clearer gap between these publicly valid programmes and private school programmes that have gained public validity. Finally, we believe and wish that there would also be an opportunity to withdraw public service if private school programmes did not follow the goals and education in the Republic of Slovenia. Here's something we can only judge from the position of now existing schools. If you imagine that there could be some other school of some other doctrine or world view, I think it is extremely important that one such guardian should be valid. But, as it is said, the novel is only open in this one article, it refers to private school funding, and we have no other option. We are not satisfied that this is just because we are talking only about minimum fuses, but, although they are minimal, for us, I am speaking for unrelated Members, an exclusive condition that, when we adopt this, we may even go further to consider confirming this law. We want to meet the criteria for the quality of private schools, in particular in relation to their justification for funding. These are the protectors we have discussed or decided in previous versions of the bill, and as you can see there are no revolutionary natures, they have no intention of blocking the functioning or financing of private schools, but they are still clearly required in relation to public schools, which are and will and must remain the primacy of our educational system. In my opinion, we do not put ourselves at risk or put ourselves in a worse position than others. We apply what we are told to do if you want to, we also draw closer to two world views, which, because of their conflicting characteristics, lead their poison to education where it is not meant to be. The Constitutional Court, with both decisions, has given us a clear way to resolve this, too much time-consuming, agony and, of course, opinions on this second part of the extended programme are shared today. I will not, of course, dispute here, because this is really a picture of an ideological charge or an assessment of the usefulness of this, but it is more important for me that this formula is in line with both constitutional decisions. I have to say that I understand those who are 85% enough, but I also understand those who are too much, who are 50% too many, 15 too, because this is some awareness of our plurality and look at it, who is capable of it, who is not capable, that is, of course, another question. I have something else to say that we may need to avoid such comparisons if I paraphrase this case of income payments so that all those who pay income will also be financed by public schools, even though children do not attend them. It's kind of flattering because we know how society works. All developed societies, such as Norway, Iceland, Finland, have these very high contributions and it does not occur to people to wonder what and how much we paid, what my child got out of it. To illustrate how I view the softness of such a problem, I would also say that only half the population is used to pay for the health care department in which we all pay for it to be financed by the gynaecology and maternity service, but not by half of the population, but not by anyone who thinks of it as a problem. Therefore, I would be delighted that in this sense education is no difference, that it is one understanding and that we leave this populism and substitution together for something that does not affect all of us as strongly in the most vulnerable area as our children. I only predict that the thought of supporting this law is only possible if the amendment we have proposed is confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Proposer. Mojato Boxer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u54	It's just about employment. For the purpose of carrying out educational activities, the school or kindergarten may conclude a contract of work, an undertaking under conditions laid down by law governing bond relations, provided that all the possibilities for concluding a contract of employment have been taken advantage of and that there is a need to ensure the smooth implementation of educational activities. Article 109a So there are no business contracts, but if there are, they are under these conditions. School and work inspection, however, control working relationships.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. In light of the foregoing, a few things need to be pointed out. We have a Waldorf School in Maribor and in Ljubljana, Ljubljana is funded 100%, so the programme, because it was established in the school year 1992-1993, before the amendment of the legislation, while the public programme of the Waldorf School in Maribor is financed 85%. So by then, they had a clear understanding of what and how the primary school should be financed. In view of the fact that this is a public programme approved by the Ministry, the Section for Education and so on. For 28 years these private schools have been operating, no big drama, and in recent years several departments have opened up. And to compare this with public schools, which are significantly higher, and to put public schools at risk, is a bad argument. The Constitutional Court, by decision of 2014, stated that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI is inconsistent with the Constitution. We then had a few attempts to amend the law, and none of them was adopted on the basis of a constitutional decision. That is why we reached another decision in 2020, where the Constitutional Court further detailed the case, saying that this part relating to the public programme is inconsistent with the Constitution and that the part relating to the public financing of the supplementary teaching, the morning protection and extended stay is not inconsistent with the Constitution. It was precisely because there was a tendency to give 0% for the extended programme. But the Constitutional Court is a girl who's 85% okay. He's not in violation of the Constitution. And that's all we're defending right now, and we're also suggesting that this remains. 100% of the share must be financed by the basic programme because it is equal to the number of lessons in mathematics, Slovenian, geography and so on, all that is prescribed for the secondary curriculum. And this is done by both public schools and private schools. And according to the Constitution, Article 57 of the Constitution states: Whether they are educated in public or private primary schools, primary education for children must be financed 100 % because it is compulsory because the state has said it is compulsory and therefore must also finance it. And that's all. One decision in 2014 and then a decision in 2020 - the answer to this is exactly the law we have proposed, as advocated by the applicant. And of course I will support this without amendments, which always want to make things worse and make things worse for children attending private schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representative of the Ministry, once again a nice greeting! In fact, today is once again one of the sad days of democracy. Instead of discussing properly and specifically what has been stated in the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, some are afraid of lying. We hear lies about how public education is to be destroyed with respect for these decisions. There is no destruction of public education. Nothing will change for public education. Nothing at all. However, we will give the six private primary schools what we, the proponents, have imagined, but what the Constitutional Court gave us in the 2013 decision and later revised this decision slightly, in 2020. In short, in some pitfalls, attacks on everything that's private, what's happening in recent years, when everything or in the field of health, education, even the economy, I'm afraid that someday there will be a private property debate, everything has to be destroyed. Six private primary schools are expected to endanger 448 public schools. I already told the board to tell me if it's possible for one player to beat 100 players in football on the opposite side? Or they can be endangered by 100 because 1% of private schools in Slovenia. Today we are hearing about the attack on public education, the destruction of public education. Respected that this coalition does not destroy public education is evidence of the last investment. One call, and then the government's decision, I think 74 million will be investments in kindergartens and primary schools. What has not been done for a decade will be done by this government in a year or two when it is being built. So much for destroying the public. Public support is needed, and not only does this government speak but it also works for public education. This is about investment in public schools, in places where the country does not have to give anything to private primary schools. In short, nothing is taken from the public, but what the Constitutional Court has decided is given. Today, we have heard what it is like to respect the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, even distasteful or inappropriate gifts. Otherwise, it makes sense to me, given what you were on the left hand side yesterday by not voting or voting against a top-notch Slovenian legal expert, who, although all his students had for fun because he wanted to have knowledge, you are giving another spit to the Constitutional Court today because you do not want to comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions. And that the law is going in the right direction, the Legislative and Legal Service also says, quote: "The ZPS considers that the bill follows the content of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and eliminates the finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution. Once again, in the SDS Group, we have since the first law, which I think we have filed there at the end of 2015, when a one-year deadline has expired, which was issued by the Constitutional Court in the second point of the decision, in order to settle this, we have advocated the so-called 100 plus 100 principle. We haven't changed our mind about some demagogies in the last year, which is exactly what you want to send, but because we respect the 12th Decision. 3. 2020, which says - I will say unfortunately, but the decisions must be respected and implemented - that in the work relating to public funding for supplementary education, morning protection and extended stay, it is not inconsistent with the Constitution. So in the work relating to supplementary education, morning care and extended stay, so far funding of ok. But since we are talking about public funding of public programmes, I personally see no difference in why someone will be deprived of the funding of supplementary education, morning care and extended stay. These are three components of public education or public programmes to be implemented by schools. But as it is said, the decision of the Constitutional Court sends us instead to 100:100, which we have been confident in the SDS Group since 2015, to solve 100 for the mandatory part and 85 per cent to finance the extended programme. So it really saddens me today that instead of talking about the rule of law and complying with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we listen to attacks, lies, even intimidation with the private. However, as far as amendments are concerned, I personally think that the amendment of unrelated Members may be problematic in practice. I personally know cases when a teacher teaches art in three schools. And now to commit them to being mostly employed in one school, I think it can be problematic, but if I'm wrong, at least the ministry representatives will probably say I'm wrong. However, as regards the amendment of the other left-wing parliamentary groups, it goes directly against the decision of the Constitutional Court. In short, those who are most powerful in their words regarding the Constitution, respect for the rule of law, and their actions, which are also recorded in their amendment, are breaking this down. In short, they're in the words for the rule of law, and they're in the act of destroying it. And today it was also said that we should accept some consensus. I personally believe that in such clear decisions of the Constitutional Court we do not need any consensus. The Constitutional Court is well written and the mandatory public programme 100%, supplementary education, morning protection and extended stay as it is. In short, no consensus, no intimidation with zero financing of extended work, which some want to do with your amendment. However, in the SDS Group we will once again look at what is happening to this amendment of the non-members. I say, personally, I think that under the provisions of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is even unnecessary. However, I hope that I am wrong that it is not harmful, but not harmful, because of political work, but harmful, that individual primary schools may then have individual problems when individual teachers have problems with employment because they do not respect the amendment or the law. Instead of talking about good schools and bad schools in Slovenia, some fear public and private. I myself will gladly support the marriage and hope that after six or seven years we will finally end this agony or saga in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Replica, Lydia Wilderness Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I would like to replicate my respectable colleague Lisco in the part where he explained how the opposition today listens to attacks, lies, even intimidation, to fear with both private and public. Although I, Comrade Lisec, have not seen you here all the time, because you probably listened to this somewhere else, I have not attacked anyone, I have not told a lie, nor have I intimidated anyone. But I argued why in the LMSH we think what you're suggesting is wrong. I will read once again the amendment that we have tabled in the LMŠ, where we write this, quote: “The private school that carries out the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be provided with 100 % of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme in order to implement the law governing constitutional schooling. Private schools do not have funds for investment, investment maintenance and equipment.” End of story. As it is said, the Constitutional Court has said that it is the task of the State to finance the mandatory programme, but not the extended programme. This was said by the Constitutional Court in its last decision. And we have also proposed so simply. But we never attacked or intimidated or lied about private schools. On the contrary, we have said that we support them, but we believe that the right to choose is not a right to 100 % of funding. As we say, in LMŠ we will not support your proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. As the last one in this circle gets the word mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I have applied for the word again to present in more detail our amendment, the amendment of the opposition, but, colleague Lisec, allow me, although I know I repeat myself, but also you repeat yourself all the time, deceive, deceive and again deceive, constantly with the same dictatorship. Before Mrs. Shriner, now you. No one in the opposition says that 85% of the funding of the extended programme is unconstitutional. That's not what we're saying. And that's not what the Constitutional Court ruling is talking about. The decision of the Constitutional Court shall speak solely of the financing of the compulsory programme. And the decision of the Constitutional Court requires 100% of the financing of the mandatory programme. What the Constitutional Court's decision on 12 March 2020 has said, once again, more clearly, we have also advocated in the then coalition and Minister Jernej Pikalo that the mandatory programme should be financed 100%. And we're in this together, I think. I mean, we are united in the need to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Even though you want to show us that we're against it all the time. And the second is the extended program. And I repeat, thirdly, even your thinking is legitimate, but for us socialists it is unacceptable, because I do not know why citizens and citizens should, of course, finance the extended programme of a private school. Why do you equalize the right to choose with the right to finance? Nowhere does it say that someone who goes to a private school must have the same conditions as someone who goes to a Catholic school. Every citizen has the opportunity and right to enter a free and high-quality public school. And with that [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, free. I agree that a number of additional activities could also ensure that the country is financed, and that we would rather invest in it resources, energy and these long debates than to renegotiate here on the financing of private schools, as has been the case many times. Let me say that yesterday, representatives of the democratic opposition tabled a proposal for an amendment to the ZOFVI, which discusses the regulation of this school fund, which would further establish a funding system while at the same time justifying the users of income payments. Because the current system is illogical. Someone who gets the right to use these funds then has to pay the country's income. It doesn't make any sense. And we'd rather talk about these things. Here is one solution that is ultimately corrective to the state, because the state should finance these things, but since the state does not, let us allow, at least through this community aid, through the solidarity of others in some way to allow at least the income here the state to renounce. And these are the questions we should be talking about. This, yes, Mr Lisec, would also be free of charge for more work volumes, so that perhaps more resources could be invested in some additional programmes to improve the quality of primary schools. Not that it will now be financed almost in the same way as the public schools of a private school with partial interests, but that Catholic schools will, of course, be financed in the same way. And it's right that there are these schools, but they can't be the same as public schools. They can't be because equality is already falling at the first point. Every child has no opportunity under the same conditions to join a private school, which is the case for a public school. So, once again, for the sake of the public, do not be misled, we are the Social Democrats for the Constitutional Court's decision to be applied. The Social Democrats, together with coalition partners in the government of Marjana Sarca, have put forward a concrete proposal on the table, which this application decision has not been supported. It is, however, that the Constitutional Court speaks of compulsory work, not of widespread work. And once again, even if this proposal of yours were to announce, 85% of the funding of extended work is not unconstitutional, and this is not what the Social Democrats are saying. But it's imaginatively unacceptable to us because it's disrupting the public school system. And yes, indeed, today these private schools are something, but with the government of Janez Janša providing them with unworthy gifts from the State in the long term, the interest of establishing such schools will, of course, be greater and greater. This is a matter of principle, not just for those 100,000 euros a year. Although even the 100,000 euros could be used in other ways. For example, colleague Lisec, in order to do some other activity that is payable to children in public schools, free of charge. Now, if I may, I would like to introduce our amendment to what our amendment specifically proposes. In addition, as I have already said, the extended programme would be financed at zero levels, that this is the cost of private schools, we are also proposing certain specific conditions which are the conditions for the start-up of private schools by the State; here we are talking about Article 86 of the ZOFVI. I quote: “For private schools that carry out the necessary primary school education programmes, basic music education, secondary general education or vocational and vocational education that have gained public validity, the resources of the State budget or the local community budget shall belong, if they fulfil the following conditions: they are entered in the register of the public education and education programmes,” whereas Mrs. Škřinjar says that this is already valid, but I do not think that there is absolutely anything wrong with the material condition, birth, education, social status, disability or any other personal circumstance; they are included or recorded in at least two sections of the first class, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, birth, education, education, education, social status, or any other personal situation; they have for at least two sections of the first class, sex or music school, education, education, education and other education; they have a minimum level of public education which is governed by the law governing at least three levels of education. [[…]] And another very important provision: “In these schools no tuition should be charged.” It's an amendment to the democratic opposition. In the event that this amendment is adopted, the bill you are proposing is also acceptable to us. In no way will we agree that some private schools that are obviously close to you, because they are more easily accessible to you to control than the public school system, will somehow prevail over quality public education. Once again, schools in the Republic of Slovenia are also among the highest quality in the world according to international comparisons. We've been building them for 75 years, and we're not gonna let Janša's government, along with her friends, interesting friends, destroy them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Just a question for the motions for this amendment. In the third indent, you must have some editorial error? Now I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it as a proponent or as a debater. Anyone else? I'll start the application process anyway. Please sign up. Two reported. First he gets the word Mojco the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Today, we have already said many times that there is a second paragraph in Article 86, which speaks of funding being 85%. But then we have two decisions, one decision says that there must be 100 % of education, and the other decision says that 85%, as set out in this law, is a decision from 2020, and that is fine. So simplisticly put. And you say that, you don't say that you want to be unconstitutional when you say that that's not what the Constitutional Court said, but that it can be less than 85% or nothing, anything. I will now read to you the paragraph in the explanatory memorandum in Constitutional Decision No. 68/98 in 2001, when this funding has already been discussed. The Constitutional Court states: "Article 57 of the Constitution gives rise to the obligation of the State to create the necessary legal framework for the establishment and functioning of private schools and to recognise the public validity of the education obtained in private schools. The State's decision not to allow private schools, but only public schools, in practice because of the extreme rigidity of public schools is in principle no longer in proportion to the concept of a democratic society. The further question is whether the State must also ensure their actual existence is whether it must ensure co-financing. Given the constitutional right to ensure that human rights can be effectively and effectively enforced, the answer is yes. If the constitutionally guaranteed plurality of educational institutions is actually achieved, it is also the responsibility of the State to create financial opportunities for this. While its contribution depends on how much it can do, support must be such as to enable the actual existence of private education. The idea that parents are children who send children to private schools and have to pay tuition is not justified in relation to those whose children attend public schools from the point of view of the Constitution. The legislator's decision to finance the state in its entirety only public schools where all parents can enroll their children is in the field of its assessment and therefore is not contrary to the Constitution.” So this is what this constitutional decision says. It's said that enforceability is also important. ZOFVI was adopted in 1996. It was accepted at a time when children's rights were actually weighed and education reform was under way. The ZOFVI in this form, with this dictatorship, was adopted during the time of Minister Gabra. This is said to be a liberal Democrat, who was a multiple minister and I think the most famous minister in Slovenia as regards education. So 85% is the limit, the lowest limit on which the programme is currently being paid, the education programme in private schools, not the building, not the maintenance, the investment maintenance of the building, which means that these 85% are not at all 85% of the total amount, but around 60% of the total amount, so private founders will still be setting up private schools because they love pedagogy, and from this they will still have their jobs. 15 per cent, followed by a constitutional decision from 2014, to complement the financing of the mandatory part of the programme, and then to conclude the 2020 Decision, this 15 per cent represents some 300,000 per year. This is actually the operation of one of the stronger cabinets of one mayor in Slovenia. Since 85% have been funded so far, 6 primary private schools have been created in Slovenia compared to 488 public schools. And because of this 15 percent, because of this 300,000 a year, you say there's going to be private schools now. I'm telling you, this isn't gonna happen. It can't be because so much idealism may be overcome by people because they love special pedagogics, but we don't have so much money, so I think maybe some school will be set up, and not much more. Let me answer your questions. The amendment of unrelated Members – everything they state is already in law, which would mean doubling what they state. Doubt about the quality of private schools, I think it's over. Take a look at the high school graduations, see the NPZ outcomes of primary private schools and you will see that they are good, excellent. In addition, the private school is, of course, controlled by the school inspectorate, at any time it can also enter private school and verify the quality or tracking of the goals. At any time, the Ministry may also supervise the implementation of the contract concluded with the private school, where it shall specify precisely why the funds allocated to it are used. Private schools send balances to the Ministry as well as to the congregations. So their work can be controlled all the time. We have heard that there is a distinction and a restriction that public school must accept everything. Of course, the public school must accept all the children from its surroundings, but if it is running out of space, the congregation must build up the area. Of course, a private school, like a high school that has enrollment restrictions because it has a lack or limited space, also limits space there, as it has limited entry as far as it can register. However, I know that priority is always given to brothers and sisters so that the family can be together so that parents are not burdened by attending more schools. You're talking about how different schoolchildren can be. They cannot differ, for the private school is also subject to the objectives set out in Article 2 of the ZOFVI, where equal treatment is required for all pupils. Therefore, once again, only the 2020 Constitutional Court Decision and the 2014 Decision are being implemented. The 2001 Decision shall be complied with. It is simply a very simple law, but it only executes what the Constitutional Court has imposed on the National Assembly. The fact is, if you're talking about the rule of law, this should have been done a long time ago. 15% is nothing, 300,000 is nothing for the country, and a lot for these parents, because poor parents also have children in these schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague Aljaž Kovacic, I would like to give you one more piece of information. My friend Koprivc said you spent 75 years building schools or a school system. I would like to inform you that in Ribnica the school has been at least since 1407 and that between 1812 and 1814, this school was also visited by Prešern. So it didn't all start in 1945. Procedurally, please, Bojana Muršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u66	Dear Vice President! I, however, sincerely thank you for your debate that was there. Therefore, you might suggest that you sit in the bench, discuss and explain this to all of us. There you will be able to say more, for as chairman you cannot comment on such things. Please sit in the bench and discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you so much for the heads-up. I've only told you the information that you'll know about it. I give my word to Aljaž Kovačič. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. I will also now just give Member Škrnjar the information that we have been understanding the same decision of 2014 all along. It obviously took you six years for the Constitutional Court to explain it to you once again. From the very beginning, when we came to Parliament, we say that the country is obliged to finance only a compulsory part of the programme. And that is why, while I agree with you that it is a matter of hearing, this constitutional decision gives so many years of resolution, but we, I think, within a few months of taking over the government, have also put the law into Parliament, which you have rejected, which has saved the constitutional decision, as it solves, in your opinion, it is probably the law that saves you. But we followed the ratio of 100 to 0. And today you claim that if that law were passed, it would be unconstitutional. I don't think so. For both 2014 and 2020, the Constitutional Court stated that the State is obliged to finance only a compulsory part of the programme. But all that is more, constitutionally speaking, is the good will of the state. And you've been saying all the time until 2020 that everything that is 100 plus 100 and is less is unconstitutional. Now the Constitutional Court has told you exactly what we have been telling you for years — that it is not true. By 2020, you have even claimed that there is no compulsory and extended programme in education, but it is only a publicly applicable programme. Now, the Constitutional Court has beautifully written down in 2020 that we have a mandatory programme as well as an extended programme. In short, you had the chance two years ago to resolve this constitutional decision, but you had no desire, because you wanted to give more. And even now, you can't expect us to just confirm something that goes against our position, which we also have recently written in the party, is that we are defending a public education that has done a lot all these years. He mentioned that we acted against education yesterday because we voted against the proposal of the President of the Republic regarding the Constitutional Judge. I myself have spoken to over 50 students who have attended both the law school in Maribor and the law school in Ljubljana, I have met many students through my work before, and I assure you, if you did, in quotations, a referendum on this professor among former students, I would probably vote for him fewer people than you did in the water law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. You want the Boxman? It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u70	Mr. Alaska, you've got it all wrong. I did not say that what the Constitutional Court proposes is unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court is the supreme authority and, of course, its decision must be respected. But I was saying it's unprofessional to talk about demarcating both programs. But here I have nothing to say when I speak to the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court says something, then I have to take that into account, and the dictates of this law are also now taken into account. This law speaks only of the mandatory programme at this moment, and it does not touch any extended programme. But our article only speaks of the need to increase this by 15% so that 100% of the payment of the mandatory programme is made. That's what we're talking about today. It's just this article. And I would like to ask you to read once again to add a new third paragraph, everything remains in Article 86 as it is, and only this paragraph, with which the decision of the Constitutional Court is implemented, is added to add this 15%. It reads: “In addition to the funds referred to in the preceding paragraph, a private school implementing a public primary education programme shall also be provided from the State budget or the local community budget for the implementation of a compulsory part of a public works programme with a difference to the level of funding provided by the State or the local community to the public school for the implementation of a compulsory part of a public education programme.” That's all it is. Today we are talking about this 15% mandatory programme. And that's what the Constitutional Court said, and this article just says that and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. More. I'll start the application procedure. Three reported. First he gets the word "magic." Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u72	Yes, thank you very much. Unfortunately, I no longer have much time available, but I would like once again to answer this dilemma about the mandatory extended programme. See, the fact is that the Constitutional Court has indeed talked about the mandatory programme and that this mandatory programme must be financed at 100%, it is said in its entirety. I could, I might want to argue with that decision, but I won't, because I think what the Constitutional Court says is sacred. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are not disputed, whether we agree with them or not. Although the SDS has sometimes acted very differently in the past, I understand, Mrs Škrynjar, that today you are also a little itchy and yet you wanted to comment on your opinion until the decision itself. On the other hand, on the other hand, the Constitutional Court did not mention in a word how much the extended programme should be financed. And if, until this decision of the Constitutional Court, a consensus existed in the company that both works were financed equally, but not at 100 %, it is also right to raise the issue of financing the extended programme, which was not otherwise mentioned by the Constitutional Court. That is why we believe that it is right for the Social Democrats to maintain a distinction, however, between financing public schools and private schools, so that this extended programme is no longer financed because there is no need for this if that compulsory part is financed at 100%. As it is said, the solution, which is thus equivalent to the financing of public and private schools, is unacceptable for us and we will go to the end, even the referendum, if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have written additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education on the basis of now two decisions of the Constitutional Court. Of course, the interpretations of these decisions may vary, as a colleague said a short time ago, that the law is not an exact knowledge, but that it is the right thing to interpret; but it is not so important now. However, if we are working for the rule of law, then I suppose – I am trying to go to the points where we agree – we all agree that unconstitutionality must be eliminated – we probably agree here – in this law. And then, if we defend the rule of law, then – in my knowledge of the law, I am not a lawyer, not to resent me – there is no referendum on the law that eliminates unconstitutionality. No referendum. In New Slovenia, as you know us, we always advocate public education, public health, because public health is what is financed by public funds. Of course, the contractor in public education can also be a private person. Thank God if we find someone to build a building and implement a compulsory primary school program, which is certified by the state – read the government, the ministry – nothing else works. For today's debate, I read again the opinion of a very interesting Slovenian lawyer. In particular, I have searched the left political spectrum, because you do not mind me, and in many of the saved discussions I have found a very good discussion by Dr. Andraz Terška, Dr. Andraz Teršek, because you all know him. What he wrote will be taken away – I hope that I will not be offended by the doctor – but he wrote this on the third anniversary of the failure to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, said December 2017. “Of course, private schools in modern social and constitutional democracy, based on the doctrine of fundamental human rights and freedoms, are permitted to establish a value of freedom, political equality and legal equality.” Well, private schools are allowed to establish, by our constitutional arrangements. Those who want or want to break the constitutional order, then I'll have to cancel it when there's another constitution. And that's clearly what Dr. Andraz Teršek says. And, of course, they can be established by anyone, anyone who has the resources and the legal, I stress, the legitimate purpose that the state again considers, no one else, the state. I emphasize once again, anyone, me, you, other people, anyone. Regrettably, the vast majority of people barely read and study the subjects discussed in the public space, especially in the daily party policy. People rarely delve into questions that they would like to say out loud, so they speak superficially and are bound to error, too often in total ignorance. The concreteness of their beliefs, the general naivety resulting from the chronic lack of thinking ability, of course, also contributes to this, and the amazing sensitivity of the human brain to errors in selective memory, lies, and manipulation. That's right, Dr. Tershek. “Watching TV and reading short newspaper or online witches does not provide information and knowledge. That's the way it is in today's society. The consequences of the fact that this is the case are also evident in direct connection with the topic of State funding for public and private schools. The state has apparently been overwhelmed by the complete confusion of almost all people, that the current controversy concerns whether the country from the budget and with the money of all taxpayers will fund all private schools and do so in the same way, to the same extent and amount as in public schools. This, as has been said and apparently, has been made decisively by the continuous and uniform media use of simplified and therefore by the very misleading syntax of private school funding." That's Dr. Andraz Teršek. And here we have a problem, financing private schools. When you say that, then of course, yeah, the state will give money to the private. This is totally wrong – both Mr Andraz Teršek – without an emergency addition, what funding and whose private schools. It's just private school funding. But the people took the simplistic and misleading syntagma literally. Private school funding. The explosion of feelings and contentions at the border of hatred was, as usual, perfect when the method of media reporting on this topic to the people in front of the eyes revealed an almost categorical thesis that it was again an episode of the historical conflict between the state and the church, the RC – unbelievable – in which the state did not give the church what it claimed it was going to, and the church demanded what it was not justified to do, so did Dr. Andraž Teršek. From here on, constructive and productive and universal debate is no longer possible, is irrational. People, representatives of one side and the other, loudly or silently shouting, listen and hear no. The public is monitoring this cheerleading, and so is always, even in this law. “It is decisive that it is only by means of a decision of the Constitutional Court that children's rights to education may be protected without discrimination.” Pika. This is a phrase that I literally read from the column from Dr. Andraz Terška's comment. This issue, which directly concerns the failure to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, is not simply a matter of state funding for private schools, of all private schools and of all private schools, the problem is simple, as is easily understood by the Constitutional Court's decision No. UI-269/12. The problem which is a constitutional problem, of course social and party policy, is the unfulfilled decision of the Constitutional Court, which states that public schools and those private schools which, following an autonomous decision of the State also implement the same compulsory education programme as public schools do, or otherwise, if private schools, because they have been left behind by the State, are also implementing a programme equivalent to that of compulsory education carried out by public schools, which is prescribed and determined by the State, then, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, the State must finance both equally and to the same extent. Pika. That's Dr. Andraz Teršek. I hope he won't mind that I quickly took his, in my opinion, very good comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič gets the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you. Given that the coalition Members are talking about the rule of law, I wonder why you did not confirm our proposal, since the government of Marjan Sarca, when it resolved the constitutional decision, it is said that 100 per cent of the financing of the mandatory programme has been extended as far as the state wants. And, dear colleague Horvath, you have just read the opinion of lawyer Terška – he is also talking about it. What is compulsory in public education is paid by the state, as well as in private. Now, if you find me an expert who'll tell me if a student in a private school doesn't attend extended stay and that's why he won't be able to advance to a higher class, I don't think it exists. Thus, what is compulsory is paid, which you must participate in, and prolonged stay is not compulsory, since parents decide whether or not to enroll in it, both in public and in private. That is why the Constitutional Court was clear here in 2014 as well as in 2020. And also a colleague of Horvath, who was quoting a lawyer about the establishment of schools. I wonder if anyone in Slovenia is forbidden to set up a private school. I don't think so. Anyone wants to. But the interesting thing was, whoever has the resources, said a colleague of Horvath. And now I wonder who has the resources and at the same time expects the funding of the country. Yes, but if the school has the resources, then why would it need funding from the state? In short, as I have already said, we will not support this proposal in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In this part of the session, I thank all the debaters for the proper discussions. The amendments will be decided on Thursday in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item — Third defence of the draft law on the national demographic composition within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance of Mags to further explain the proposal. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before you, the National Demographic Fund Act is ready for third treatment. We have been talking about the demographic fund in Slovenia for more than 9 years and discussions have taken place for more than 9 years. In 2013, a proposal was put forward in the then PPIZ Act to prepare a specific fund under the PPIZ. And at the time of the then government of Janez Janša, this proposal was adopted. We have also been talking about this law for 9 months and 9 months, various discussions are taking place both in the National Assembly and outside the National Assembly. In short, a broad public debate, an expert debate, public debate, all the public, all the stakeholders involved in the demographic fund, has been held on this and this subject. These are the older ones who are now receiving a pension, and these are the young ones. And that's why this law connects for generations. It connects them by ensuring a safe age with the income from the demographic fund. For this reason, this fund will represent one of the sources for pension financing. One of the sources for pension financing. And intergenerational solidarity is the basis for this fund to actually work towards providing as many pensions as possible. On the other hand, it will also provide funds for older people and will also provide funds for younger people, for family policy and for scholarships. This makes it easy to connect different generations and in fact ensures that the management and management of this fund will take place in a transparent way, in a way that, of course, those who will manage will be responsible for state property and will, of course, always work for the benefit of all generations. Here, of course, we can say that we are managing state property. And all of these investments, which the demographic fund will have, are divided into strategic funds that will provide a stability fund and, on the other hand, the so-called economy, which will provide more than strategic returns and, of course, incomes for the demographic fund, which will take into account the average yield rate in the last years of SDH, which is 5%, will amount to 1.4 billion per year in 15 years, or that means, of course, that there will be important money for pension goods coming from this title. On the other hand, we must also say that the fund is designed to allocate 40% of the dividends and 60% of the purchases to strengthen the assets, 40% of the dividends and 40% of the purchases to finance the pension fund and, of course, 10% will also be earmarked for young people, for older people and for scholarships or for family policy. In the process, the proposer has adopted proposals to the public and professional proposals and proposes that the National Assembly adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u80	Your Honor! The legal obligation to set up a demographic reserve fund was set at 31 December 2015. The fact is, every day of delays in the formation of this fund wastes time within which funds of the Fund should be nobled. But what the current government is offering us is not the right way. It is only a retrial of the largest ruling party to get property management under one roof and under cover of pension care to sell everything that is still valuable in this country. This is also confirmed by the many comments received by this law, but this time the government does not want to listen to the people to whom it should serve to work for its own good. Instead, it insists uncompromisingly on an agreement that will benefit only the ruling policy. Therefore, today all those who really care about pensioners should vote against this law. Voice against--what does it mean? Vote against, first of all, the vote against looting by state-owned enterprises, second of all, is the vote against dismantling the current system of state property management, which we have built in the last decade, thirdly, the vote against the sale of EUR 9 billion of state-owned assets, and fourthly, the vote against the immediate use of funds to be accumulated for the next generations of pensioners. The views of the SAB, the social liberals, on the obligation to create a demographic fund are clear throughout. The assets of the fund must remain owned by the State and can only be managed by the Fund. The funds of the Fund must be allocated only to pensions. The Fund’s funds must be accumulated for at least 20 years, and it is unacceptable to spend funds on the other hand. The fund must have additional resources provided, and this is money from the use of two natural Slovenian valuables - water and wood. All of this is what we want in the SAB party to provide both current pensioners and young people who will retire in 20, 30, 40 years, stable pension resources today and, of course, 40 years from now. If the disciplined majority of the National Assembly confirms the demographic fund, as envisioned by the government of Janez Janša, we call on all citizens and citizens here to contribute their vote to the legislative referendum. We call upon them to repeat to this government their distrust, as expressed in the Water Act. This is their right and duty. Our citizens have already shown that they know how to protect water from this deaf government and the extended coalition machine. And we believe that they will equally protect the future of their pensions. In the SAB, we will vote against the law that is harmful to the country for the pension system and its long-term stability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The demographic fund is the national institution that Slovenia needs. On the income side of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, there will be no stable resources in the future, both by content and by height. The revenue side with its own dynamics will not be able to follow the increasing cost needs. Under the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Capital Society should be transformed into an independent autonomous demographic reserve fund by the end of 2015. That didn't happen. Since 2000, the State budget has been legally responsible for balancing the revenue and expenditure of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and for allowing it to operate in a balanced manner. The obligation of the State budget to cover the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the institution remains in the applicable pension law. The obligation to cover the deficit is not linked to the specific rights of the public pension system, but rather to the unspecified and variable obligation of the state budget. The apparent balanced budget of the institution therefore poses a latent threat to the balance of the state budget. In recent years, Desus has taken care of one of the sources of funding. In the Slovenian State Holding Act of March 2014, members of Desusa achieved that 10% of the purchases from the sale of state assets were to be made for the financing of the demographic fund. By the end of August 2020, €159 million had been raised in this account for the transfer to the Fund. In the previous mandate of the National Assembly, the Desus Group, on 30 January 2018, introduced a law on the Slovenian Demographic Reserve Fund into the legislative procedure. The government withdrew a month and a half later, so the legislative process was closed. The main reason for the inability to make decisions on this important institution is the divisiveness between privatisation ambitions and the provision of a social state. Opponents of the current concept of the demographic fund point to internal contradictions expressed in conflict between the development interests of fund-owned enterprises and their financing and the provision of a high capital and dividend return for co-financing of future pensions. This risk cannot be denied, but it must be borne in mind that this is a conceptual property of such organisations, which must be controlled by owners and operators. In the second half of 2019, from August to November, in the framework of the previous coalition, Members of Desus participated in the drafting of the Demographic Fund Act. At that time, there were two basic assumptions, the transfer of the Capital Society to the demographic fund and the 20-year accumulation period. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, five variants of the size and structures of the initial investment values were prepared. For each variant, future returns simulations were made, taking into account the different yield rates and the 20-year accumulation period. Two main shortcomings have been highlighted: the size of the assets of the demographic decision has in any case been too low, as well as the size of its co-financing of the pension treasury in the coming period. Since then, another radical change has occurred — the epidemic has radically changed the state’s public finances, as its consequences cannot be mitigated and limited without the use of heavy weapons, high debt. This, ladies and gentlemen, must be taken into account because it is an irrefutable reality. The different scenarios of time dynamics of both filling the demographic fund and drawing on its returns are set in a completely different and, above all, completely unexpected context. Denial of reality means non-recognition of objective facts. In our case, Desusov, this led to a revision of the position on the necessity of the accumulation period, to the need for the accumulation of funds from the future demographic fund and to the partial use of incomes to co-finance the pension treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. It is Yuri Lepo, who will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! As you know, at the 75th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed the proposal of the Left, LMŠ, SD and SAB that the National Assembly for the Government Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund should sign a consultative referendum. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have already warned the coalition on the proposal for a referendum that, in the event that the bill will not continue to be discussed, we will not support it at the referendum. In the parliamentary group of the bill with such a traveller as the government's ignorance and the ruling coalition to public debate and negotiations with key stakeholders, and in addition, the bill advocated the collapse of social dialogue and the withdrawal of workers' representatives from the Economic and Social Council, we simply cannot support it. We note that this is not only a government proposal or a proposal by a ruling coalition, but a law that should benefit from broad social support, especially those most affected. The proposed solutions are not only satisfied with employees' representatives, but also with employers who have estimated that, due to the strong impact of the policy, the proposed solutions do not follow the estimated long-term needs of the pension fund and will hardly respond to the expectation of an increase in the burden of harmonisation of pensions. The proposed solutions were also addressed by the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia. It seems quite irresponsible to us that neither social dialogue nor professional debate are taking place on the proposed solutions. Most economic experts, both left and right, remind us that they want better solutions and that the debate about the demographic fund should move away from who and how it will control this fund, to the question of what the purpose of this fund should be, what assets should be and, above all, how to be filled. These are key questions to which this proposal does not offer satisfactory answers or appropriate solutions. Because it represents only a pragmatic political compromise between the interests of the SDS party, which has managed to impose most of its proposals on coalition partners, and the fines with which they have satisfied themselves or justify their support. We have recently been able to see again in the media from the fifth withdrawn argument, by which one of the party's presidents justified the decision to support the law. Unfortunately, none of them hold serious judgment, since the Supervisory Board, the National Assembly and the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Demography, which has not yet come to life, have no role to play in the functioning of the National Demographic Fund and in the enforcement of the law, as it has claimed. The solutions proposed do not follow only the basic purpose, I repeat, of the basic purpose of the demographic reserve fund, namely the co-financing of compulsory pension and disability insurance. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, it is therefore recalled that the concept of the law itself is more based on the concentration of government and the availability of income from this property, which are not the most appropriate to ensure the safe age of both current generations of beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance and not of future generations. It is clear from the relations established by the law that the national demographic fund will provide two thirds of the money for current consumption and only 40% for accumulation or investment in so-called portfolio capital investments, which will be the sole contributors. These returns, however, will not only finance pension bills, but also a number of policies that touch older people and families, which should be funded by the state budget by now. Not to mention that the SOD or SDH as its successor still has obligations to pay compensation. In addition, it is worth noting that the National Demographic Fund is the owner of capital investments in state-owned enterprises, which means that as a legal and active owner it will also have to finance possible bad business or will have to provide funds for their recapitalisation, for further development and could also be listed. This will also reduce his income, which will be the only source of funding not only for the pension fund but also for the state budget. In the Group of Non-Related Members of the draft law, we cannot support it either because the ruling coalition continues to be ignorant and has not prepared a proposal for amendments for the third reading to address at least one of the mentioned dilemmas, which is pointed out by a number of stakeholders and who are professionally standing. However, as it appears today, they are not politically acceptable mainly to the largest customer who has a national demographic fund of his own. Otherwise, in the Group of Unbound Members, we will support only future solutions following the commitments of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which unequivocally and clearly stipulates that compulsory pension insurance is financed by insurers, employers, the Republic of Slovenia and the demographic reserve fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u86	Good day to you all, especially to the Minister. As has already been said, we are in the third reading of the National Demographic Fund Act. As has been pointed out many times before, we are in Slovenia, unfortunately, in the very top of the European countries after the ageing population. According to United Nations projections, Slovenia is ranked among the 10 oldest countries in the world. In addition, every 5 inhabitants are over 65 years of age, so specific systemic solutions are more than obvious for our nation. The saga with the demographic fund has been dragged for some time. In the rest of the opposition, they continue to destroy as good a bill as this law on the National Demographic Fund for their propaganda. All those who have blocked all the efforts that have been put into this law have immediately blocked the future of our oldest cousins who have created and built our homeland. On such matters, I wonder whether they care at all about the decent life and future of our people or only foreigners and newcomers who will increase their electoral base. It is essential that the restructuring mechanism of the financing of current and future generations of Slovenian pensioners be enabled to give them a dignified autumn of life. The transformation of our national silver, according to the Slovenian state holding company into a national demographic fund, is an excellent solution. Ownership must be concentrated so that investments can be managed productively and more rationally and can be financed by our Slovenian pensioners. If we want all of this to work in practice and, as a result, take care of our people, the demographic fund must act independently in managing investment. This law will also make it more transparent to see who has any powers and powers and transparently manage all investments. We absolutely undermine this bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u88	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on the National Demographic Fund. The fact is that Slovenia needs a demographic fund and the National Assembly has discussed the establishment of a demographic fund several times, but so far has failed. We cannot go beyond the fact that Slovenia should establish a demographic fund already in 2012. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act already provided for it to be established in 2013. This attempt has failed. Article 79 of the Slovenian State Holding Act then provided for the transformation of the Capital Society into an autonomous demographic fund by the end of 2015 at the latest. Neither has this matter been realized and not carried out. Several governments, the predecessors of the government of Janez Janša, have failed to establish a demographic fund, even though the law provides for it. One of the main priorities of this coalition was the establishment of a demographic fund. The proposed law aims to concentrate all the country's investments in one place, with some specific exceptions. The main solutions to this law, which we have on the table today, are the transformation of the Slovenian State Holding Company into a new company, that is to say the National Demographic Fund, where ownership and management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia are concentrated in one place, the transfer of all investments of the Republic of Slovenia with certain exceptions and investments of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in the Traglav Insurance, the Real Estate Pension and Disability Insurance Fund to the National Demographic Fund, the accession of the Capital Society and the Society for Consulting and Management, and the transfer of property and rights and obligations of the Company for the management of bank receivables to the National Demographic Fund. With the establishment of a national demographic fund, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the pressure on public finances will ease while providing additional funding for decent pensions. The importance of the demographic fund is also that the state budget is burdened not only with regular payments to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, but also in times of crisis when the budget is even more burdensome. Under the proposed law, the management of the National Fund should be based on the principles of independence, which ensure independence, independence and non-political action. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the implementation and implementation of this law means a positive impact both for the current pensioner and for all future pensioners. We are confident that the implementation of this law will make the Slovenian state property more successful in governance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that even after the entry into force of this law, the pension system in Slovenia will remain solid and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are confident that after the entry into force of this law, the pensionable cash system will be more stable. For all of this, we will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u90	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The demographic fund is just a drop into the sea of the pension fund. Because we all know what the demographic picture is like here. Slovenia is considered one of the EU Member States in which the expected demographic changes or ageing of the population will have the most negative impact on public finances, especially on pension and health allowance, both indirectly and directly on the state budget. It is clear from the above that we must do something in this area, and we have been bound by legislation for many years to establish a demographic fund. However, the question is, in what way and in whose account. The demographic fund, as envisioned by the ruling SDS party, is in no way in line with the purpose of the demographic fund, such as co-financing of the pension fund or long-term public financial sustainability. Instead of setting up a fund to manage state property and to nominate it in the long run, the government or the ruling party of the SDS has drawn up a law on how to acquire and sell as soon as possible what else we have left. The National Demographic Fund Act does not provide for any accumulation period, but provides for the immediate regular payment of funds for the purposes of family policy, the provision of elderly and pensions. For long-term care, we will need about 300 million euros a year, but we know that the state budget is already bringing about a good billion euros a year to the pension fund. The demographic fund, as the government has envisioned, will not be a fund for the management of state property, but rather a fund for the sale of state property. It is the concentration of all state property under one roof and the management and control of the Fund gives the political parties and the government the control of the Fund and does not guarantee the involvement of representatives of the labour sector whose social security at the time of age is actually to be provided by the Fund. The demographic fund is also to be managed by the DARS as proposed by the government. The coalition, however, did not only stop at these investments, but also included an amendment to the new 86a. Article which provides that following the establishment of the Fund, Slovenian Railways, Slovenian State Forests, Kobilna Lipica, Official Gazette, Blue Insurance Office, STA, Economic Company for Water Management in the influential area of energy exploitation of the Lower Sava and SID Bank will also come under its auspices. This is a fundamental intervention in the ownership and management of these companies. As we have been stressing all the time, we are advocates of a comprehensive pension reform in the LMŠ to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. Part of this reform can also be the pension demographic fund, as part of a response to demographic trends, which is expected to contribute to reducing the pension gap. The Fund must be portfolio-based and based on fundamental principles such as profitability, security, liquidity, economy, flexibility, transparency and, above all, independence. The pension-demographic fund alone will not solve this problem, so we need a comprehensive pension reform. Throughout the entire legislative process of this government proposal, we have been working in the LMŠ all the time to exclude the most harmful provisions from the law and to propose more effective solutions, but unfortunately the coalition has rejected all our proposals to improve the law. It is also not negligible that the Government has sent the law to the National Assembly without any dialogue and has coordinated with the social partners and other stakeholders that the draft law has been torn apart by the Anti-Corruption Commission and also the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Therefore, we cannot support such a proposal, which will be harmful to public finances and to all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, in the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The National Demographic Fund Act, which we will consider for the last time today, and tomorrow we will vote on it, is the long-term most harmful bill proposed by this government. With its implementation, the government would be able to change the structure of the pension system in the long term by politically seizing the last reserves intended for future pension insurance and their assets and bringing them in for current use, undefined other objectives and, of course, pre-election candy. For future generations, it will take away the guarantee of their pensions. The government concept of the demographic fund is so much different from the professional foundations and political commitments of the past decades that it cannot be called a multi-billion-dollar and multi-generational robbery. Since 25 years ago, the then rulings have reduced their contributions to employers, the pension fund has not collected enough to cover all pension needs and the need to pay from the budget. This problem was taken over by then’s ruling people, and its resolution has been postponed to generations to come. At that time, selfish decisions were taken that allowed short-term benefits to generations of rulings and left negative consequences in the form of pension reforms and uncertainties to their children. The demographic fund should thus represent a new third source of pension money, so that it does not depend solely on the contributions paid and the ability of the budget to have sufficient pensions in 20 years. The number of pensioners is rising and will soon exceed the number of employees financing this system. The third source of the pension fund is necessary, as the budget covers an ever-increasing annual deficit of STIZ. Within 15 to 20 years, the situation will become unsustainable. It would be necessary to act now. It's about whether we're going to secure reserves today, increase their value, guarantee pensions for future generations, or whether we're going to tell young generations that we're going to spend our entire heritage for ourselves, and they're going to pay their own and our pensions, and on top of that, let their generation pay off the loans that our generation has hired. This dilemma should not be at all if we have something of conscience, of course. This law does not solve any of the problems that you should have. There is no long-term accumulation for the future, no additional resources to fill the fund, no adequate expertise and supervision of the Fund's work. On the other hand, the law is full of wrong solutions: the simultaneous exhaustion of 60% of all income generated for current consumption and electoral gifts, the transfer of all state assets to the fund, and the abolition of the entire system from the State Property Management Strategy. Instead of a demographic fund, today’s rulings see only political prey. There's nothing to be ashamed of. On the contrary, they're still proud of kidnapping the last reserve and spending it for themselves. Dear colleagues, we are aware that the relevant demographic fund has not been established so far. It should also be said that the most important reason for this failure is that some have failed to control their selfishness and shortsightedness. In all the legislative proposals, there was a tendency to further exhaust the Capital Society, which should become a demographic reserve fund. If this law announces, this selfishness will prevail, we will continue to use what we should accumulate for the future, despite the fact that an alternative solution exists. Social Democrats and partners have come up with a good proposal in which we have avoided the temptations of selfishness. The rulers firmly rejected it without doubt and without a proper explanation. The government proposal represents such a departure from the generation agreement on the establishment of the pension system that it is not possible to imagine that it would be adopted without broad agreement and in-depth prior treatment. Of course, something such a government has not done in preparing this law. It even avoided dialogue with the Economic and Social Council and fully ignored the warnings of trade unions, professions, anti-corruption commissions that this law opens up a range of corruption risks and lower professional standards. The decision to make such a change that will affect everything in the next 50 years must not be taken without the consent of the people. For the last time, social democrats, respected colleagues and colleagues, we propose to remove from the law at least the most harmful solution, the one about the simple exhaustion of the fund. For the last time, however, we call on all fellow Members and Members of Parliament, who will decide tomorrow to give a good thought to how you will influence future generations by your vote. The current solution instead of the demographic reserve creates a permanent intergenerational conflict, the price of which will be paid by all who hope for pensions in 20 or 30 years. Of course, that's the majority of us. So tomorrow will be the last opportunity for this immensely harmful law to end its procedure. If some among us at that time realize that this proposal goes too far in their selfishness, it will cause future generations such damage and uncertainty that the supporters of this law will rightly create a permanent stain on their own behalf. Dear colleagues and colleagues, each of us has his own name and name and tomorrow we will also put them to the vote on this law. So tomorrow will be the last chance to really vote for all generations and reject this harmful law. If that does not happen, we cannot surrender, the Social Democrats will join the Slovenian trade unions and all those who will demand that the law at the referendum be decided by the people [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u93	Dear Member, time is running fast.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u94	But the people did not allow themselves to have access to water a few days ago, so we will support the efforts of the Social Democrats for the referendum. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. On Sunday we were able to watch live as the people stood on their backs and said to the government: “No! Let us not let our waters be taken!" The same promise is made by the government of Janez Janša to the demographic fund. Trade unions have already announced the procedures for calling the referendum if this harmful law is adopted. They have all the right reasons for the referendum. The demographic fund is expected to perform two functions, according to the Government. If we read it with emphasis on “demographic” it is intended to provide the pension fund with the necessary funding from long-term care to the raising of the lowest pensions, in short, the comprehensive targeting of all pensioners' needs. If we read it with emphasis on the “demographic fund”, it promises that state property will be managed better than it is at the moment. Unfortunately, none of these communication lines of the government of Janez Janša hold, as we have been accustomed to in the year and a half of this government. For the previous year alone, the transfer from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to the pension fund amounted to €1.15 billion. There's so much money in the pension fund that's running out of contributions so he can pay off his liabilities to the insurers. An additional 300 million euros would be needed each year, according to the Government's assessment, to finance long-term care, while more than 10,000 pensioners are waiting in the beds in the old people's homes. At the same time, we have a poor half of the pensioners, which are 240 thousand who have to go with less than 600 euros of pension. If we put all these expenses together, we can see a picture showing that today we would need at least €2 billion of investment or public expenditure every year for a decent age. How is this handled by the government’s demographic fund Janez Janša? So you don't. EUR 56 million is to be credited to the pension fund under the demographic fund in 2021. This is €56 million compared to €2 billion in needs. Therefore, the argument that the demographic fund will cover the minuses in the pension register does not drink water. The only way to provide additional resources to the pension fund is to raise the contribution rate for employers and bring the level of contributions to employers to the level paid by workers. The minus in the pension register was only created since 1996 when the contribution rate for employers practically halved. We did not get a booming job, but we did get a hole in the public pension fund and a huge outflow of civil billions into tax havens. A few days ago, the National Assembly considered the initiative of the Left to raise the employer contribution rate to a fairer level by 0.8 percentage points each year, which would lead to up to €560 million of new income in cash, stable additional resources that must be needed after a four-year period. We have not enjoyed any great sympathy among the majority of Members with this law, although this is the only way to secure a pension fund. Which brings me further to the issue of public property management. It is very obvious that the government of John Janša does not want to manage state property but simply wants to subdue it. We are talking about 8.6 billion euro of state silver, which belongs to all the people in this country, and in particular belongs to the workers and workers who created it with their hands and their brains. But it was them that John Janša’s government expelled from the new governing bodies, as set out in the law. Labour representatives will not have a voice in the management of the orchards of their own part. The door to privatisation is also wide open, which, according to what has been seen under this government in the past year and a half, is not only considered an open door of risk, but an open door to the future fact. One year, the new authorities, set up entirely by the coalition majority, will work with state silver, whatever they want, because they will not be bound by any basis, what ladies and gentlemen can privatise and what not. In Levica, of course, we will oppose this law, we will actively join the referendum initiative if this law is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Shirtzel, dear colleagues and colleagues! We regret that in Novi Slovenija, we cannot agree on some key issues in this Chamber in the temple of Slovenian democracy. For example, what kind of economic model do we want to develop in our country, whether it is close to us, I will say, the Western free socio-market economy or we want to drive backwards, that is, back to socialism, and we are defending the plan economy. Some simply mention social or state silver in irrational debates, but they forget to say that this state silver unfortunately has a period of time. The business entity, which was, say, in 2008, I will not specifically mention it, worth €3 billion, today you do not even get EUR 300 million for it, which means that the silver came from old iron. Now, in particular, for the third reading of the National Demographic Fund Act. First, let me say that the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will support it. Let me remind you that in December 2012 we adopted the ZPIZ-2, so-called little or, if you want, Vision's pension reform, I think, even unanimously. In this law we have also adopted a commitment that the National Demographic Fund should be operational with effect from 1 January 2015, whatever its name. So we're six years behind schedule. It'll be seven years soon. It is precisely because the laws need to be respected, and because of consensus then four other coalition parties we have entered into a coalition contract as our coalition commitment of four parties to establish a national demographic fund, it is said that we will write the National Demographic Fund Act. Moreover, this fund would have its seat in Maribor, as well as its demographic office, would also have its seat in Maribor. Perhaps it is a point of dispute for whom, because everything must be in Ljubljana, everything must be centralised. Let's not let anything good go to eastern Slovenia. Maybe someone's against it, we're not, we're for decentralization. The European Commission has been warning us for many years that we are the fastest growing society in Europe. We have done virtually nothing in this area until recently, but nothing. Here from this city I say very clearly that the national demographic fund will not, in no way will it save the pension fund, not possible. The pension box has an annual level of more than €6 billion. Once we have this state property that we would place under the roof of the national demographic fund and manage it optimally, if we get 100 million from dividends for this pension fund, maybe 200, we can be satisfied. According to our understanding, understanding of New Slovenia, pension reforms should actually be undertaken first. But like you said, when it comes to coalition, when it comes to negotiating partners, then you listen to your partner. That's why we said we're going to set up a national demographic fund, because, indeed, there is a fundamental pension reform, which has already been pointed out in some way in the White Paper, which we are investigating, takes at least four years or even goes beyond the mandate. New Slovenia understands that the national demographic fund, a fund for all generations, of course also for family policy, for youth policy, is for scholarships. Because if we have a good family policy, if we have educated people, all of this means that we will have more taxpayers, pension payers, and that if educated people have a good salary, they will have more to pay for the pension fund. On the table, we have a law that actually leaves the city in a place of control, defines the city with every opposition. Such solutions are not common in this National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, this coalition is moving some things. We invest 120 million dollars in public education after 10 years, building old people's homes and so on. The Long-Terms Act - after 20 years we have it on the table. And if we don't adopt this law tomorrow, I'm saying it won't be for another 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u100	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In the third context, we are talking again about the Proposal for a Law on the National Demographic Fund. Let me remind you that its key purpose is to establish a special fund with a view to co-financing the difference between income and pension fund expenditure. However, the establishment of such a fund was already legally envisaged as part of the pension reform in 2012. The fact is that our pension system is unabated without an annual budget infusion, and a poor demographic picture is only weakening in the long run, so it will be necessary in the near future to renovate the pension system. We see the establishment of the demographic fund as an introductory move, but at the same time we note that such a fund will not be able to fully address the pension gaps. In the SMC, we agree with the basic concept of the bill, which, at the same time as the primary objective of co-financing the pension fund as a secondary solution, also introduces a more rational management of state assets. This is a concentrated management of all types of investment in line with good practice guidelines, corporate governance and the provision of measures to strengthen governance integrity. The new demographic fund will achieve its objectives - these objectives are to increase the value of investments and to ensure their maximum return - while respecting all of the following governance principles: the principles of independence - this means that the fund will carry out its investment independently and independently - the principles of care and accountability, the principles of transparency, the principles of economy and the principles of security, dispersion and profitability. Due to the transparent processes and the composition of the supervisory and management bodies to be appointed by the Government and the National Assembly, we cannot agree with the obvious that the establishment of a national demographic fund is a step towards reducing transparency in public property management. For we believe that the truth is quite different. The draft law provides that the Fund will manage its investments on the basis of the country's capital investment management strategy, which will contain precise criteria, criteria and direction for the management of state assets, and will be adopted by this National Assembly. On the basis of the strategy, the Government will then adopt each year a fund's investment management plan. As the operation of the newly established fund with such documents will be clearly defined, management risks will be minimised and the possibility of any ad hoc privatisation will be completely eliminated, with which opposition representatives, opponents of this law, continue to be intimidated. The country's capital investment management strategy will clearly define what domestic capital strategic and non-strategic investments and, in addition, financial investments and investment properties are. Depending on the category of investments, how and how much the Fund will be in charge of certain business decisions. In the SMC Group, we estimate that the future national demographic fund is designed in the spirit of intergenerational solidarity, as through a more efficient and transparent way of managing public property, it will allow co-financing of the financial gap between income and pension fund expenditure. Therefore, Members of the Modern Centre Party will once again support this bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2021. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Secretary, did you want a word? Would you like to do it first? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I would like to explain some of the issues, opinions or views expressed in the presentation of the groups of Members. I certainly do not agree with some, first of all, that it is a sale of state property. With the establishment, operation and substantive provisions laying down the method, composition of supervisory authorities, administrations and so on, there are no grounds for the sale. From this point of view, I must say that in this case it is simply an thesis that is not based on any real basis. The other thing I would like to say is that it will come from transferring assets to the demographic fund to consumption for current consumption. Simply based on the provisions of the law, which provide, inter alia, that 40% of the dividends and 60% of the purchases are earmarked for the accumulation of the fund, is to increase the assets of the fund. This simply does not hold up and this difficulty, if I can call it that, either this opinion or this statement or these views simply do not have any substantive basis. The next thing I'd like to talk about is that this is about any selfishness or anything like that. I think this is a long-term approach to resolving pension problems or providing pension funding. And here I can say that no government has done anything since 2013 to establish any additional source of pension money. Proposals were made by the parliamentary groups to set up the Funds. These proposals were made by SD and SAB, Desus and SDS. And all the governments have rejected them so far. I didn't go in the right order, I apologize, but I'm just listing the suggestions that were given. Look, nothing's done here so far. That it's about being selfish? Look, I'm sorry, this is exactly where it's going to be solved and it's addressing the problems we're having with financing this. You say, of course, that the SDS will subdue state property and so on. On what basis? On the basis that the Supervisory Board has 11 members and that 7 appoints or proposes the National Assembly. And that the National Assembly should make it possible for five of these members to propose on the proposal of the parliamentary groups. Members and Members of Parliament are representatives of the people, of whom you say they have not actually cooperated. Here I appeal to you to do so, of course. Among other things, there are representatives of the Retirement Association, the Youth Council and four appointed by the Government. So I'm sorry, but I don't know here what are the provisions on which these problems you actually have in the positions of the Members. I can't agree with that here. The next thing you want to talk about when you make an effort to provide additional resources to finance pension funds is about a black picture of pensions. Pensions have increased the most in the last year and a half so far. And there's not this black picture that's gonna run out of money now and so on. Yeah, the budget that always goes into the pension fund, simplified, as much as it runs out. And the pension is the right thing to do. For this reason, to address the matter in such a way that it simply shows how the end and the end of the world will be, see this is not based on any real foundations. The next thing I want to say here is actually the structure of this property. If we are talking about strategic investments on the one hand, then we can, of course, also talk about non-strategic investments, financial investments, real estates and so on, bringing a certain return and actually managing this fund and providing an additional source of pensions, we are talking about an additional resource for pensions. And if they've created this property that we're talking about today, then it's certainly justified that the generations that have created this property are also entitled to the income or profits that this fund will bring and that will be paid to the PIZ in the form of dividends. More. Here we also want to make a fund that will be able to manage the global investment policy through its management. The Norwegian Fund is similar, and you often talk about it in these debates. You're talking about some authorities breaking up the bill and so on. The proposals of the Legal and Legislative Service are taken into account, the Commission's proposals to prevent corruption are taken into account and the proposals of the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia are taken into account as far as possible. We've done interviews on this. From this point of view, look at me with these thesis, opinions, opinions and so on I just can't agree, not because I wouldn't want to, but because they don't have a real basis. Secondly, of course, what is the selfishness of the managers of the current funds to have such great reservations that the current funds would be included in the demographic fund, in one fund where this asset would be managed in a single way. So we can talk about selfishness here in a very broad and very precise way. From this point of view, look, I actually also propose, given the structure of investments that provide stability on the one hand, on the other hand, they also provide certain yields, these stable investments are investments of railways, energy, transport, if I mention Luka Koper here. Who here imagines, when we're talking about strategic investments, some kind of sale. Who in the current government ever said anything about a sale on this? Never. The question is at all, what is the sale, if we are also speaking from a professional point of view or from a professional point of view, that it is any political prey. No, no, no. This isn't about political exploitation. Once again, I've told you who's proposing the most supervisors. It's a constituency. And the National Assembly, each time. That it's not a long-term strategy. Look, the long-term strategy is just -- I agree here with those who mentioned pension reform, but this is one of the sources of the long-term strategy. So from this point of view, of course, the question is that this is a contribution to the long-term strategy. On the one hand, you reject this long-term strategy, honourable Members, and some, on the other hand, you say, should be taking action now or already too late. Here in these words I see a certain duality. Yes, we must act now. It is now necessary to act on the basis of a demographic picture, if it is not too late, because in 2040 and 2050 there will be insufficient workers to finance the pension system. And if there's not enough workers, then of course this pension system will need more and more resources, and one of the additional resources is also the assets of the demographic fund. Things are pretty simple from this angle. And once again, this law has been coordinated with the coalition, it has been coordinated with stakeholders, it has been talked about for 9 years in the country, it has in fact been coordinated with the professional public. It is based on intergenerational solidarity and this intergenerational solidarity that dividends, profits, whatever the case, are shared both in the pension scheme, both for young and young families and for scholarships, that these young people will create greater added value, they will bring greater benefits, and that contributions to the pension fund will also increase, and of course part of this is also devoted to preserving only the property to make this property noble, so that it is increasingly stable. I would have so many honourable Members and Members in response to some of the views and opinions that have been presented so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u104	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members and Mr Minister with co-workers, welcome! Does the government's proposal for a demographic fund mean better governance of state property and does it mean protecting state property from politics and political officials? Does the new demographic fund mean that in the future, it will be prevented from becoming the home attorney of the largest government party to be the supervisor of Luke Koper? Does the new demographic fund mean that the vice-president of another government party would become head of Darsa? Not really. In fact, it was the only serious step so far to reduce interference with politics, and the Step of the Pahor government, the Accreditation Council, the AUKN, and so on, when it wanted to follow the OECD principles, they were stopped. But I do not recall that the highest levels of corporate governance would then be referred to as top political party officials. The current proposal ahead of us makes it possible for policy to have an even greater impact. The guidance criteria are decreasing. Political officials will have more access. This therefore means, in the management of state property, the possibility of political kidnapping. The next important step was taken under the rule of Mr Cerar. This was the first time that criteria were clearly laid down, which is in one, second or third category, which is state-owned, in order to remain state-owned, because it is strategic, which remains state-owned, because this was the case and the profit percentages were set. So, we have state companies to make profits, to put them in different state registers, because we need profit. This must be admitted to Dr. Cerar's former policy that a step forward has been taken. And now we have before us something that is once again the cowardly egg on the right side of this Parliament and this government. Is this demographic fund really a real demographic fund? Is this a demographic fund that is looking for new resources to accumulate money that will be released when the state needs them to help fund pensioners' pensions. The demographic fund is intended for exactly what the name says – help with the coming demographic hole. This means more resources to be closed and, when necessary, to be used for co-financing. It is quite right for some predecessors to conclude that the demographic fund is only aid, in fact only aid, but one of the stones, that pensions will be safe when the biggest expected crisis is due to the demographic hole. The current demographic fund does not allow this. It does not bring new quality sources for charging. And we have proposed to you natural resources and many other things — no, no, no! Secondly, this demographic fund is not even nearly locked up. It gathers money to make use of money when needed. Now we'd be financing pensions with this money. It's a budget assignment. This is also the task of the percentage increase in employers' contributions, which are shamelessly low in Slovenia. And remember, August 2018, if I have a good memory, the political parties that provided 52 Members and Members signed and agreed that we would increase the employer's contribution to pensions so that the pensions would be safe and higher. This week, look at the vote where political promises go, even when they are signed. This is the dark side of politics that should not be present. The current version of the demographic fund is just, and now I'm going to figure out a model, how the ruling party in particular - everyone else that you're with, you only get candy and you're happy not to see the whole picture - you set your people up because it won't be an important buyout, and it wasn't important in the years 2004 to 2008, it's just important to set up your people. And the state property, which is so small and should be nobled and brought to the best of men, will not be noble. Secondly, to transfer the liabilities to the current exhaustion of the demographic fund, which must be financed by the State budget, such as pensions allowances at this time, to the current exhaustion of the demographic fund, constitutes the decommissioning of the demographic fund. Then this is no longer a demographic fund. But that is exactly what you did, instead of telling pensioners and pensioners clearly, the next 20 years are safe because if there are too few contributions, we will, but, if possible, increase the contributions from the budget yesterday, b, the rest of the money will be provided from the budget because it is our duty. You are exhausting a demographic fund that has a much more important task of stepping in when the crisis is the biggest. I know, respected and respected, because I will almost be finished because my colleagues and colleagues must also have their minutes, I know, respected and respected that you all know mathematics, but it pains me that empty promises are so eager to give in politics, and citizens and citizens do not deserve it. Therefore, for the first time, let us reject a bad law, together when I say together, but there is no need to look at the opposition, because you do not like us anyway when I say together, in particular with the representatives of employees, union centres, youth representatives and pensioners, bring a more normal and smart version, come to Parliament with it. And believe me, you don't have to coordinate with me, not the SD, not the opposition when you come here with a proposal that will be consistent with unions, young people and pensioners, at this point you have my voice in advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Andrea Zabrett has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. First, I would respond to Mr Horvat, who spoke about our silver and the limited duration of these companies. I don't understand exactly what my colleague Horvat was going to say with this, but I can ask myself how you plan to finance all these policies, which you imagined with the demographic fund, is a pension, a nursing home, youth housing and scholarships, if these companies have a limited duration. Moreover, in fact, in the law itself, you did not foresee any additional resources to finance the demographic fund, and it really doesn't count here. I don't know if Mr Horvat here has talked about the sale of state property, that they have a limited duration of these companies or anything else. He's probably the only one who knows. The imaginary demographic fund that we are dealing with today is a bad idea, and it has been hugely said about it, and even in the opposition so far we have tried to do everything possible to prevent the adoption of a harmful law, but unfortunately all the amendments that we have proposed so far have been overlooked. We'll try again today. Together with the opposition, we tabled or co-signed three amendments, a little more on this at the end. If these amendments are not adopted, but the unions have already announced a legislative referendum, I hope that we are at least trying to ensure that this harmful law does not begin to be implemented. In particular, the solution to the demographic problem we have in Slovenia needs to be sought in the direction of increasing productivity and also in the maximum number of working people. We will have more employees, more contributions will be paid and more money will be paid in the pension register and thus less pressure on the budget or therefore on the demographic fund. In no case is the demographic fund the only suitable solution to the problem of rapid ageing of the Slovenian population, but it is only part of it. Therefore, of course, we all agree that something needs to be done in this area, that demographic trends point to this and these problems are not from yesterday. We have been reminded of this for many years by the OECD and, finally, we are bound by legislation that Kad needs to be transformed into a demographic fund. In Slovenia, 20,000 young people come to the labour market every year and 30,000 retire. This means that every year the Slovenian market will be without tens of thousands of workers and even after OMAR projections, which do not take into account migration, the number of workers in Slovenia will decrease by 150 000 in 2026 compared to 2006 and the number of older than 65 will increase by 180 thousand. That means the numbers are really worrying. Slovenia will be one of the oldest populations over 65 in 2060. The first thing we disagree with in the LMŠ is that the Fund will also finance additional policies such as homes for ageing, housing policy and scholarships. Not that we do not want these policies to be implemented, but we think that the budget is in charge of this, but in particular this demographic fund that is being set up. We know that we have a circus of 8.9 billion assets, and that is absolutely too little for us to co-finance all these policies with this money. We know that the budget is already bringing back a billion dollars every year to the pension circa 2060, it is expected to be 2.4 billion, and today it has been heard that in 10 years there will be a billion four hundred in the demographic fund, which means that this is actually, if we look now, one amount that will move the budget into the pension register. We are not really talking about large numbers, so that we can afford to finance everything that comes to mind. Therefore, all these problems arising from demographic trends, such as health, the labour market, should be addressed in other ways. While we all know that the demographic fund is only part of this, it is essential to make a structured system of long-term care. We know that we will also need at least 300 million per year from the budget here, but above all increase productivity, raise the proportion of active older people as quickly as possible to include young people in the labour market. And there is one thing that I warn young people more than once that they will save money for their age from their first job. Of course, the country must also take care of the relevant legislation and promote the second pillar and stimulate the third pillar, which is still very bad for us. The next harmful thing in the law is that all the country's capital investments will be under one roof. The Government’s argument is that this provides resources for the financing of pension and other policies, but if the purpose of the demographic fund is to provide the missing budgetary resources for the areas mentioned and also to relieve the budget, the State should be able to sell or receive high dividends in investment in the demographic fund, it is said that only portfolio investments should be made. To be able to do so, we must first have investments that are highly liquid. In fact, the imaginary demographic fund is likely to have the most illiquid investment in infrastructure companies. These companies are of strategic importance to the country and cannot be sold in such a way that they can then retain social expenditure at a certain time. In addition, companies performing public service will also be in line. Indeed, it is a totally inappropriate and harmful provision. In fact, I don't know the fund in the world that would have an investment portfolio, says the portfolio of the demographic investment fund, which is strategically important for the country, that is, from infrastructure companies, telecommunications, public services and so on. I will also now define myself as amendments, because, in fact, I leave the word to my colleagues, and then I will not come forward later. We have also proposed or co-signed proposing deleting the amendment to Article 38. In view of this proposal of the law, it also proposes to drain all assets in the opposite direction, which means that only part of the funds will be accumulated and we will spend the rest on the other side. In LMŠ we have always advocated the need for accumulation, we have talked about the accumulation of 20 years, here of course all communication is open, how appropriate the time is now, but certainly the entire accumulation of all revenue coming into the demographic fund. One professional basis is that at least a 15-year accumulation of resources and, of course, the opposite nobility of these funds should be. And since this is not just about accumulation and direct consumption of these funds, we are also proposing deleting this article because it does not seem appropriate. And an amendment to 86.a and 86.b. Article 86a grants the demographic fund new powers to intervene in institutions where the demographic fund has nothing to do. This means that, under the umbrella of the demographic fund, companies in which the Republic of Slovenia is now designated as founder and sole shareholder will also move. This means that Slovenian Railways, Slovenian State Forests, Kobilna Lipica, Official Gazette, STA, Blue Insurance Office will come under cover. And this will give the government new leverage for arbitrary interference with the governing and supervisory authorities of companies that have so far failed to discipline, even if I mention STA, or perhaps take over. Here, too, we propose deleting this 86a. In fact, this article also interferes with the functioning of the public pension fund of the PSIZ, in particular from the point of view of the transfer of all capital investments of the PSIZ to the demographic fund, which means that the public pension fund will be reduced by more than EUR 100 million and is also directly contrary to this fund, which in fact also provides pension funds. There are too many open and controversial things, as we have heard through the debate and also in our views. The opposition has not listened to any of our proposals; the law has by no means been in line with the social partners. While mentioning that it is actually a transfer of all assets to the demographic fund and that the state of Slovenia will remain without all assets overnight, the economists also point out that it may be difficult for Slovenia to fall a credit rating to increase funding costs, reduce access to financial resources, reduce competitiveness and, at the same time, can all companies that will own the fund be able to sell the currently ruling policy at the head of the SDS. And it comes to my mind once again that my colleague Horvath's statement that all these companies have a limited period of time, all our silver has a limited duration. I already agree with this that companies have a limited period of time, but there is no end to any surprises in this government, so let's say such a statement may also concern me. Therefore, we cannot support this proposal in the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much. What to add to what the predecessors have already said, but nevertheless, look, I'm not a populism, I'm coming from an economy where you can't save the company on the basis of the populism. I want to come out of this. We are now talking about this Article 38, which is proposed for deletion. In particular, because we want to say that this law does not fully bring any added value, at least not some new added value. Why? Since we're talking from pocket to pocket, that's the only problem. But we are populist, especially some colleagues want to explain what we can do with this fund in the long run. Yes, what will we do if it is only from one pocket to another, from one pocket, where the common state treasury was, I am talking about 1996, when we reduced our contributions to pensions, and of course from employers' insurance and, of course, from the state budget, we commit ourselves to making this difference in the PPA? That's the whole point. And so far, it's been like this. Now we just want to solve everything with this fund. But these companies that we are about to transport here, of course, will not be bringing golden eggs overnight, we must be aware of that. Of course, Europe knows this system. Europe is solidarity, we belong to this family, and pensions have been and will be. This solidarity will continue. Of course, it's not just the payments. Well, the minister said earlier that pensions are based on intergenerational solidarity, and that is that foundation, and it will continue to do so, without it we will not be able to resolve the matter. This, of course, is based on productivity. This added value, which we now want to resolve with this law, will not, of course, give us this. Europe, of course, knows these funds, Belgium, France, Ireland, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, everyone is trying in some way, but there are some healthy assets, as has already been said, what Norway has. These are the pearls, the silver, the gold on which you can build, and unfortunately we don't have it. Slovenia has forests, but it can't take advantage of them. We're also saving these forests how we'll know how to elevate them so that we can stay this wood at home so that we can start the wood processing industry, by the way. I mentioned the comparison earlier, I always like to understand a matter, I am trying to understand: Australia is probably one of those where these funds have been very strong since before, and this fund stands for 7.7% of their GDP, France 4.2% of GDP, Japan, where this fund is also intended for other things, 30% of GDP, so strong are these funds, Norway 7.3%, Poland 1.3%. I guess we're kind of comparable here. With us these funds, 140 million of us have calculated to transfer from these companies this dividend, this contribution, which, of course, we only transfer from one pocket to another, is this. And that's not the solution. We should be talking about completely different things today. It's about productivity. If we want to save, we need a Slovenian economy with productivity, with this growth, it will bring this. We know that today we are lagging behind 15% with added value for the average of the European Union and more with productivity. Productivity is down 20%. And that's the right solution, we should talk about it, not that we're speaking populistly today, what we're going to do with this merger of companies -- you have some other goals here. Let's be honest with people that this is something else. I don't know what good that can do. I really don't see it. And that's the thing. This law will be passed because you are in the majority, but it will not bring solutions in this area for pensions in the future. There are many other solutions that we should discuss today. Once again, there are 88 companies on the list of these investments, 7 are those we do not agree on. And there are 20 of these companies in bankruptcy or liquidation. A circus of 30 of these companies, which are in this agreement you are proposing, needs assistance to survive tomorrow, are without dividends. 30 companies, if we assess, but there are those where the country co-owners of between 1% and 50%, there are also many foreigners. And these dividends are very limited. In the long run, the question is, what's going to happen? This is said to be very low values, and today we are talking about how we will save long-term pensions with this. No, we won't. Long-term pensions, like all other countries, will be resolved by increasing productivity if we can maintain this through this intergenerational solidarity. That's something else. Our wages will have to grow on the basis of productivity. We have to work to ensure that the foreign companies opening companies will not use us to pay taxes there at the origin of this company in the country where they are established. That'll be the long-term solution. And when we start talking about it, then I'll be happy to tell people, and that's the real thing. And here's just something from the pocket in the pocket that doesn't have that real added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u110	Vice President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The demographic fund, or efforts to establish it, is supposed to be, in many ways, obvious to us our story. It's not like that. This is a thing that must be common to all generations, especially those who will retire in the coming or coming generation. This is a story that should be made by the end of 2014 at the latest. Indeed, the new law on pension and disability insurance provided for the establishment of funding in 2012 within two years of its entry into force, which means until the end of 2014. For the additional year, until the end of 2015, the commitment was extended by the Slovenian State Holding Act, which provides that the Capital Society will be transformed into an independent and autonomous demographic reserve fund under a specific law that would also determine its additional permanent resources. I'm afraid that didn't happen. The reasons, of course, are well known. Politics could not and cannot agree today on how this fund should have any effect, funding and, of course, management. This is not exactly what any policy wanted, even though we have worked very hard in our parliamentary group in our party in the past. You know that the biggest problem is that every policy wanted to have a hand over state property, whether it was a left or a right policy, if we start with the AUKUM, then the Slovenian state holding company and now the demographic fund. During the 2014-2018 term, we introduced a law in the Group of Members with a serious purpose. We know what the outcome was. The proposal was not considered for the early termination of the term of office of the National Assembly, initiated by the then President of the Government, Miro Cerar. This was the first law to break through the door of Parliament, as it was the desire of a certain circle in all political options to have their hands over a certain part of the state property, as I mentioned earlier. These were immeasurably great political desires. Consequently, at the legislative level, it was not possible to reach the final agreement and to draw up a legal text corresponding to what the demographic fund should be intended for. That's a pensioner. Some of you remember well, including those sitting up there, what this story looked like as we worked hard. And, interestingly, at that time, the largest party that had 36 seats in the country made it impossible for us to establish this fund. Slovenia is among the countries with the greatest risks for the long-term sustainability of public finances due to the ageing of our population. According to the European Commission's projections, the number of pensioners is expected to exceed the number of insured persons within about two decades. In the coming decades, the demographic reserve fund should cover at least partially, as a reserve institution, the deficit of the pension fund, due to greater demographic pressures in the light of ageing. Therefore, to mitigate budgetary expenditure while at the same time being an additional reserve fund to maintain pension stability in the event of an economic or, God forbid, health crisis again. We know that young people in particular do not trust the pension system. It is therefore right to provide a reserve fund that will have an impact on the optimism of younger generations, that they will know why they are working, and that they will have a guarantee that pensions that must be decent and reflect their work will indeed be received. In order for the Fund to deliver effective and effective results and to carry out its mission, it must be, so to speak, proper footwear and also dress and, of course, be empowered, independent and independent in the management of property, with the goal of maximum nobility, that is to say, far away from politically oriented appetites – I have already talked about them – to be left or right. And so was our law, which we tabled in the parliamentary procedure on 30 January 2018. The fund would be created by the conversion of the Capital Society, from the pension and disability insurance of Kad to the independent autonomous demographic reserve fund. The resources were properly and safely included and loaded. Total assets Kad, including Blue Insurance, plus increased assets with capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenian State Holding and ZPIZ. The estimated value of the transfer of government shares from some strategically important portfolio investments was then estimated at an accounting value of EUR 3.85 billion. Let me point out some of the most important, namely Nova Ljubljanska banka, Luka Koper, Posta Slovenije, Petrol, Telekom Slovenije, Insurance Office Triglav, Krka, Zasobrovnica Sava, plus additional sources of financing in the form of purchases and dividends from capital investments in order to further strengthen the assets of the Fund, 20% of purchases from the sale of investments of the Republic of Slovenia and 50% of dividends from the investments of the Republic of Slovenia. The period of accumulation without drawing on funds until its expiry would have been duly long; until 2039, the funds invested and acquired would have been nominate; only in 2040 would they have started to apply for pensions on purpose. The cashier’s PSIZ would start to pay the funds that the fund would accumulate and increase on the basis of returns. After the accumulation period, 90 % of the net earnings of the fund would be paid directly into the PPIZ each year in the coming year. On the assumption of returns of 5% per year and no payments from ZPIZ during the fund accumulation period, with the exception of payments of EUR 50 million per year – then we planned – 2018 and 2019 were on average paid per year to the pension treasury in the period 2040-2060 estimated at EUR 740 million. Exceptionally, the intermediate or prior co-financing of PPIZ could be possible due to the response to demographic changes, but only for the coordination of pensions, solely and exclusively for the coordination of pensions. The most crucial governing body, this is the Supervisory Board, has been balanced in terms of representation of all stakeholders. In addition to the three representatives of the key ministries, a uniform occupation of both the labour and labour sides was ensured. Members of the pension generation would be represented by three representatives and a youth representative. Today, we are at the final stage of the confirmation of the bill, which brings under one roof most of what we have described as social property in the past, and from which today, after more or less non-economic privatisations, there is only a small amount left. With the exceptional assets that the state has in Dars and in the electricity network, all investments that are or are currently expected to be worth €8.5 billion would be transferred to the fund. Recognizing that pension expenditure alone through day-to-day payments is no longer available without the assistance of the State budget, bearing in mind that the demographic picture is already inexcusable and that the current health crisis and, as a result, their financial adjustments today call for a different approach to policy-making on the response of demographic issues, including long-term care, bearing in mind that the issues of pension stability will not solve the new reform of the pension system, and that additional effective resources must therefore be provided for the payment of paid-up rights to economic security at an age, I understand the proposal of the law as a necessary compromise among all the previous legislative proposals. This law can, at least after the majority belief of Desus Members, have a real impact on the exemplary management of demographic conditions in our country and at the same time stop the further sale of assets and ensure that investments are carried out in an appropriate and purposeful manner. Dissatisfaction with the field, our electorates and voters, if you give from the state silver the pensioners who have created it in their long-term operation or work experience, last but not least they will have nothing, an additional argument is that, by partially accumulating and partially drawing on pension funds, intergenerational trust will be restored today. The establishment of a Demography Office, which provides substantively comprehensive supervision and management of key demographic challenges, is the next step towards a more real awareness of the importance of all issues of demographic challenges and the intergenerational interdependence of society. Let me remind you that Desus has been working for a number of years to establish an office for older people whose task would be to implement or coordinate a comprehensive policy for citizens over 65 years of age. However, the Office, which is provided for by this law, which is in fact formally established, covers a broader point of concern for the whole problem of demographics, but is a priority for the care of the older generation. For Desus, future key substantive issues are also related to the creation of a long-term sustainable and comprehensive system regime for the situation of pensioners. First of all, we point out the following: the correction of the wrongs of pensioners who still feel deprived of their pensions due to austerity measures in the period 2010 - 2015; the adoption of a law on long-term care; the provision of quality public institutional protection in relation to the construction of suitable homes for older citizens and nursing homes; the provision of home assistance to all pensioners; the provision of quality public health services; access to other social transfers for pensioners, such as monetary and social assistance, protection and supplement; the allowance for assistance and services, which should not be linked to property or to mortgage and potential execution; the payment of an annual allowance to all pensioners, irrespective of the level of their pensions; and taking into account a certain scale that will be fair and solidarity. I wanted to remind you in particular of the marriage we filed. I am convinced that this law that we have enacted is the real law that we should have adopted in the past. But since we've been stumbled everywhere, we haven't come to that. I am afraid that this time too this will not go through and that the pension generation, the older population and also, I feel, young people will not be realized because politics has its own interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have heard a long expertise from my fellow Member, who has somehow also refreshed us what has happened in recent years by setting up a demographic fund that would further fill the pension fund with profits from the operations of state-owned enterprises and property and thus provide an additional source of stability for it. The proposal to establish demographic malt has a very long beard, and too long has been an unfulfilled promise. And yes, this government brought this law into the National Assembly without a broader social agreement, despite the fact that Minister Shircelj said in the introduction that a broader public debate had been held. And if the Minister considers that a broader public debate has been held on the basis of what the colleague has already said about what we discussed in the past when we discussed the proposal proposed by the Social Democrats in the parliamentary procedure, then he is deeply mistaken. Also, if there was a broader social consensus and agreement, I don't know why the unions would object. And if I keep going. Why a broader social agreement is needed because we are talking about a fund that will allow future generations to finance pensions in a stable manner. Regardless of the way in which it is accepted, this government has literally subordinated the objective of allowing future generations to receive stable funding for pensions as a personal project to achieve their partisan objectives. Indeed, we should have a fund to provide a stable third source of pension funds in a critical period after 20 years. This government law is designed by the fund to exhaust current consumption from the outside, while the return was sought in privatisation. This is not a demographic fund for me, but, unfortunately, I have to say political looting, not just because it is a privatisation trap of what is left of state property. And when we talk about this demographic fund, about this proposal, it is about the relative spending that this government represents by this national demographic fund law, it has a major financial impact both on the pension fund and is already underfunded to effectively finance the construction of a home for the elderly and, worse, an undefined family policy. Although there has been a speech today that the scholarship fund could also be set up and have scholarships, I personally do not oppose the scholarship fund, but that must be provided by the state budget, we cannot speak in this proposal of the demographic fund on these funds. Such dispersion of funding will by no means be effective. It will not be effective neither for the pension fund, nor for building a home for the elderly, which you are also talking about, nor for family policy, so there are still a lot of checks and questions. Moreover, because of the structure of state-owned enterprises, there is a great deal of strategicism among them, and there remains a great risk that the fund will be charged at the expense of exhaustion and through the privatisation of state-owned enterprises. And yes, it is crucial to answer the question whether the pension system will in the future be based on solidarity, on all generations, including those who should benefit less directly from the establishment of the demographic fund. Why are we talking about this? For the hole in the pension box is increasing. If we fill it another day with one billion transfers from the state budget, it will be even higher and bigger over the years, we can also estimate it to three billion euros, and we are also reminded of the professional facts that say we need to increase the sources of the pension fund, accumulate the reserve, stress, accumulate the reserve for critical periods that are yet to come, in 20 years' time. At that time, we will need all possible resources to ensure intergenerational solidarity. The proposal of this proposal, which we have - the establishment of a demographic fund - does not go this way, but I can say without reservation that this proposal is harmful. With the Fund in place, the Government will be able to transform the pension system in the long term by politically seizing the last reserves intended for future pension insurance and their assets and bringing them in for current consumption and undefined other objectives, possibly for any pre-election candy. As has been said today, silver has a shelf life. Silver has a shelf life. Silver is changing value, and that can happen under this government, so I am absolutely opposed to this bill. When Mr Horvat said that if this proposal for a law on the demographic fund is not adopted, we will not have it for the next 20 years, the question is whether it is already continuing to predict that Nova Slovenija will never participate in the drafting of a new proposal for a law on the demographic national fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u114	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and Director-General at the Directorate of Public Property, honourable Members, honourable Members and welcome to all those who accompany us! Slovenia needs a demographic fund. That's a fact. We don't need it tomorrow, we needed it yesterday, so it's imperative that we accept it, of course, and do what we should have done years ago. Today we have heard a lot of things, and I am not surprised that, above all, you have a opposing opinion on the left side of the opposition that you have many suggestions, additions that you may have a different concept of the design of a national demographic fund, but I am surprised, or I think it is a little bit unrealistic, so I will express myself that after all the years you have had scissors and canvas in your hands, you have not been able to at least prepare a specific law, put it through parliamentary procedure, and today you would have had such a fund and, of course, could have already drawn its fruits or had a system, a structure, but it is not, because you were not able to do so. Today, however, we listen to many counsels, and we listen in some way to the promise of what you will do when you are back in power. You were in power, and you didn't do anything. Why didn't you do anything? That's the answer you know. Perhaps to preserve your privileges, nothing has changed. And today you are tearing down again so that nothing, respected and respected, will change again, and there is nothing to worry about that the adoption of this law will actually benefit all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It will burden the state budget in the long run, as it is not the only source of funding for pensions or pension funds in the long term. It represents a uniform, transparent and efficient way of managing state property with lower costs of managing state property, and this is very important. Your discussions today, as well as the discussions in the previous debates of this Act in the National Assembly, are based on exactly what I have mentioned or what I am telling you that you do not want anything to change, because you obviously have an existing situation. Before I proceed, allow me another intervention that we have heard a lot in the last few hours, which is how you like to hang on to the words about state silver when we heard that expression today. Look, in my opinion, state property is worth as much as we can manage it. If we can manage it well, it will be noble, it will be worth more, we will create added value, it will accumulate and, of course, it can also be noble below. But if not, if we manage the state property poorly, if it is looted, which has also happened many times in the past, especially when the left government was in power, then the assets are worth less from time to time, from year to year. There's a lot of cases like this, I'm sorry. And this is what we also have to ask ourselves at this point, that we have to treat state property as we would treat our own property, that is responsible, rational, economically, because it is the property of all of us citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And even under this law, it's very clear who's putting those authorities in charge of this property. And the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also correct, has the main role here, the main power. It seems important to me that this law is also designed so that, in fact, those who have created this property will also receive the fruits of this law, and not until then the next generation, or someday in the future, if so. I think that this concept is correct, especially at a time, especially in the period in which we are located. Therefore, allow me to conclude my debate with some concrete data which are available from the projections and which are also available from the Ministry of Finance. The fact is, we all know this without having to do any analysis that we are an ageing society and that the number of pensioners will increase significantly in the coming years, according to some projections by 2070, by 20% compared to today's period. This means that the pressure on the pension allowance will be even greater than it is today, and it is already relatively high today. And in these projections it is also possible to understand that the crucial year when the number of pensioners will increase the number of contributors in 2042, which is not that far away. To conclude my debate precisely by saying that we really urgently need the National Demographic Fund Act, the law drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has harmonised it and which I believe will show very clearly in some medium term that, once we have supported this law, we have done the right thing and that we have done well for the current generations of pensioners and all those who will achieve it in the years or decades to come. Personally, I will support the proposal for a law on national demographics with all the responsibility and confidence that I will do good for existing pensioners and all future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Replica, Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much. He exposed his colleague to silver. First of all, silver always had a price, by the time of the Romans, of course, if you can keep it. That's why I also said that this government can't keep silver, so it's a trap. Secondly, citing the lie that we did not put forward a proposal on the left side of the demographic fund, which is indeed a big lie. Dude, please look back a little bit. I don't know if you were a Member at the time, but the Social Democrats have tabled a proposal for a law on the demographic fund, but unfortunately it has not been supported. That is why we have also had such a long debate that we have come up with this proposal for a law that we have today. [[advertising from the hall]] So the left center or left side proposed a law on the demographic fund, and don't tell me we didn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, chairman. If I should like to take a note, I ask myself in this debate about the demographic fund, if it's a condition that you become an SDS official that you can lie, or if they only teach you that when you're in office. Unlike the speakers and the general views we can hear about the demographic fund, I would point out that we do not have a demographic problem, our problem is capitalism. The product created is sufficient, regardless of the ageing population, but it is very unfairly distributed. That is why we have also proposed in Levica that a contribution rate be raised for employers filling the pension allowance. If this proposal had been adopted, a new stable and socially just source of €560 million each year would have been obtained, a source that would practically halve the transfer from the state budget, which currently amounts to €1.15 billion, just to cover its basic liabilities to pensioners and pensioners in that country, it is said that it pays their pensions. But how miserable are these pensions? We have 240 thousand pensioners living under 600 euros. This is not a pension for a comfortable life. It's not income for a safe age. It's poverty in a slightly different dress. More than 10,000 older people are waiting in line for a bed for a city in the homes of older citizens. This is also some investment that the country has neglected for years, decades, and now the acute crisis has exploded with the further acceleration of the covida-19 epidemic. And I could also describe what we must do to ensure that our elderly, current or future pensioners are provided with the safe age they have earned by their work and by their contribution to society. Together, we are now discussing expenditure and investments that would exceed €2 billion each year. The government of Janez Janša has rushed to answer this question by means of the Demographic Fund Act. It argues that the demographic fund will strengthen the income of the pension fund and it can ensure that the lowest pensions are raised. It's a deception at best, but at worst it's a lie. The proponents of this demographic fund are very fond of talking about the flossules and how it will be nice for pensioners to take care of state-owned enterprises and not know what else to do. But they're stuck with numbers, so there's very little talk about these numbers. The specific number in this context is €56 million. So much should be poured from the demographic fund into the pension fund in the first year of its existence. We compare €56 million with the needs estimated at €2 billion and the current transfer to the state budget of €1.15 billion per year – we see that the demographic fund cannot and will not solve the issue of pension financing. So why does Janez Janša's government so long and wide explain that the demographic fund is absolutely necessary to finance pensions, but if the income from this demographic pension fund is such a drop into the sea, it does not matter if or if it is not, especially if we know that dividends from the same title are already coming from the same companies into the state budget, in this same state budget, which protects and co-finances the pension fund. That brings me to the second point. If I now speak from the position of emphasis on the demographic fund, I now turn to the emphasis on the “from” demographic fund, the real issue of state property. And that's the bush the rabbit's in. The government of Janez Janša does not have any desire and interest to actually manage state property, and the more it wants to seize and confiscate it. The first danger that this demographic fund poses at this point, I can already say in terms of demographic funds, very clearly and openly, is the risk of privatisation. The new bodies, which are incorporated into the Demographic Fund Act, will be placed entirely on the political line – some Government, some National Assembly, this represents the majority of the management staff. Of course, the distinction between the Government and the National Assembly in our country is quite blurred. That political option, that arch that will gather enough votes in the National Assembly to set up a government, it will be able to fully control this 8.6 billion euro asset. What this would mean in the event of such a collapse of a country as we have under the rule of John Janša, you can imagine. But then there's another one. These new bodies that would be established would have a year to basically do whatever they wanted, because the basis for managing state assets, what is being sold, what is not being sold, how is being done, should be accepted. It is said that the Janez Janša Coalition plus the government of Janez Janša is recruiting a new top of the demographic fund with EUR 8.6 billion of assets, with its hands completely untied, would operate this summit. What do you think would be left after a year? Yes, because we would privatize everything, sell it, what we wouldn't, but shoot it with our own people, who don't have two lefts, but have four left hands; because we see how they caused the epidemic of excessive death, vaccination is a living disaster, so that we don't even start with the acquisition of masks and fans. And this is some interesting moment embedded in this government law on the demographic fund. Behind him lies no common civil interest, but only the appetites of the government of Janez Janša to seize what is left of the industrial base in this country. In this process, working groups are also excluded from decision-making and management. All the value of these companies – these companies are themselves the fruit of generations of working people, these companies have created and built this value with their hands and their brains. Not only does the government of Janez Janša now deny them any right to participate in the drafting of a law to cover the management of state property, but it is said that this industrial base, which these workers themselves have set up, has completely excluded from control and management of this property. In Levica, we think the opposite, if we are talking about the management of state property, the point is one of the working worlds. It is necessary to allow and include those who are most organically interested in companies doing well, that jobs are quality, that wages are high, that contributions are paid, that companies develop to develop in this way also the communities in which these companies operate. Some manager doesn't care, he just cuts his piece of cake there, he loads it into tax havens, he can be in office, he can no longer be in office if he accidentally interferes with illegal fraud and bullshit, and the police, the D.A. and the judiciary come after him, he can pack his suitcases and run abroad. It is the workers who will ensure that the funds from companies do not drain but invest back in this industrial base and that companies do well. We have repeatedly suggested this, technically taken by German example, that you do not yell at Cuba, Venezuela, North Korea, as you like to say. No, no, no, according to a German model, we proposed working management in state-owned companies. Of course you didn't want to hear about it. The same way you don't want to hear about managers' salaries being limited to ten times their personal preference, I'd prefer to say five times the lowest wage in a company. Moreover, where workers are now entitled to co-management, such as the Blue Insurance Company, which manages €300 million of the funds of all insurers, you throw them out by transforming them into a demographic fund. It's anti-democratic, there's no development moment about it, just another pasaluk that the government of Janez Janša wanted. Of course, we will oppose this in Levica. If we do not gather enough votes to prevent this harmful coup on the state silver and industrial base in this country, we will see you in the autumn of another referendum. Do I really need to remind you what happened last Sunday?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing there's still an interest, so I'm asking you to report it. The application shall be made. The first one has the word "magic." Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very well greeted representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! What we are listening to today, I wonder whether we do not all have the same objective in this National Assembly, namely to finally establish a demographic fund, which I regret, I think you have made a mistake because my colleague Ferrjan did not want to say that the proposal was not made, but he wanted to point out that there was no proposal, because you yourself have not been able to harmonise that when you had your governments, you should have united and all together supported a single proposal. Of course, you came up with suggestions, but you didn't coordinate them, you weren't coordinated among coalition partners, but you were close to each other with a fig in your pocket. Each of you is willing to do in the proposal what is the goal of your parliamentary group, not that you have a united front to help the pensioners. And that is the point of all and all the problems that have not occurred today at all in the first reading or that no proposal of yours has come as far as the one we have today on the table in the third reading. Like all the other proposals that are good for citizens and citizens, the government has put a lot of people on the table, and now you want with one success that you have achieved on the lie about the referendum, on the lie that it is clear to you that you have deceived people because Ninja did not want to stop drinking water, now you think you will succeed in all the other referendums. I mean, let's just imagine what you're doing. You think everyone really believes everything you say. Secondly, when you file for a legislative referendum, you will mislead citizens and citizens. And what would happen in the future? Then the pensioners would have lost their pensions. Given our demographic picture, which is getting worse and worse, which is that it is not really in favour of the pension system that we have today, and we all know that it needs to be established in a different way as soon as possible. The establishment of the demographic fund is just a first step, everything else, and the whole reform must be carried out to the end. Rather, let us all take a common position together, and let us look for ways to upgrade it. Let us bring this proposal of the demographic fund into implementation and let us look after what we will do next in order to actually establish a whole system that will be sustainable for our demographic image. As regards funds and how this demographic fund would be filled, however, it was clearly stated by the Minister. One part would be stable, the one who would actually care about stable finances, the other part would be the one who would fertilize, who would actually try to fertilize himself so that there could be more funding for pensions. The fact that this government wants to subordinate its finances to subjugate its entire pension fund is not the case. For most of the members would have a national assembly, and you know that the composition of the National Assembly is changing. Which means it's one of your misleading thesis again. The next thing that bothered me was that it was very hurtful of the predecessor who spoke before me to say that those people who now make decisions during the epidemic had four left-handed hands not two. I don't know if he knew what he was saying. That's what he told the experts, that's what he told the doctors, that's what he told the social workers, that's what he told those people who were doing in the epidemic, and that's what he told those people who have a lot of working hours behind them. But let him ask himself how many working days he has except in the National Assembly. That is why such insults have really been unwelcome in here, even for those who have actually shown some results in their lives. I won't repeat myself. Everything we have already said about this demographic fund in the first and second baths, because it has been said all the way down to the details, how and what will actually flow through the establishment of this demographic fund, and today the Minister has taken over. I would just say, let's step together, let's do something for our pensioners and for citizens and citizens and not look again at how it would collapse. For the truth is that if this law does not see the light of the world today, we will not really see it for another 20 years, not because you would not submit it, but because you will not be able to unify yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We are Members and Members of the Left, if we are used to this reference as well as in the previous, used to the notion that none of us has a working age, as if this, for the first time, is the most important argument. I would like to ask, Madam President, to remind my colleague Usai that personal discredits in this debate do not belong to the Chamber, which should be the home of the reasoned debate. By the way, all Members and Members of the Left have some working hours before entering Parliament. What my colleague Miha Kordiš said was that this government is managing the epidemic catastrophically, as demonstrated by the acquisition of protected equipment, as demonstrated by the lack of a vaccination management strategy and all other measures. The profession is united, this government is catalysing the epidemic, and no member of the Left, Ambassador Left, is to blame for this catastrophic management of the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u123	Dear Mr Siter, I must say that this is not a procedural proposal. As President, I am not here to remind Members of something, and I expect you to follow the rules of procedure that we have adopted. Thank you very much. Come in. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I now expect you to continue to follow the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, for which you are in charge, and to take the word out of someone's next failure because it went well, I would say, from the plane it was obvious that it was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I will personally support the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Demographic Fund. I'm sure this marriage is proper and proper. Undoubtedly, once again, this law should have been established in 2013 after the first step, and the attempt failed. We know which governments were in power during that period. Article 79 of the Slovenian State Holding Act then provided for the transformation of the Capital Society into an autonomous demographic fund and for this to take place by 2015 at the latest. Today we are still in 2021 and Slovenia does not have a demographic fund, even though we should have it by law. And unfortunately, in all these governments, the demographic fund should be designed, including the Social Democrats, who are also the loudest today. And you didn't make it. You probably know the reasons for this, whether you didn't want it or didn't do it within the coalition. However, this coalition of governments, Janez Janša, has decided and placed the establishment of a demographic fund among the priorities of the coalition treaty. I am confident that this law will give Slovenia two issues, namely, better governance of state property, because this law foresees that state property will be managed from one place from now on. This certainly increases efficiency, more cost-effective behaviour and, of course, transparency of business. In the past, we have seen that two parastatal funds in one society have voted each by their own accord. With this law and with the management of state property from one place, I think we will call it an end to such practices. On the other hand, the establishment of a demographic fund also confers an advantage both for the current pensioner and for all future pensioners. I am confident that this demographic fund will make the pension fund more stable and that part of the pension budget will also become strained. We have heard some revelations from the opposition that this law is not appropriate, that this law is not appropriate, but I am particularly convinced that, both today and the last days, since this law has been in public treatment, we have been witnessed by the opposition by great deceptions and perhaps even lies. The fact is that with this law and the establishment of the Slovenian Demographic Fund, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is losing power. According to the existing Slovenian State Holding Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has significantly greater power in the management of state property than it will have with the current law. However, if we start with the supervisory council, the SDH supervisory council does not have a representative of the opposition at this time. This means that the Government actually controls and controls the Slovenian State Holding. The Supervisory Board was amended in the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek. The initial proposal on the Slovenian State Holding in 2012 also predicted that the opposition had a place in the supervisory council, but the government of Alenka Bratušek then threw the opposition out of the supervisory council and there was no change to date. With the existing law, the opposition is gaining power. In fact, the Supervisory Council is also formed through the help of the National Assembly. In the control world, they also get the city of other institutions that don't have it today. From this point of view, control over the work of the management of the demographic fund will be significantly better and significantly broader. That's one way. Politics has always dealt with state property, because on the one hand it is also kind of normal and logical, because the government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the management of state property. We are convinced, however, that opposition must also have control over this. And under the existing law, the opposition does not have any power. One of the issues previously referred to by colleague Dejan Židan, how in the time of the Social Democrats this governance was effective, better with the establishment of the AUKN and also with the establishment of the so-called KAS. I think it was the Personnel Accreditation Commission, which was established during the Pahor government. The Commission's current chairman, Bogomir Kovac, seems to me, has stepped down after just three months because he saw that it was more than a committee on paper with no actual levers. During the time of your governments, the management of the Slovenian State Holding has always been incomplete. Dear colleagues of the Social Democrats, remember how many presidents or CEOs of the Slovenian State Holding Board have changed during your government. We have witnessed many times that the administration of the Slovenian State Holding was not perfect. It wasn't even a perfect control council. During your government and the management of your government we have come even so far that the court of the Republic of Slovenia must appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. You were also unable to appoint members of the Supervisory Board. And I could count it. The biggest lie, however, is that this fund is the product of the work of the SDS party in order to privatise state property. See, with respect to the opposition, the government of Janez Janša in its second term, in 2011 and 2012 did not sell any company. The government of Janez Janša has not sold any state-owned companies to the government in this recent period. The main sale of state property took place in the time of the left governments. On your part, we hear that this law is being prepared so that the SDS can privatize the matter. I don't remember, for example, selling the government under the leadership of Janez Janša. Aero, Elan, Photona, Helios, Airport Ljubljana, Adria Airways Techniki, Nova banka Maribor, Nova Ljubljanska banka, Žito, SKB, Gorenje – these are all state-owned companies that were sold during the so-called left-centre governments. Here we listen to the last speech by the Left, how we go into privatisation, how we sell state-owned companies. A lot of delusions, a lot of lies! I'm sure this marriage is appropriate. This marriage is good. The positive aspects will be greater control for both pensioners and public property management. I am sure that there is something else we can say during the debate today. Indeed, I ask the opposition not to deceive by this, by privatising, by selling state property, because the most sales of state property took place during the time of your governments.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Andrej Reich, get Mr. Luka Moon ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u126	Nice hello to you all! The Secretary of State, the President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are actually talking about pensions and all the problems involved. I would be very happy to talk about the first, second and third pension pillars in the light, to address the problems of the pension system in a comprehensive manner, and also to call on the Government to start drafting the law that will establish the third pension pillar. Today, unfortunately, we are only talking about the first pension pillar, and this is just one small piece, about the demographic fund, how we are going to fill or mitigate the hole created by demographic changes in this harmony. Of course, part of this solution is the demographic fund. Here we have the diametric opposite of how to provide these things. And we know, given that the remaining state assets are around 9 billion and if we demanded 10 or 5% of the return on this property, we should essentially demand that we get at least EUR 500 million per year from this asset. But we just don't get to those numbers. And given that this property is not enough to cover the hole in the first pension pillar, in the SAB it seems only logical that the property is capitalised and that it is intended solely to cover the demographic pension gap. We must be aware that pension fund expenditure only increases by about 0.8% annually on the basis of demographics, i.e. essentially natural inflows, rather than coordination costs. Therefore, I simply do not understand and see how from this demographic fund, which should be designed to stabilise the financing of the first pension fund, we could also finance the construction of a home for older people and other policies. People need to be honestly told that we will have to pay for long - term care and that it will not be cheap. It would be correct for the government and the ministry to bring into Parliament a law on long-term care, to say how much this law will cost and where it will be financed. Because if we look at the wishes or proposals of the ministry and it doesn't say where it's going to finance this, we can assume that the demographic fund will also provide EUR 300 million from the demographic fund to finance long-term care, and these pension gaps, and we will probably sober up as soon as possible that this money is not available for all these promises. It is precisely because of this that we must say in one fair and corrective way that this property, which is that we must accumulate it, that the funds must first be raised and devoted exclusively to the financing of pensions rather than to various other activities. For those activities such as long-term care, a new contribution or a new levy will have to be established and paid in a solidarity manner. Of course, I am aware that this must be based on intergenerational solidarity and justice, and also in such a way that young people will have confidence in this system. Because we know what the demographic picture is, if we want someone to pay something and I'm going to say these obligations to an active population, then instead of one contribution, which is now paid in the amount of 30 or 35 euros, someone will have to pay 150 or 200 euros if we tell someone that they don't have to pay it. We must build on this basis in one correct and fair way. I've highlighted the second and third pension funds. The second pension pillar we have somehow established, here the state would have to force it significantly more to be actively involved. However, I would like to draw attention to the overlooked third pension pillar, which has been established by all countries. If we look at where today, when we have record deposits, people invest money, we know that they move from banks to real estate, where the balloon is created, according to the official data of the country, there are more than 170 000 uninhabited properties, and in this way they create one balloon, and the country is virtually not responding to it to somehow stimulate it. That is why people should invest some smart money, not in concrete and walls, and set up this third pillar as soon as possible. As regards the management of this demographic fund, colleague Pogačnik spoke about the cooperation of the opposition, the review and something like that. If the opposition has consistently voted in such a supervisory council, then this is cooperation in managing at one level, which you can also provide by reading the annual report. You can read the annual report, make comments, and that's it. I said it more plasticly. So if the opposition does not have enough votes to influence the decisions of the Supervisory Council called the Government, then this view is relatively ineffective. And when we look at what happened to the property, also colleague Pogačnik mentioned the privatisation of various companies, these companies, especially banks, had to be privatised because they would otherwise go bankrupt. The late Dr. Bajuk, whom I highly respect, was already looking for investors as a finance minister to invest in the New Bank of Maribor in 2008 because they were not suitable for capital, but there was no interest. So they were doing so bad business at the time of this debt, it was during the time of the right-wing government that there was no investor who wanted to give their money to these banks. And then the European Commission adopted a clear decision, if they are not recapitalised, they will go bankrupt. And if the bank goes bankrupt. savers lose deposits, lenders, borrowers have to pay off their credits on a hypnotic basis and have chaos. If the state property, as you say, does not operate transparently, transparently and wisely, then, of course, we will have a very severe headache. We warn that this system, as set up, as the Government is preparing or proposing, is not good and therefore we do not support it. We must be aware that this property has been created by our parents, grandparents, and it is the moral duty of every present generation to preserve and upgrade the property of their ancestors and leave it to the next generation. And we think that, in a way like this, the Government assumes that this property will be used in the opposite direction, that it will not even have time to properly capitalise on it, and that it is essentially being carried over by a number of undefined obligations, that this journey is not good and that such a strategy is not good and that it will in fact lead to the fact that the property will simply be no longer. In the SAB, of course, we oppose this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u128	Madam President, thank you for the floor. It's going to be a very short replica, because I'm going to check in later on. It's not wrong to understand now that I'm a proponent of state property. I am confident that the country must gradually withdraw from the economy. But it pains me because in some ways you're trying to put all this sales of state property at the time of Janez Janša's reign. I have already said that the government of Janez Janša has not sold any state-owned companies in the second term or in the third term. Most of these sales took place during the time of your governments, even during the government of Alenka Bratušek there was a lot of sales of state property, not only banks, but also, say, Airport Ljubljana and so on. The Supervisory Board is called the State Council, Comrade Reich. I suggest you take a look at that. And at this point, there is no opposition of a representative in the Slovenian State Holding Council. You probably agree with me here. And by amending this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will lose power in the management of state property, not to acquire it. For the new law opens the way to control not only the opposition but also the other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u130	Yes, thank you very much. A nice hello! I think we all agree that pensions in Slovenia are criminally low. More than 240 thousand people live on less than 600 euros a month, those are pensioners who have worked for 40 years, who are now placed on virtually the brink or the edge of poverty. In doing so, it is necessary to recall the disability and other pensions that may be even less than half of that, and these people are really living or living more with a protective allowance than with what the state guarantees them in the form of pensions. And the macro data isn't any better. If we compare ourselves with neighbouring countries, we will see that in Slovenia the share of pensions in gross domestic product has been steadily falling and I think that we have been significantly below 10% for the third year, while in Austria about 14%, it is said that almost half more are earmarked in relative terms for pensions than we intend, and therefore, of course, pensions there are appropriately higher. The minuses of the pension register are also worrying. They have been collected since 1996, when the rate of employers' contribution to pension and disability insurance was reduced from 15.5% to 8.85%, there was an approximately billion-dollar gap per year. This was compensated for for some time by the tax on paid wages, which was definitively abolished in 2009, according to the first Janševa government to take him off the face of the land. Since then, we have almost every year a billion or more minus. Last year, she had a pension allowance of 1.5 billion deficits, which was, if I'm not mistaken, the second biggest deficit in history. The largest was at the time of the crisis in 2013, when it amounted to 1.6 billion, which was essentially a third of all pension expenditure. A third had to be covered from the budget. Here we are, we have so much underfunded pension allowance and it is not surprising why pensions are as desperate in Slovenia as they are, because we do not contribute enough to them because the rates of contributions to pension and disability insurance were reduced 25 years ago and since then you have all been working as if this could remain as if the treasury could remain sustainable. This demographic fund that we have before us is basically just sand in our eyes. Even on the government's side, you keep stressing that this is not the ultimate solution for the pension fund now, but it's undertone all the time that it's a demographic fund. So we need a demographic fund because somehow in the next 30 years we will have to finance pensions from other sources if we want them to stay at some decent level. Of course, we agree with that, but the reality is quite cruel. There's very little state property left, 8.6 billion left, and it has to be said that if we compare it to what kind of hole we have, we'll see the following. I said earlier that the biggest hole in the pension register was created in 2013, at which time 1.6 billion euros had to be paid off from the budget last year, 1.5 billion euros. Do you know how much we've earned by selling state property so far? All together, since the beginning of the existence of the Slovenian State Holding Company, sales have brought EUR 1.6 billion. It is said that all sales combined in these years have brought so much to cover a one-year pension deficit, and nothing more. Now, of course, the question is also at what prices it was sold. I had previously read in Bloomberg that Photon, which was sold to the US fund for 18 million euros at a public auction -- we had already warned that it was a crime -- was sold further to the Chinese Treasury, if I am not mistaken, for 120 million, now the Chinese Fund is selling the company, according to Bloomberg, for 800 million euros. The company sold by this country for 18 million is sold by someone or would like to reach 800 million. And the second question is, how was this managed, how was this sold? But anyway, the property we have left can't make up for the pension fund. This year there will be €171 million in dividends, the projected hole in the pension fund for 2021 is $1.15 billion, according to a 1 billion difference between dividends from state assets and deficits in the pension treasury. And there's no mathematics to cover it for me in any way, not today, not in 10 years, not in 20, not in 30, it's not. Of course, this law promises even more. You say, not just a pension, this law will also make up for a family policy that, if I remind you, costs 600 million euros a year if we only look at family benefits and parental benefits, and you say, we will also solve the problem of building houses for older and long-term care in general, with the minister saying, your Minister Janez Cigler King, that it would take 300 million euros a year to do so. So if we put it all together now, the deficit in the pension fund, the need for long-term care, family policy, it costs 2 billion to just cover the minuses we currently have. The revenue from state-owned enterprises is 170 million. It is said that a thousand 830 million are missing so that this law can achieve the ambitions it has. Repeat, no math. We're not Norway. I've said that a lot. Of course, they have a different situation there. Oil as a natural resource that has been used wisely and has been filled by two funds, an oil fund and a pension fund. Each has about a thousand billion euros and each has about 8.9,000 companies or shares in companies around the world in its portfolio. And there, of course, is a completely different thing, you can promise yourself there, not only will the pensions be financed out of this, there can be a country, with relatively low taxes, also financing a lot of other things from this title, from the title of capital. But it's not like that with us. What can be done with state property? I think we should set ourselves goals that are achievable. With what we have, it would make more sense than to finance holes that we cannot cover, finance a technological breakthrough, establish a technology fund or something like that, and work on how to improve productivity in Slovenia, improve the value of an employee, and how to reduce holiday employment. There's one more thing to say here. When we talk about contributions and why pension contributions are insufficient, this information is interesting – we have about 1 million active populations in the country, the rest are pensioners, schoolchildren, students and so on, unemployed. One million is distributed as follows: 750 thousand full-time employees per month pay an average of 450 euros for pension and disability insurance, with 750 thousand regular employees, we have another 250 000 people who are in different penitentiary arrangements or self-employed – they on average contribute less than half a month at the monthly level or their employers contribute less at the monthly level, and there is also an important gap to be addressed, but we can address it by creating quality jobs and employment in a regular way. Since I am running out of time, I would like to draw only this line: there is no point, as I understand it, of this fund, in actually realizing the ambitions that are written on paper, this is family policy, pension policy and long-term care, because this cannot be achieved, because it is simply between abilities and needs that the gap is too great, but what it will achieve is that it will concentrate state assets to concentrate power. The Supervisory Board will consist of seven representatives elected by the National Assembly, usually meaning that they are elected by the coalition, four representatives of the Government, in the worst case scenario, the government and the coalition will have the entire supervisory committee under control and thus under the control of 8.6 billion euros of state assets and hundreds of thousands of jobs, hundreds or thousands of jobs, where anyone can place their people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Before we open a new circuit of applications, a replica. Mr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u132	Yes, very briefly. Dear fellow moon, we have never and never claimed or ensured that the demographic fund should completely replace the pension fund. That's not true. We just said that this would be an additional source and that this would make the pension fund more stable. On the other hand, Foton was sold in 2014, January. We know who the President of the Government was then and what coalition she was then.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[Yeah.]] I can see that. I'm opening a new application circuit. Please sign in. We have four panellists. He gets the word "magic." Dusan Verbic, prepare Mr. Sonibo Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I will be relatively brief, in fact, to say that, in my humble opinion, all governments, regardless of which they have been, since 2008, have been, literally, a very bad asset manager. However we may think here, facing this matter literally convinces me of what I have said. Many words, especially when I speak here in both the executive and the legislative branches of government, have been said how urgent it is to have corporate governance of state property. The fact is that, on a normative basis, as SDH, DUTB was established, that I will not speak before the Blue Insurance and the like, there are things that we can say in a positive sense that the so-called regulatory arrangements, including their statutes, are satisfactory and also the OECD, those who have somewhat followed this matter, may have found that they have given us a positive assessment of this salary. You know, the problem is especially with people who are entrusted with this kind of management. Of course, the so-called supervisory authorities or institutions carry much weight here, given that they have here, we are talking more in accordance with the Company Act and the related legislation, the main weight of the administration and the Supervisory Board. And if I conclude in this part, I can say that the criticism is that the management of state property in these good almost ten years has not been in favour of taxpayers. We are also convinced of this by individual cases, regardless of the type of political authority in which the Committees of the National Assembly are, the real supervision of public finances has often faced the content of individual cases that have literally called for some measures far from the rules of corporate governance. And now, if I'm going literally to the point. I have mentioned it many times since I mentioned it in the National Assembly, and today I am even more convinced that it is necessary and necessary to concentrate the management of all state assets. Therefore, from this point of view, I also welcome this bill's proposal, because literal governance and supervision are somehow defined and a system is being put in place for this so-called single management. And I think if we look a little bit wider, even the so-called corporate system, if you don't have literally concentrated management in some so-called legal person, then there's also some kind of control or a comprehensive view, it's just almost gone. So far, this practice of managing state assets has shown that this dispersion of governance in many segments corresponds to that of many. And what I personally find most disturbing is that I believe that, over the years or beyond, no matter which political authority will be in power, that somehow this poor practice of managing state property will be slowly eliminated and that everything will not be so gravely packed under so-called business secrets and all possible things that go solely in favour of the interests of owners or taxpayers if we talk about state property. That is why I can say, as I mentioned, that I very much welcome this bill because I think it is a very good way forward. However, it is certainly interesting and also necessary to point out, once again, we will be key in the decision when making persons who carry this so-called management of the joint manager of the state property. Of course, there is the greatest weight on the members of the Supervisory Boards and, as a result, on those who are directly executors of interest, where the question is immediately asked whether we will have a happy hand in appointing these persons, because before appointment, we know that we have a wide range of experts from such or other perspectives and there is also a reference and a very large promise of how well so many billions of assets can be managed. However, the weakness is, as is partly the case in the private sector, that those who are given the opportunity in such important places of the operator to ask whether this management is actually being carried out in the interests of the company itself, in this case the company we have before us, or whether it is in the interest of those persons who are given this opportunity to manage it, or perhaps in a different direction. I think there will certainly be an interesting debate in the National Assembly on this subject. If I conclude in this part, I am truly very much in favour of the merger, because I personally believe that this is really necessary so that there will be significantly greater control and control over the controller and the like. However, I would still touch on it because there was some debate ahead of me, again a little bit of the past and this so-called bank hole and so on. I must admit that I must warn you that some things have not been said just as they have been. The fact is that in 2012 and 2013, when we know that the force was harmful to taxpayers is a 5 billion-dollar bank hole, the recapitalisation of banks, one of the key issues where almost a third of this amount was also caused by the fact that the then executive branch of government has somehow decided that you are a private bank to support. And what happened to that? This literally burdened taxpayers, and it was said a little differently earlier, which was wrong, which is why I also comment, because when private banks were backed up, they had the greatest benefit from this by then owners, if I was specific: Factor Bank, Banka and so on. So it's better that we don't talk about this stuff anymore, because I think it's history now. But it is good that we sometimes touch it so that something like this will never happen again. For we must not play too hard with this state property, regardless of who is in the executive branch. Under the applicable legislation, the executive branch of the authority is the one which is the controller in the control of this state property. I believe that what I have already mentioned twice is a good follow-up, but it will certainly be an appropriate debate in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Mag. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u136	I would like to replicate my colleague Verbic because he misinterprets the events of 2012, 2013. It is necessary to be aware that debts must be paid. And if we didn't pay the debts back then, people and congregations would have no deposits, the borrowers would have to pay them off hypnotically and have a chain reaction to bankruptcy. The European Commission then found out and made it clear that if the bank, under conditions such as those provided by the European Commission, does not recapitalise, they will go bankrupt overnight. And we'd go and get the mushrooms and deposit them with the savers. And when we talk about the caution and wisdom of governance, we need to bear in mind the fact that we need to be careful of those who have created debts in the past. Because once the debt has been created, then the others who have to pay it have a headache for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next word is Mr Sonibo Knezak, Mr Marko Bandelli is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you, Vice President. I'll start this contribution if you'll calm your colleagues down.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u139	Dear colleagues, can you please consider outside what you have to deal with? Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you. In the introduction, I would like to agree with the predecessor, Comrade Verbic, especially in the part where he mentioned that we are all too busy with history in the National Assembly. Today, too, we have turned this very important topic, which we have today at this point, into some historical accounting, a finger-pointing, who is to blame, who has sold the matter in this country, has misconstrued. In short, I've had enough of these historians. Instead of looking ahead, instead of hearing about good or bad things that have happened in the past and who is to blame. For this reason, it is also my personal opinion that the mandate of Members should also be limited to two mandates, and we would also get rid of that. Finally, it seems to me that this inability to negotiate, if we did so in this country, would move to some higher levels, because it seems that in this composition, when years and years of one and the same, we cannot agree on the essential issues of this country. If I go back to the dark. We had a relatively sustainable pension system until 1996. Of course, problems have also been indicated, and demographic indicators have already made it clear that something will have to be done in the coming years, but unfortunately we are with someone, I would say, the populist quasi-deployment of the economy has reduced by half these contributions, now repeatedly told, to employers. And since then, we've had a problem in this pension box. The few hundred million up there that we're covering from the budget is just a fact that it is. I don't think it's such a bad solution, either. At the end of the day, we talked about the source of the country we're going to co-finance it. What is today is stable because there is a country in the back, each year the deficit that we have, as far as necessary, complements it. But demographic projections show that this issue will cause us more and more problems in the next 20 years. The amount we are talking about is two billion and a half to three, as far as the deficit is supposed to be approximately 20 years from now, but it is already such an amount that, in fact, for the state budget, it would significantly reduce the potential of some development projects and things, subsystems to be financed by the state from the budget. So that not only Slovenia is facing this problem. Unfortunately, we do not have oil, as mentioned earlier today. We need to find some acceptable solutions in the context of the property we have so that this pension system will work in the future, so that those of us before that, even any other pensions, will be there. A few steps and some extensions, although all of you are critical, this policy has already been done in the past decades, and that is exactly what the government of Janez Janša is. I think that at the time it adopted the starting points for this pension reform, at which time this demographic fund was somehow enacted, so that we also have in the ZPIZ Act and also in the SDH Law already defined the way in which the policy agreed to go, the real transformation of the Capital Society and the way in which we will partly cover this deficit, since no demographic deficit fund that it has is not fully covered, must be made clear to everyone. We're talking about whether this share is going to be a little bit higher or a little lower. However, it is likely that some solutions will have to go in more directions. I also think that in the direction that this problem has caused us to take the employers' contributions back under the scrutiny, because I think we are a failure to pay employees and employers. And I'm not one of them, I've worked in the economy for almost 37 years, far from being a burden on the economy, but we can agree on how we will finance this age of our lives to have some decent pensions. The measures taken so far in all so-called small pension reforms essentially reduced pension rights in only one direction. So today we have a category of social poverty, if a worker retires today, I could say that we have made one social poor - 600 more euros in pension. People would say it's not worth living to die, I apologize to the expression, but it kind of is. We have all the relatives, parents, old parents who share this story. For this generation, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have not done well in this way, this cannot be just in time for us. Not to say that we have been lowering the contribution rates from the top 10 years we have now gone to 24 years of calculation and introduced some more coefficients, in short, we are where we are now. I wouldn't be here right now pointing out who's to blame. All policy has been unsuccessful in recent years. We haven't been able to find any solutions. But today, there is only one thing that bothers me about this proposal, because you all guarantee it together, I wrote it down, nobody, and this government has been able to do it. In this way, respected colleagues and colleagues, as this government has dealt with, we cannot resolve such an important social issue in this way. The problem for all of us cannot be solved by a minority government with, I don't know, 43, 44 votes in a closed circle without dialogue. The Minister, who is not anymore, and which I must say otherwise, I must say, because one of the few ministers who was in all these PKPs, who were financially difficult here, personally explained them, long hours when we were sitting, was corrected here, was not offensive, but today that he was able to go to a payphone and lie to Slovenes and Slovenes, when – I had just written – that a broader public debate was held, a harmonised law. Who was he in line with? What broader public debate? In this country we have agreed on some ways of communicating on these important social issues, the Economic and Social Council is like this, it was not. I mean, you can't, in this way, probably some government might have already adopted some kind of proposal that would have gone through. As I am with the minister — even pensions have increased the most in the last year, that was his statement today. Of course, what are we doing, why do we have pensioners' demands? For the elimination of the injustices caused by the government of Janša with ZUJF. Years ago you made some commitments and today we are saving them by paying the pensioners back. So let's stop with these flossules. We had one proposal put forward by the Social Democrats, together with co-signers, which addressed this problem that we have. But the problem is, we have a financial deficit in the pension fund. We have identified the resources, and we have adequately secured them that they cannot be sold overnight without the consent of the National Assembly. We have enabled the accumulation of these funds with substantially smaller inputs, and not with the 8.6 billion funds that you will carry, but you will go to corporate property management and I don't know what else, in short, one mastodon that will serve everything, not what it has in its title. It has also been defined in this proposal to control those I think should be: employees, employers, young people, pensioners. Today, however, I see, Comrade Jurš, I have written this down somewhere – I do not understand these – Desus has been very difficult to understand for the past six months, but I am trying to understand him, he said that every policy so far wanted to have a hand over state property, and that this law was a necessary compromise. Seven of the eleven members of the Supervisory Board will be representatives of the government, and let's leave any one. What does politics have to do with some control of a fund that provides security for all of us together? What's he got to do? Once the system is arranged for supervisors to be held accountable for their assets by supervisors who will not just sit on paper. Tell me one member of the supervisory board who is already in prison in Slovenia today? I don't know what kind of contracts they're responsible for. In short, we're making a fool out of all of these, and there's no responsibility. None of them had their own supervisory boards in all of this property sales. No one did. Quality of professional supervision is the only solution for this, not that politics will interfere every time. Politics has been interfering for 96 years, which is why we have a problem today. In this part, I will conclude that I will leave some more to my colleagues and colleagues. In short, there is no other solution than to go somewhere in the direction of finding the actual means that will be allocated and will address the issues of this financial hole in one part, while at the same time looking for other resources that will provide a secure and, above all, a long-term sustainable pension system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u142	Madam President, thank you for your floor. It's a replica of two segments. A fellow Member of the Social Democrats said we could not save the demographic fund with the minority government. Look, the demographic fund should be established by law in 2013. 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 - you were in a government that had a historical majority, and then because of Zujf, Zujf was established because of the disastrous leadership of the Pahor government in 2009 ahead; because of the disastrous leadership of the Pahor government, Janšev’s government had to establish Zujf to save the country from bankruptcy. And if you really thought that this Zuyf you're talking about is so unnecessary, I'm asking why, from 2012 onwards or 2013, until 2020, when you had all the governments and you had scissors and linen in your hand, why didn't you stop it? You had 46 votes. The next day, with the takeover of the government of Alenka Bratušek, Zujf could be abolished. We could have stopped him. But you didn't because you knew that without Zuif, the country would sink.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u143	Procedural Mr. Sonibo Knezak, but let it be about the use of the Rules of Procedure [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you. I won't abuse it, don't worry, but it looks at least in the first part, and I won't comment on the second part, because it's not a procedural thing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u145	No, you can't comment either. With regard to the use of the Rules of Procedure [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u146	Because my colleague seems to have misunderstood me in this part. [[…]] I didn't speak for back for 2013, but I did. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u147	My friend Sonibo Knezak, I have to interrupt you at this point because it's a replica of a replica and it's not a procedural proposal. I suggest that you wait for a new round of applications and then apply for a discussion and explain what you disagree with your colleague, Pogačnik, because replicas on the replica are given in principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u148	Dear Vice President, if that's what you think, that's right. I still have some time, but I actually meant to formulate it as a procedural one, but I will also follow your recommendations. We still have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you for understanding. We continue the debate. Mr. Bandelli has his word. Prepare the mags. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I'm going to brief you on the last sentence of my colleague Mark, why Alenka Bratušek did not immediately terminate Zujf, and then I'll get right on other matters. Because it was a condition for Janša's resignation. Janša put it on the table to resign if Suif is confirmed, if you don't know it. Then how will she terminate it if it was a condition for him to resign. Let's be honest, let's say things the way they are. Zuif did a lot of damage. Of course he needed it at that time, but so far he's done a great deal of damage to the pensioners and everything he's done. But that's not the topic of today, let's talk about what is the demographic fund. In my position, in the position of our client, I have made it very clear how we see it. What the current government is offering us is not the right way. Let's be honest and say it right. It's not the purpose of the demographic fund this guy and this form, this architecture that's waiting for us here with the approval of this law. I understand and if you have read the OECD report, Europe itself wants to have as few countries as possible owned by the company and to interfere as possible with the economy. I understand that, Comrade Marko, and I also agree at a certain stage. But it depends on the country to the country how income comes to the income side of the country. And here we have to think about what's on the scale. And here is our fear of what we fear. But we are not afraid of you, who are now in government, the law that is now being passed at this time, is being adopted in the long term, so any government that comes into power will have the opportunity to manipulate and manage this property. Yeah, it's true, there's been a lot of hearing about how many companies have been sold, when, within what time frame. I'm not gonna talk about Mercator, because we all know that he was sold under the table during John Janš's time and then it just went on, but I'm not interested in this thing here. Certain companies were sold when they were no longer profitable and were also purchased from certain investors or speculators or from various financial companies that had already been sold. For example, Helios has already been sold twice. Twice. But it doesn't matter that much either. We are now talking here about one architecture of the demographic fund itself, which, in such a form as is presented, is not correct, is not properly set. It's not properly set for a number of reasons. There's a lot of reasons here. Every time the government could have it sold, and there are no security guards here, and there's a problem. I mean, I made it clear earlier in my position why he was going. We see a problem here. No one says that this government has now made or adopted this law because it wants to sell in the last six months when a certain company is in government. I can do that. I don't know, I hope, I don't know. But every next government will be able to work with it. And here I see a great man. I'm not against central management either, pal. I'm not against it. I think it's right to do central management. But also in central management, there must be absolute assets and all this stuff owned by the state. Here's the problem. What kind of guards are they to keep everything owned by the state? We must have one fund with which every time the government manages, but there is no possibility of selling. The sale must be decided by the National Assembly, no one else. That's all. Then another problem in this demographic fund is a very clear problem. The funds of this fund, which are designed, are not intended only for pensions, because it was the original plan of the demographic fund to guarantee certain constant and concrete revenues to create one fund that will give us security, for example, to me when I retire over, I don't know when, 20 years if I go, or to someone who will go in 10 years, and to someone who will go in 40 years, who will start working now. That's the whole point. And what guarantee do we have inflows, if you say so, into this demographic fund, if the same income coming in, reinvested in other things, for example for old people's homes, as you said. This must be from a different heading, this must not be financed by the demographic fund. Or investing in no other purpose that has nothing to do with this - housing policy. We don't have a housing policy. We don't have one housing policy in Slovenia, let's be honest. We don't have it. It's on paper. If the state gave 50 million a year to build new apartments, we'd have something in ten years, and it's not a big number, but no one remembers it. Non-profit housing, non-profit housing - municipalities must have their own funds or what it is. And if we're talking about the fund, you mentioned the funds earlier, the only fund that is urgently needed at this point is the retirement fund. You've never heard of him? The trust fund has all the countries except Slovenia, but I will not talk about it today. The man who looks at us here and wonders what's wrong with us, because we're essentially giving together some companies whose profits will be accumulated, these accumulations will go to one account if they say so, and then we'll use what's missing in our pension box. That would be all right and cool if this piece of money hadn't been used for other things. Here's the problem. It bothers me. It bothers me very much here. I also find it very disturbing that the OECD has put out that we are too many owners in the country, in state-owned companies. I mean, we're above average. Right, Secretary of State? This is the information that was written that we have to lower this property, if you say so, in these companies. But they do not realize that we in Slovenia have no other means of income. We don't. We don't. There's not much to say here. That's how much comes into the state budget, and we have to live on it. For this reason, we have put forward a proposal in the SAB, concrete proposals, because we can say we are protesting whenever I say, we are often protesting to see how the protest is, if you don't put two proposals on the table, it means it sucks. You can say I don't agree with that, but give it an alternative. This is a protest for me, and that's what we do in the SAB a lot. We have put precisely on the table, which proposals here should be an alternative, which sources, to provide constant additional resources in this pension, we call it the demographic fund. We said that water, for example, could be one of these, could be electricity, for example, one part, it could be, it could be constant resources, it could be constant. From gasoline, for example, we've closed down once, toll. It's just a system, you have to make one projection and see what it means to be a constant influx into this demographic fund, that's all. And we don't have that here. I didn't see that. But I've seen how funds, these funds that would be accumulated, would be used for other purposes. That's what I saw. That's what I saw, that's the fact of this marriage. And here we disagree, that's the problem. This sale, who's going to sell, who's been selling, when he was in the government, and what wasn't, we're talking about banks right now, what was going on, what wasn't happening, what was wrong, what was wrong, what was wrong. Who cares? We're talking about these billions now. We have 9 billion assets here and we're afraid of selling, we're out of fuses, that's the fact here. And once again, in my opinion, we need to think here about the additional, constant revenue in this, we call it, the demographic fund and the protectors, because this law can be adopted. I know there's a lot of resistance to this, and there's a lot of signatures coming together for the referendum. But there are reasons why this is done. But you, to fix those basic things that we ask, don't. I'd rather with my head through the wall to stay the way it is, as if we accepted some of our amendments or whatever it takes to fix it and do it the way it has to be. Good, because I think that more than that there is no point in even discussing it, because the other points are still on. These days are quite specific. This is my thinking at this point and absolutely me in such a form, in such a person, in such a system as is written here, in such architecture we in the client of the SAB in such a way unfortunately cannot support this matter for the time being. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u152	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Very briefly. I do not know where colleague Bandelli found the condition of the resignation of the government of Janez Janša with the acceptance of Zujf before the arrival of the government of Alenka Bratušek. Zujf was adopted on 11 May 2012, and the government of Alenka Bratušek performed its mandate in March 2013, so this statement is not valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The debate will continue. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Look, two words are the most plastic describing the main features of this demographic fund, which is not, and these two words are theft and sale. First, thefts - by law, employees in both the public and private sectors lose control of the management of supplementary pension insurance funds, which is absolutely unacceptable. And secondly, the sale - the law actually opens the door to the full sale of assets for current consumption, I'll call it the re-janshistic clicks for their distribution of candy around and other things, which is unacceptable when we know, we've been talking for months or years, if it's necessary that the pension box from year to year is more empty, that we actually need the resources to have our craftsmen or we, the generation that will need pensions over the years, from where to draw funds for these pensions. And instead of establishing a demographic fund that actually accumulates these funds for the future, you are today creating a quasi-demographic fund for current consumption. This is the wrong world. While I agree that we need funds for the elderly, we need funds for family policy, but these resources need to be drawn from the budget. The country's priorities need to be set, not that you are now painting people here, so that you will use the demographic fund to allocate funds for current consumption, so that you will, I don't know, give the PKP candy to the priests and to those third friends of yours. I'm sorry, that's unacceptable. And for the last time, I call on the National Assembly not to adopt such a harmful law, a law that leads to an intergenerational conflict, in a long-term intergenerational conflict, this National Assembly. You're breathing on the back of the gills, it's over, it's over with this government. And in these last moments, you're trying to make this Slovenia worse. But if you accept it tomorrow, we're ready. We're going with the unions and all the advanced forces to the referendum. And the well-respected and respected, united people are invincible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u156	Yeah, I'm just suggesting to my colleague Koprivec that he reads the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u157	Honestly, it wasn't a replica, if we're being precise, but [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, you don't have the right to answer either, mag. Koprivc, unless you report to the debate now in the new round. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] I see you don't. Then we conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 86a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 86.b and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. I'm closing the debate. This has also exhausted the amendments. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 33. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST REFERENCE OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION LAW ON PHARMACEUTICAL ACTIVITY. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of six Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Baby Verbich. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovci requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. First of all, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Dušan Verbich, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Vice President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The implementation of pharmacy activities in an ageing society, to which Slovenia certainly belongs, is increasingly important, and it is expected that this will also increase. Data show that people are increasingly benefiting from pharmacy services and therefore it is essential that all are given more adequate access to medicines under the same conditions. Deregulation of pharmacy activities can also help, as experience shows that this is usually aimed at increasing the availability of medicines and lowering the prices of medicines in the sale itself. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce to you a proposal to amend the Law on Pharmacy in front of us. The proposal to amend this law contains only 11 articles, of which, according to my assessment, the users of the pharmacy services themselves are important and for their benefit only two articles. More than just for the sake of knowledge, the law in force contains 132 articles. The purpose of the pharmacy activity is to ensure quality and effective supply of medicines and other products to support and maintain health and to advise on their safe, correct and effective use by patients and healthcare professionals. I think we all agree that the services themselves are at a satisfactory level in pharmacies. Or these services are also economically beneficial for all of us users, who often visit pharmacies, but another question is. In this regard, we must ask ourselves whether a pharmacy activity is primarily carried out in the interests of the user, the citizen, the patient, the person who needs advice to use a painkiller. I received an answer to both questions by visiting two different pharmacies, the Dolenjska Pharmacy and Lekarna Ljubljana. In doing so, I obtained two different sales items that were comparable and possibly the most sold. I'm not going to do commercials on individual products, but I have to expose them. Lecadol, 20 tablets, and a bandage of protective face masks, such as we have in the National Assembly, in a package of 50 pieces. The findings are as follows. Lekadol, Dolenjska pharmacy: 3,61 €, Pharmacy Ljubljana: 3,24 €. The difference between one pack, where there are 20 tablets, is 35 cents, which means that the average family as a user of this supportive medicine saves a few euros on a monthly basis if it buys it in Pharmacy Ljubljana. Protective face mask, 50 pieces, Dolenjska pharmacy: 47,50 euros, Pharmacy Ljubljana: 5,15 euros, which means a very big difference and I will not discuss it again. The question is, where are the inspection institutions and what is the role of the Pharmacy Chamber? I did a comparison with only two sales items, what would happen if I took 10 or more of the things they offer in pharmacies across Slovenia. Therefore, it can be justified to decide why prices are so different and who benefits greatly from this. Do pharmacies actually function as a priority in the interest of the patient of the citizen or do they have an interest in their own establishment, perhaps even the current suppliers? This is precisely why certain changes are needed, allowing for the establishment of a free economic initiative in the Republic of Slovenia as well as in the field of pharmacy activities. This creates the possibility of self-suppliers of pharmacies, frees up competition and consequently leads to lower prices of services in pharmacies. This would be the implementation of a pharmacy activity in the first place for the benefit of citizens. For those reasons, and also in the discussion below, I believe that the reasonable preference is the proposed amendment, since the establishment of a pharmacy is at the primary level within the exclusive competence of the municipalities. For once, thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We should continue to present the opinion of the government representatives, but there is no one on the part of the Government, so we are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups. First, Mr Branko Simonovic will take the floor and present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! At first glance, the amendment of the Law on Pharmacy is short, but the content of the proposed changes is significantly affecting the system of pharmacy activities in Slovenia, so in the Desus Group we of course welcome the regular legislative procedure for dealing with such important matter. In the introduction of the text of the amendment, the applicant presented data on changing the age structure of the population and data on the projected ageing trend in the future. As a result, the increased use of medicines is being recorded, and citizens and citizens are increasingly being affected by pharmaceutical services. In our view, there is also another reason for us to approach carefully and cautiously any changes to the existing system, which is currently well-managed, in the opinion of many. The text on our tables today advocates the thesis that deregulation of pharmacy activities will help to make medicines more accessible and lower prices. However, experience from other EU countries, which have already approached deregulation in the past, shows a different pattern. The free market has caused a lot of problems, because medicines are not generally marketable goods, and protection of public interest in this area is essential. The pharmacy activity is part of a health activity in Slovenia today and is carried out as a public service. This is a particular type of activity which is not intended to generate profits but to provide quality and effective supply of medicines and other products to support treatment and maintain health. It is also an independent and professional advice on the safe, correct and effective use of medicines for both patients and healthcare professionals. The proposed novelty, which therefore introduces innovations in the context of the deregulation of pharmacies, also changes the definition of the concept of gravity and the regulation of the situation of daily and seasonal migrants in determining the pharmacy network. We fear that this change would lead mainly to the collapse of the pharmacy network in smaller places. Opening more pharmacies in urban centres due to daily migrants would result in the closure of pharmacy units at the outskirts, which is certainly not what we want. In this way, those who use it most would be deprived of this important service, i.e. older people who are less mobile. The proposal repeals the prohibition of so-called vertical connections, i.e. the establishment of its own suppliers by public pharmacies. In the Desus Group, we have already advocated the interruption of vertical connections in the past, because we believe that the institution and the operator of the pharmacy activity must be completely independent in the management of their work. This is the only way in which we can assess the professional independence of pharmacists in public pharmacies whose basic guidance must be individual health care and public health protection. By prohibiting vertical connections, our assessment minimizes the economic impact of manufacturers and wholesalers on the performance of pharmacy activities. On the basis of the arguments presented in the Desus Group we do not support the law and we will vote in favour that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Hello! We presented to the National Assembly a new Law on Pharmacy Activities, which would, inter alia, amend the criteria for the establishment of a pharmacy network at the primary level. As one of the criteria, we would add the number of inhabitants and daily and seasonal migrants in the pharmacy area. We would allow the Ministry of Health to open new pharmacies or branches at a distance of less than 400 metres, in an urban environment and 5 kilometers to others, if the needs of the population so dictate. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to provide medical supplies and therefore it is not possible to restrict them by establishing public institutions only to neighbouring municipalities. This will ensure that medicines are accessible to all under the same conditions. The European Union has an average of 32 pharmacies per 100,000 inhabitants and we have only 16. Daily migrants need more pharmacies, so the municipalities should decide for themselves how many pharmacies they have and where, rather than being determined by the state. They would also allow advertising of certain services carried out within the pharmacy business, as this is not currently acceptable. They would also abolish the prohibition of vertical connections. The law would provide that public pharmacies can set up an organisation whose main activity is the supply of medicines. The proposed changes will have a positive impact on health-care expenditure as it will make it possible to afford and reduce the prices of medicines for free sale. At the same time, public pharmacies will be able to operate more easily and less public funding will be needed to finance them. The pharmacy activity works well for us. We have also seen this at the time of the epidemic, as pharmacies and pharmaceutical professionals have been available to patients all the time. We note that amendments to the legislation governing pharmacy activities are still necessary. Since 2019, there has been a promise that the necessary changes will be prepared by the profession in cooperation with the Ministry of Field Affairs. Some of the members of the unconnected Members' Chamber of Deputies were also co-proposals of the amendment to the Act on Pharmacy at the end of 2019. First of all, we wanted to achieve an end to the ban on vertical connections, but since this proposal did not receive support, it was agreed that the time limit within which the vertical ban should be lifted should be extended. In this case, the Minister of Health should re-analyse the drug market in our country and examine whether this ban is relevant in particular in the light of the fact that the four-year tender for medicines for medicines for medicines for medicines for medicines worth €1 billion at the end of last year. In the invitation to tender, the Chamber of Pharmacy banned drug dealers from competing with the price, did not allow the placing of discounts at the maximum permitted prices of medicinal products, and also limited the remaining types of discounts to a maximum of 4 %. This call showed that there is nothing wrong with avoiding such negative practices with the vertical link between public pharmacies and velodrogerists in our country, because acting in such synergies brings benefits to public health and patients rather than following the interests of private owners who, of course, tend to higher the cost of medicines and lead only to profit. At that time, the Competition Protection Agency gave an opinion in which it considered that “the contracting authority, by conditioning the offer price and limiting the discounts, unduly restricts the entrepreneurship of the tenderers and limits that the tenderers, according to economic theory, would appropriately adapt their behaviour on the market and make offers at actual market prices and actually compete. The contracting authority’s behaviour prevents a large savings in the public funds allocated to medicinal products.” End of story. As co-proposer of these novelties, I am pleased that we have been able to extend the deadline for the implementation of Article 26 of the Law on Pharmacy, which prohibits pharmacies from owning wholesalers. We have thus achieved that two of the largest pharmacy vertical connections have been maintained. The pharmacy Ljubljana has its velodrogerist, LL Grossist, the Municipality of Maribor, and indirectly Lekarne Maribor, as well as the Farmadent. With this, we have allowed these wholesalers to operate smoothly for at least two years. Thus, the public Pharmacy Maribor and Lekarna Ljubljana, which purchase medicines from LL Grossist and Farmedent, could still offer medicines at a lower price to their inhabitants than pharmacists offer to pharmacies and municipalities, as well as to pay the profits they can make for the development of public health, for primary health and for the improvement of the pharmacy network. That is why the Municipality of Maribor then stopped the sale process. However, since last year the Constitutional Court rejected the Lekarna Ljubljana initiative to assess the constitutionality of the provisions of this law which prohibit vertical links, the pressure for the sale of both wholesalers has resumed since the extension of the deadline expires this year. Thus, the Maribor City Council re-adopted this April a programme for the sale of a domestic drug wholesaler, Farmadent, and the programme does not yet constitute a sale decision. As a Member of Parliament and a Maribor City Councillor, I am concerned that the sale of Farmadent would endanger a lot of quality jobs and one of the more successful domestic companies would hand over uncertain fates in foreign hands. In the previous mandate, Maribor Municipality transferred the company owned by the Maribor Pharmacy directly to the founder's municipalities, but this change of ownership, according to the Ministry of Health, does not allow the Farmadent to avoid the prohibition of vertical connection. Although the municipal council of the Municipality of Maribor had adopted a sales programme, I expressed the expectation that a law containing a ban on vertical connections could be amended before the deadline for sale. That is why I will do everything in my power to ensure that the Municipality of Maribor and the founders' congregations remain the owners of the Farmadent, and I am not alone in these efforts. I would like to point out that the European Union does not prohibit vertical connections as it wishes to show. The Court of Justice of the European Union has laid down that restrictions on the ownership and operation of pharmacies are permissible when it comes to the protection of public health and when a Member State so decides. Therefore, in some Member States of the European Union, wholesalers are allowed to establish pharmacies and to establish pharmacies for wholesalers, while in others this is prohibited. We will decide tomorrow whether we are practical and smart or not. Some countries have opted for such a ban because some private-owned wholesalers have either picked up or set up more pharmacies in individual countries. Let me tell you that in 2020 the entire drug market in Slovenia amounted to EUR 767 million, of which 217 million in hospitals and 545 million in pharmacies. Compared to last year, the pharmacy market grew by 5.4%. The market value of prescription medicines was €482 million and €63 million without a prescription. The decision to ban vertical connections, i.e. vote against this law, will therefore be a happy news for the multinational McKesson Europe, as well as for the second largest drug dealer in our country – Salus. Both LL Grossist and Farmadent are in the way. If the biggest wholesaler of competition were to buy them, she could sell even more medicines herself to the largest public pharmacies in the country, Ljubljana and Maribor, at prices and conditions that would not underlie the public health treasury and the patient's pocket. Let me remind you that in the case of LL Grossista and the Farmadent, it is about 20% of the market, which is 160 million annual revenues from the sale of medicines and a few million euros in profits. This would make the drug market a duopol, as the only serious player on the Slovenian market would remain Salus and Chemofarmation, which are already the largest. The US-owned chemopharmaceuticals control the market with about EUR 300 million, little less Salus, and it is worth mentioning that its stock structure is so hidden that actual owners cannot be identified. The very existence of wholesalers such as LL Grossist and Farmedent should therefore be in line with the public interest in public health, as more competitors on the market represent a lower price for medicines for patients and public health institutions, hospitals and pharmacies buying these medicines. Vertical connections allow for the provision of medicines to public pharmacies by their own suppliers in an appropriate and more efficient manner, and I refer to as a special priority the fact that they remain funds from the trade activity of the municipality or from public pharmacies which may be allocated to the development of public health activities and are not a profit of a foreign owner. Why? Because we can find the following entry on the kemofarmation website: “We are a private-owned company with the dominant share of the foreign owner McKesson Europe, the leading international wholesaler and retailer of medicines. We do not publish more detailed individual data on our business plans and results publicly. They are included in the presentation of the business results of the majority owner.” End of story. Whether this law will be adopted depends not only on the future of Farmadent but also on the quality of the public pharmacy and health network in several sub-divisional municipalities. The question is whether the Municipality of Maribor will still be able to afford similar decisions after the sale of the Farmedent, such as the fact that it will pay EUR 1.25 million from the surplus of the Maribor pharmacy, which will be allocated to the health stations of Tezno and Tabor. Or else, and this will make you realize, this profit will be paid to the owners of Chemofarmation, McKesson Europe, or McKesson Corporation, which has 170 billion dollars a year. I would also like to recall once again that the Pharmaceutical has been sold several times and that in 2018 Salus made a binding offer for the purchase of 91 % and the sale process was stopped because it demanded that owners should not pay their profits. Those who are longer in the National Assembly may recall that in the above mentioned 2017 and 2019 novels, Salus and Chemopharmaceuticals have a strong biased interest in politics, because some have not even hidden it and even publicly admitted that they are interestingly connected and therefore also advocate that this prohibition of vertical connection remains. I warn you that we are talking about money and not medicines in relation to this law and the prohibition of vertical connection. If the law is rejected, LL Grossista and Farmedent will be forced to sell under duress, and the purchase for the owners of the public pharmacy and municipalities will be shamelessly low. Customers are aware of this and will take advantage of it without shame and without mercy to our detriment and to the benefit of a foreigner if you want an unidentified owner. The price offered for the purchase of the Pharmaceutical in 2018 amounted to a ridiculous EUR 8.7 million, compared with its estimated value between 20 million and 30 million. Voting on this law will show whether we are capable of preventing the loss of profitable enterprises owned by public entities, pharmacies and municipalities. I will do everything in cooperation with some colleagues from the Group of Unbound Members in order to protect the interests of Maribor and Ljubljana public pharmacies, as well as six Podravic municipalities. This will protect the public interest in public health, as more competitors on the market represent a lower price of medicines for patients as well as for public health institutions, hospitals and pharmacies, as well as for homes for the elderly who buy these medicines. The municipalities and public pharmacies will be able to devote profits to improving the pharmacy network or to the health network at the primary level. In summary, today's debate and tomorrow's decision will show whether, as a legislator, we are able to turn the law into a favour for our people, they will show that if we understand the directive as a directive or a dictatorship in Slovenia, they will show that, as a liberal society, we are able to resist the interests of multinational capital in our own favour and rational, prudent, dedicated and smart way to enable domestic golden geese to roll their golden eggs at home, whether we will kill geese and just foie gras – the guests of the liver humbly to the renegade strangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the following word and will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Nice greetings again to all present! This time, the law under consideration follows an interest in changing a number of different matters. Whoever is accompanying such an area knows that the main purpose of the proposaler is to stop the imprudent operation of the relationship between the manufacturer and the consumer, the other changes are just a smoke screen. Horrible pressures must be at the back of this area's desire to settle for the second time in this mandate. The pharmaceutical lobbies are extremely strong, controlling the ever-increasing different segments of our society, after all, the production and processing of food. A huge amount of capital comes into the farm from the basic motive that there is a high value for health among people. The question is, when are we going to be able to resist this, if not at all? If the law is adopted, it will force the sale of pharmacy products that are in the interests of the pharmacy owner, but which are not always in the interests of our consumers, so it will be capital again, not individual. The proposed novelty certainly does not serve the basic purpose of the pharmacy. Pharmacies should provide products for human health regardless of who the manufacturer is, as only in this way can they provide appropriate professional advice. If the owners of a pharmacy company operating only on economic logic, the offer would be limited and the services would certainly be less professional than they are today. Much has already been said that the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia itself opposes the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Lenart will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, submitted for consideration by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dušan Verbič, namely the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, ZLD-1, does not meet the expectations of local communities and users after the quality provision of prescription medicine services, other medicinal products and certain medical devices. How important it is that all users have access to the pharmacy service under the same conditions, and it has also been shown during the epidemic due to infectious covid-19 disease, say the proponents. The proposed amendment of the law refers to an increase in the need for pharmaceutical activities and thus to additional, new concessions for pharmacies. The proposal for the ZLD-1C law proposes an amendment of 11 articles, including three important articles, and we have also proposed that the law be dealt with on a regular basis in the Slovenian Democratic Party. More important changes are therefore: the change in criteria for the network of drug users; the next important change is in the management of public pharmacy institutions, namely the Institute of Directors and the regulation of the interrelationships of so-called exclusion of the condition of conflict of interest; then there are vertical links. As the Ministry of Health has stated in its interpretation or opinion, the preparation of the ZLD-1 has taken into account all the professional standards and other applicable laws, notably the Medicinal Products Act and the positive and negative experiences from our environment and abroad. The main focus was the professional independence of pharmaceutical professionals. Among other things, the ZLD1 was adopted because of the European Commission's disagreement and, among other things, the unconformed criteria for setting up pharmacies followed the EU Directive. The Ministry of Health and the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia also argue that all stakeholders were involved in the adoption of the existing legislation, so that a compromise was reached for the benefit of all, and that concern for people was at the forefront, which is the priority of pharmaceutical professionals today. The reason for the prohibition of vertical connections in both directions is the purpose of the provisions of Article 26 of the ZLD-1, by which the legislator absolutely prohibits vertical connections, JV, professional independence to pharmacists, whose primary responsibility was the care of individual health and the protection of public health, minimising the economic impact on the professional decisions of pharmacists and the functioning of pharmacists in accordance with professional, ethical standards. In other words, it is necessary to ensure professionalism, accessibility, to monitor the needs of citizens for quality pharmacy services and to provide pharmacies with sufficient resources to cover the costs and personnel of the pharmacist. And it would be good for every pharmacy to have at least one qualified consultant at the level of the Master of Pharmacy. These are not theoretical requirements and conditions that anyone would allow to copy from elsewhere, these are the results of experience and practice and the current situation on the ground. While the opinions differ, we again have proponents of the proposal and opponents. Some of us feel that the proposal would undermine the balance of accessibility. There is an opinion among the smaller municipalities and the population there that the proposed regulation would further move public pharmacies into the urban environment and eventually disappear in the countryside. This is also the theory or forecast of the pharmacy chamber. Again, other major groups of pharmacies, such as the Public Institute of Pharmacy Ljubljana, are for a more liberal approach and to reduce restrictions on the opening of new pharmacies, if necessary. This is opposed by private pharmacists, concessionaires. The bill is also intended for a more liberal development of the pharmacy system and a more free initiative. But there's another thing to know. Pharmacy activity is closely linked to health care wherever it is. It is also compulsory to ensure public health protection. Therefore, completely without regulation, the legislator will not be able to do so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not want all of a sudden, due to the total liberalisation of the system, all of the creams and ointments and the expertise would fall. Nor can we pass the fact that a serious appeal has been made by local communities to the Pharmacy and the Ministry of Health to ease the conditions so that municipalities can provide their citizens with better and faster medical services in their local communities. In order to ensure professionalism, accessibility and comprehensive pharmacy services, we have decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the basis of the opinion that the proposal brings some good and some lacking solutions. We will not oppose or support the Act on Pharmacy or the conclusion that it is suitable for further consideration, where it will be further refined with common powers and knowledge, to achieve the primary objective of pharmaceutical activity – care for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer is next. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u168	I am pleased that the proposaler has gathered courage and, of course, has tabled a proposal for a law that we have repeatedly discussed in the National Assembly. The main and basic purpose of the Act on Pharmacy Number One has been achieved – that at that time certain issues have been addressed comprehensively and very qualitatively in the Law on Pharmacy. Of course, at least three or four views remain open today. We are talking about Galenian products, we are talking about advertising, we are talking about vertical connections and we are talking about, of course, the conditions for opening new pharmacies, of course, given the conditions laid down in the law. Today we are talking about more or less just two things – we are talking about a vertical and we are talking about an area where there was a lot of talk about opening up and possibilities for community integration and cooperation in putting pharmacies into space. Let me first talk about the first part - vertical related. All those who speak and discuss today or discuss how a vertical link is good and ensures the independence of pharmacists, then, given that this provision has not been established at all and has never been established in the country, I ask whether pharmacists are now independent. Actually, if that's true, then I wonder what's wrong with our pharmacists. In fact, this provides that if the law is not amended, it will only enter into force at the end of the year or with 1. 1st of next year. So all those statements about the independence of pharmaceuticals from vines are twisted. The other thing that is important in the vertical itself is that you know that there is one rule in the world, the OECD and the World Organization of the United Nations have clearly predicted that the three sectors that will be the most important in the next 50 years and will also be the most developed, these are food production, care for the elderly and the pharmacy, and this is also the subject of fighting in our Slovenian space. We have 40 Grosses in Slovenia, I repeat 40 Grosses, but only four are players in this room. Everything else is, if you look at the Biza survey, you will see that it is in fact practically the majority of companies that do not actually have a single euro of traffic or three smaller companies, which are in fact in ownership. Two of these are related to two large companies, which are involved in breaking up the vertical link in public work. Chemofarmation, of course, is owned by Vitafarm, who works with 15 million, and Salus who bought it, the one you don't know, Sanolabor. And everywhere Sanolabor writes, it's actually owned by Salus. This is a very important information, because I will have to correct my colleague, which is not about 20 per cent on the market, which is being addressed by two Grossists, it is called Maribor and Ljubljana, but it is practically about 30 per cent. And this is very important for these two companies, who, of course, know that if the provision of 1 applies. 1. 2022, they will finally receive additional money in their portfolio, which is very important from the following address. The Chemofarmation company, which is owned by Germans or Americans abroad, will, of course, be rewarded for having practically more than a third share in the Slovenian market. I come to Salus, who has hidden owners, and we all know exactly who they are, and they are Slovenians, and he will finally be able to sell this company with a new market share for significantly better money, and that is exactly what I predict will happen if we let this happen. Why is that important? Because in the end we will have only two players in the Slovenian space, two large wholesalers who will really set conditions will be able to stand on eyelashes, but conditions such as they will set out, and that is exactly what they will be able to sell. As far as regulation is concerned. In Slovenian space, we have two great regulators who are watching over what is happening with Slovenian medicines. One is the agency that clearly watches over what kind of medicines can be sold, and the other is ultimately, which is very important, and the health department, which determines the limit, what medicines will be sold at the price we supply by prescription. Why is that important? For in this part of the price is, of course, a variable part where profits are made. And that's the part where it's allowed, where the margin is created. And today, when we have grosists who are public-owned, I stress that they are public-owned, it is more than clear that there is a price difference and therefore aspirin is cheaper in Ljubljana than in Celje, if we want it or not. The moment we stop these Grosses, these prices are going to go up dramatically. They will grow because Lekarna Ljubljana will no longer be able to set a limit and provide its users with lower prices, but they will only be able to be sold by one of the two wholesalers. That's why those who pretend to solve all the problems - we won't. At the Ministry of Health, one person has, in fact, been working in Salus for years now, and today is at the Ministry of Health, creating and, of course, putting pressure on this vertical interruption. And it's not like that. And if we're going to cuddle our eyes here and hide and talk about some directives, that's true, we're only going to do a lot of damage in Slovenia. Tell me one argument, one single argument, why would we eliminate grosists who are practically owned by 100% of the pharmacy or in the Maribor case of municipalities, the local community. They would be abolished in order to be distributed to foreigners. One argument, smart argument. If the argument is the independence of pharmacists, tell me what role the pharmacist will play later when someone who is not a pharmacist is still in the pharmacy. Tell me. None. Independence and expertise are guaranteed by pharmacists with expertise and that they can say no when necessary, regardless of who controls the critter himself. That he's an important critter turned out to be at the time of the epidemic. Of course, you mock one of them, but the facts are the following. In Ljubljana, if there were no critters who provided an additional 8 million, the government's provisions, which stipulated that everyone could only receive one copy of the medicine, say, one product per prescription, would practically not be feasible. And I'll tell you why. Because there wouldn't be enough supplies. Officials already have a serious problem because they cannot really guarantee it. They don't have the capacity because they don't have that kind of capital either, so they know that they can't fight the big ones and so they're landing on all sorts of big wholesalers so they can obviously pull that deal, and that's the final sale. Of course, pharmacies are of particular importance. Pharmacy isn't a store. You're damn right, everyone who says you're right. However, the European Court made it clear that the Grosses are part of a free economic initiative. Because if that were not the case, Salus and Chemofarmation would not exist, so let's stop fantasizing and telling stories that these are critters of some special significance. Because they didn't. Anyone can have them. Finally, you need to know something, the University of Ljubljana also has its own companies, which it establishes. According to this logic, let's say, let me give you an example, I don't understand why in one part of the public sector we ban it, in the other part we massively allow it. In short, these things just don't go together and last. The second part, which is important in this law, is, of course, restrictions on when and where pharmacies can be established. Some congregations are fearful and some of you today have also expressed publicly what you have read in the documents they have sent to all of us Members and Members of Parliament, which is that there is a fear and fear that pharmacies will now mainly be established in cities. Of course, this simply does not hold up, because if this were true, then pharmacies, let's say in particular Pharmacy Ljubljana, which also has the most interest at this moment, would not be establishing a pharmacy where banks started and the post office shut down their businesses. Just the opposite is happening. It is true, however, that it does not open up where the local community does not show interest. In the final stage, there is a pharmacy activity at the primary level, which means that the local community must decide. In the Republic of Slovenia we still do not want and do not want to give the local community the valid one, which is local self-government, which is independent of the country, and therefore we want to have the new consent of the Pharmacy Chamber and at the same time the Ministry of Health. I'm asking you nicely. What the hell! Will the Ministry of Health now know better than local communities where the need for a pharmacy is, and how is this network divided? The Ministry of Health, excuse me, one person, once again one and the same person is proposing to the Minister what will be the solutions in the area of the pharmacy network. That is why I find this measure extremely inappropriate. It is true that the Ministry of Health granted another measure of its kind, which was that Ljubljana started when it wanted to open a pharmacy, said that it was an important number of people. The number of inhabitants, I agree, is a criterion when we place different, different forms of public networks. However, it is necessary to take into account who comes into this city. We have found in the field of primary health that we actually have serious problems because there are other forms of people gravitating to certain places, namely students, tourists and day-to-day migrants driving to work. What does that mean? This, of course, means an additional inflow and pressure on the reception sites of certain services, health services, and in our case today we can also talk about the pharmacy network. And this is interesting, of course, because the Ministry of Health, according to a new statement, states that the number of people in Ljubljana is not only important in Ljubljana, but that the number of people in the fourth community is now decisive in the new world. It is something like that in another small congregation, where there are no fourth communities, not a significant number of congregations, but in fact a village community. I mean, we've really come to all the impossible ends with the fact that, of course, it's not written anywhere in the marriage. It's not even specified anywhere. This is simply some decision by an official again at the Ministry of Health, which in this way has been making it impossible for many years for certain things to be done. I'm thinking next. Actually, there is no competition between public pharmacies and private pharmacies, not really. All private pharmacists who have opened pharmacies with the concession know that, of course, with the capital they have at their disposal, mainly speaking from the point of view of warehouses, they can operate as much as they naturally have capital. Every major public pharmacy has this advantage, of course, because you know that under the law every pharmacy has to provide so much and so much supplies, so that it can be available at any moment for the needs that customers need, of course, significantly easier to afford and, of course, is faster in delivery. For example, if you come to the private and say you want some medicine, he tells you plenty of times, come back tomorrow and we'll get it for you. And in that one day, of course, a private pharmacist comes and supplies this medicine. If you come to a public pharmacy, he says, go to that store and they have it there, or, in an hour, you'll have this medicine just to get out of storage. Because they have significantly greater opportunities to afford such large stocks. Because the law is clearly written. And here, the Ministry of Health should allow concessionaires to significantly reduce this level so that pharmacists can supply those drugs that go significantly better and more on the market. But this is already a matter of discussion, so, of course, here I appeal to all of us Members and Members, let us at least once stick to one rule. The golden chicken that carries the golden eggs is nice to have them, but, please, let's not kill the golden chickens. Once we kill the golden chicken, there will be no golden eggs. There really won't be any. Local communities with money, as someone has said today, are making a profit to return it back to health care and to the sphere that enables people to live a better and healthier life. Once again, in Ljubljana, virtually all the roofs of elementary schools and kindergartens, made of asbestos, have been renovated by all health homes at the expense of this money. Tell me when Salus and Chemofarmation will give one euro for one kindergarten, for one school, for one medical outpatient. Never because the owners will be foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Bojana Mursich. It will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the past, the Pharmacy Act has been subjected to several attempts and amendments and additions. On several occasions he came to the Parliamentary bench by the Government, and several times the amendments and additions to the law on our bench came from fellow Members of Parliament. The amendments concerned different areas of the law. The common point in most of these was the removal of vertical links. Today's law also came from under the feathers of fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues. Applicants in the introduction point out that we are a fast-growing society across Europe that records an increase in the proportion of older people over 65 years of age. In their view, the implementation of pharmacy activities in an ageing society will become increasingly important. We will increasingly benefit from pharmacy services, and they believe it is essential that adequate access to medicines for all citizens and citizens be regulated by law. The main objective of the law is access to pharmacy services under the same conditions, provision of quality pharmacy services and quality and effective care of medicines. The solutions that have been conceived in the types of applicants regulate the gravity area and the situation of daily and seasonal migrants in determining the pharmacy network. Inadequate restrictions on the co-establishment of public pharmacies to neighbouring municipalities and the implementation of Directives of the European Union shall be removed. In the wake of the review of the law in the Group of Social Democrats, we have found that some solutions may be acceptable, and some solutions seem somewhat controversial to us. When we read the marriage proposal, we received quite a few opinions and views from different stakeholders, which are also affected by changes and additions. Responses are different. Some law supports and see good solutions in it, others point out again that the possible adoption of this law may still be harmful to pharmacy activities in Slovenia. In our views, we can read that the adoption of the law will have a lot of negative consequences on the public pharmacy network. The professional independence of pharmaceutical workers and the economic impact on the professional decisions of pharmacists are expected to be compromised. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is necessary to maintain, provide and strengthen the public network of pharmacies, which will provide our citizens and citizens with affordable and quality medicines and advice. We believe, however, that the novelties of the pharmacy law need to be addressed in a broader and deeper way, so we also propose that any problems identified and non-conformities be addressed. However, this removal must be carried out in a way that the content of the law will be included in the drafting of the law as widely as possible by the public and the profession and that in the end we will reach a legal material that will not create inconsistencies and will provide our citizens and citizens with a quality and publicly accessible network of pharmacies that will offer quality and affordable medicines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish is next. He will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We view the supply of medicines in this country in Levica as socialists in the same way as the health system – as something that does not make profits, as something that is not intended for business, but for satisfying the basic needs of citizens and citizens. If the Slovenian public health system has been the target of the privatisation siege for 30 years, if we are short for 500 million euros each year for investments in this public health system, it is still somehow in pursuit of a social mandate, this is the care of citizens and citizens with health services, the picture is slightly different in the field of pharmacy. To some extent, the area of pharmacy care is privatized, but this area is not liberalized. So, whether we have public pharmacies or we have private pharmacies, regulation is such that it protects people from various malversions or from the autochthonous tendencies of capitalism, which can sneak into just any sector as soon as the state lets it go. What are the consequences of drug supply as a business, we know. The greatest risk is probably the excessive use of medicines. If pharmacies operate as normal businesses, if they are not adequately secured by basic regulations, then, of course, they try to maximize profits by market principles. And how can a pharmacy maximize profits? Yeah, if it's a drug store, the only way to sell more drugs. And people who don't need drugs at all, or even harm them too much, come to the pharmacy, buy them, leave money in the pharmacy, consume them, do themselves harm, and harm the public health system. Fortunately, we are not yet in this kind of, we can say, the American situation in the supply of medicine in our country. The law we have right now is about right, but what we are dealing with today is very inappropriate — a typical lobbyist law, shot with lies and a series of wrong conclusions. His proponents say that we are a society that is old enough to have more and more day-to-day migrants, and they somehow manage to draw the conclusion that we need more pharmacies to do so. Which is not true at all. I can't imagine how these two can put together and come to the conclusion that we need more pharmacies, let alone more pharmacies, in a way that frees up regulations that now limit the transfer of pharmacies in a normal way. It's actually the mayor's lobby marriage, and that's all. I said earlier that the area of pharmacy in our country is to some extent privatized, but it is not liberalized. I have to get a little more detailed on this place when I say it's privatized. It can be legally privatised, someone runs a pharmacy as a private, has a concession, but we can have, as in the case of the Ljubljana Mayor and Ljubljana Pharmacy, a de facto privatised pharmacy owned by the public, but it works with it as a normal commercial feud. The results at the end of the day are the same. And the interest in the expansion of the mayor's lobby is at the back of this marriage. Of course, we support public pharmacies in Levica, but these public pharmacies must work for the public benefit and not simply turn into troughs, but instead sheriffs at local level. The law, as we see it, would mean monopolising, centralising and destroying smaller pharmacies, including pharmacy concessionaires, and eventually more pharmacies and increasing drug consumption, and not better health care or access to medicines for citizens and citizens. Another argument behind this law is that we have an average number of pharmacies in relation to the European Union. This information actually holds, but the sub-average in the number of pharmacies is actually a sign of development. Where's the least pharmacy? In developed countries, say Scandinavian. Where are the most of them? In sub-developed countries bordering the third world, such as Greece, Bulgaria and the like. Why is there the most pharmacy? Because of the worst health systems, especially public health systems that are intended to service needs, and consequently the health care of citizens and citizens is poor, people are treated on their own, as they know and turn to pharmacies for medicines, if they have the money to do so. As a result, greater sales of medicines without a prescription, dietary supplements. So they got more pharmacies, but they didn't get any more health. Even if we look at general health data, these countries have more pharmacies, higher drug consumption, worse than, say, Scandinavia, which has fewer pharmacies. Slovenia would like to move along a similar path with proposals such as today, if we know that we have been under pressure to privatise the public health system for the past year and a half. The devastating public health system, as I have already pointed out, will eventually translate into a greater consumption of medicines when people are looking for ways to help themselves. They will be much easier to help in some pharmacies if the number of pharmacies is increased and the regulations currently governing the pharmacy are relaxed. The Americanisation of pharmacy is therefore the main danger that we must be concerned about in this law. This deregulation will eventually result in market monopolisation, monopolisation or duopol formation. This intention can be interpreted by specific provisions in this law. This first redefinition of the gravity zones of pharmacies is in such a way as to include daily and seasonal migrants. It's some kind of quantitative, hair-attractive argument. If there are 6,000 people in one area, you have the right by law to establish a new pharmacy. This is already an existing regulation. If there are more than 2,000 500, you can set up a branch. Well, this law in this type of gravitational area of intervention would mean that more pharmacies with more aggressive commercial promotion can appear in the same territory. Similarly, the word “neighbors” is deleted in the provision that the network of pharmacy activities under this law is provided at the primary level by the municipality or several neighbouring municipalities together. It is said that the network at the primary level could also be composed of municipalities that do not border each other. If you didn't believe me before when I said it was a lobbyist law, then that provision certainly convinces you. Furthermore, the applicants complement and break an article setting out a network of pharmaceutical activities at primary level, an article setting out the minimum possible distance between pharmacies and pharmacies in urban and rural areas. Here they add that this paragraph does not apply if the consent of the Ministry of Health is obtained, but they continue to erase the need for the general consent of the Ministry of Pharmacy. And to conclude, they also ease the conditions for who can be the director of a public pharmacy. In particular, they delete the third indent of Article 33(3), which states that a director of a public institution may be appointed who is not at the same time a member of a board of the same or other public pharmacy, health or social security institution. To the conclusion. In Levica, we want a public network of pharmacies that would fully operate under the auspices of public authorities under the supervision of elected representatives and under the guidance of the pursuit of a social mandate and not of any profit. We have also fought for this in the past in this National Assembly in the previous term, in order, say, to prohibit a vertical link that would integrate retail and wholesale drugs, because we have convincing cases from other countries across the world more than enough of what this kind of market monopolisation means. However, the collateral damage to this cut in vertical links is, of course, public pharmacies operating under the municipal wing, which we have also proposed several times in the past that they should be subject to different provisions, so that, in the case of public instance under public auspices, there should not be any effect on the law and on the provisions of the law which prevent vertical connections, that public pharmacies or public velodrogerists are privatised at the municipal level, but should be allowed to operate in an organised manner. On the inside, I have already explained in my position, and there is another problem that, even if we have public pharmacy infrastructure here, we are dealing with mayors, local sheriffs who work with this infrastructure as a pig with fur, literally prey on it, instead of understanding their mandate for the welfare of people, for the achievement of social goals and not just some egotrip of power, and then people's health will be collateral damage to it. In Levika, of course, we will oppose this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we discuss pharmacy activities, in Novi Slovenija we represent the starting point for public institutions to take care of the pharmacy care of the population, in particular in areas that are not marketable for concessionaires, even in rural areas. In the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we reiterate that it is of utmost importance that all citizens have adequate access to medical care, regardless of whether the medicines are provided by a concessionaire or a public pharmacy, so there is no justification for differences in the interests of public institutions. Greater choice and lower prices are achieved by more competition than by monopolising the market in favour of the public institution, so it is important that the establishment of pharmacies is released, but not at the expense of lower expertise. The expertise of employees, which we need to pay particular attention to in pharmacy activities, is extremely important and crucial. Anyone who enters the pharmacy either after a medicine or medical device expects an employee, usually a Master of Pharmacy, to receive reliable instructions for taking medicines or using medical devices, as well as to answer any additional questions in the pharmacy for better knowledge of the medicine itself or medical device. The present bill entails, inter alia, a change in the definition of the gravity area, which would be followed by a new inclusion of daily and seasonal migrants in the pharmacy area. The possibility of setting up pharmacies at shorter distances than prescribed is also added if the needs of the population so dictate. In urban areas, 400 meters [400 m] is prescribed and in other areas, 5 kilometres [5 km] to another pharmacy. Members of New Slovenia will listen carefully today to the debate on the amendment of the Law on Pharmacy and our vote will depend on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! We have long known that we are facing inevitable demographic changes. With fewer births than in the past and longer life expectancy, we are facing rapid ageing of the population, which is expected to be more intense in Slovenia than on average in the European Union. According to the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the increase in the proportion of the population over 65 years of age will have a significant impact on the increase in expenditure on pensions, health care, long-term care and on others with ageing related expenditure. Slovenia stands out significantly in the future in comparison with other countries of the European Union. Ageing will also require changes in social protection, employment and policy responses in many other areas, including adaptation to the environment and services of older people. From this point of view, it can be concluded that there is a link between the expenditure of the Health Insurance Office for medical services and demographic changes, although the latter are not yet the only ones that have contributed to the increase in the resources allocated to the pharmacy activity in the last five or six years. However, the fact is that the implementation of a pharmacy activity in an ageing society, in which Slovenia certainly also belongs, is increasingly important. This is also indicated by data on the increase in the number of pharmacists per thousand people in Slovenia. In 2015, there were one thousand inhabitants of 0.58 pharmacists and in 2019 there were already 0.7 pharmacists. There is no doubt that people are increasingly benefiting from pharmacy services, but we must undoubtedly follow the objective of ensuring that medicines are adequately accessible to all under the same conditions. One solution that could lead to this objective is also deregulation of pharmacy activities. Experience has shown that this is usually aimed at increasing the availability of medicines and lowering the prices of medicines for free sale. Solutions in the Law on Pharmacy can be narrowed down into four sets. The first set refers to the concept of a gravitational zone. This concept changes by including daily and seasonal migrants as a new definition. The latter have an absolute impact on the effective supply of medicinal products and medical devices in a specific area. During their stay in a certain area, they also supply medicinal products and medical devices. In the second set of amendments, we may include those relating to our view to inadequate restrictions on the co-establishment of public pharmacies to neighbouring municipalities. According to the legislation in force, the municipality has the original competence to provide medicines, and it does not make sense to restrict them to neighbouring municipalities after the establishment of public institutions. This is the illogical restriction of municipalities in the exercise of their original competence, namely the provision of pharmacy activities at the primary level. Moreover, there is no solid reason why the congregation could not choose a more dense network than the network established by the law in force. The third set of amendments concerns the issue of the purchase of goods and services from connected persons within the public sector. The novelty removes the prohibition on the establishment of its own suppliers by public pharmacies, with the aim of ensuring the continued and stable supply of medicines to the population. However, the fourth set of amendments relates to the possibility of concluding contracts under which a public institution could carry out its activities in the territory of another contracting party. Such a solution would be particularly helpful to small municipalities where the establishment of their own institution would not be appropriate. We will support the amendment of the Law on Pharmacy in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u178	Dear President! There are no government representatives. Fellow Members and Members! The main amendment to the existing law concerns the abolition of the prohibition of so-called vertical links. A valid prohibition of vertical connections in a simple language means that public pharmacies must not establish their own suppliers or wholesalers for the supply of medicinal products. The prohibition of vertical connections has been in force since December 2016 and in a transitional period ending at the end of this year, public pharmacies have to adapt their operations. This means that they have to cut ties with their velodrogerists or sell their home tradesmen, even forcing them to sell. The question of how the price will be achieved is an unpleasant force and the answer is simple, very low. Public pharmacies would be given a new opportunity to set up their wholesalers, as some actors welcome. They estimate that public health is so important that the situation of public pharmacies cannot be fully compared with private pharmacies. Private pharmacy vertical integration is not allowed right now, but with the exception of such connections for public pharmacies, this does not lead directly to the unequal position of the private sector, since certain derogations and exceptions are allowed for public pharmacies as well as public health institutions. Otherwise, there can be a situation where private drug providers are burning prices on the market. In view of the broader and taking into account the views of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the abolition of the prohibition of vertical connections is only discriminatory for public pharmacies, as it places private pharmacies in unequal situations. The latter apply 100 % of the ban on establishing its own wholesalers; in an unequal situation, 107 wholesalers with privately owned medicines and 87 private pharmacies could be taken to an unequal position by lifting the ban on vertical connections, according to the housing organisations mentioned above. In the SAB Party, we stress that the pharmacy activity is a public service and part of a health activity whose main purpose is to protect public health and provide adequate medical care. Whether a pharmacy is carried out in the framework of a public institution or a concession granted to a private person, it is a highly regulated activity both in Slovenia and in the European Union, and so is the case. Most European Union countries allow horizontal integration or integration with specialised trade, while vertical integration in general is not allowed. In neighbouring Austria, vertical integration is possible but is limited, and in Finland, for example, both horizontal and vertical integration is prohibited and the Netherlands is a third case where the country has never set geographical or demographic criteria for the opening of pharmacies. We stress that a daily or seasonal migrant will be able to decide for himself where to buy medicines, either in the municipality where he is at home or in the city where he has a job, so the proposal is made by the unfavorable municipalities of Slovenia, while the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has concerns about this. This is also a direct fuse for smaller pharmacies in rural areas. Even today, people in rural areas can tell you that they want pharmacies in their place, but this cannot be done without the congregation’s consent. The equivalent condition of neighbouring municipalities does not necessarily mean the breakdown of the pharmacy network in smaller towns. Let me get this straight. When we adopt legislation in the field of pharmaceuticals, it should always be borne in mind that pharmacies are not intended to create profits but contribute to public health and pursue public interest. The operation of a pharmacy must therefore be accessible to all residents under the same conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Initially, sincere thanks to all those who have presented their views and who have expressed their position in a way that is realistically critical of the situation, both good and bad, in the pharmacies themselves. I must admit that this bill does not go into areas that can be even more regulated in a way that is not conducive, in this case, to the founders of pharmacies at the primary level, and that is to the mayors. Because we wanted or our desire as a proponent is to basically try to make a real change that really goes only and only for the benefit of the users of pharmacies. The fact is, as I showed in the presentation, that we cannot say that the operation of pharmacies is not satisfactory. Unfortunately, we face this so-called economic category or price, which everyone who goes into the pharmacy simply has to pay for this type of service. And here's the key to the problem that we're somehow touching with this amendment. So once again, I really thank you for this constructive presentation. Here I must point out that the coalition agreement for this coalition also states in one provision that the municipalities must somehow have greater autonomy. And from my point of view, this is also one of the forms which is an intervention in the pharmacy law itself, which has 132 articles, and as I mentioned in the beginning, the difficulty is just two articles. One is that, which somehow binds directly to the municipalities, is the mayors and city councils, who are supposed to be very self-sufficient in these decisions, although this is somehow conditional and some have also presented in the debate that they are not really entirely independent, because some of the necessary prior consent is nevertheless necessary by the Ministry of Health and the Pharmacy Chamber. But one key thing is that the mayors are independent. It is generally known that mayors of municipalities are the best managers of public funds at the local level, they are also the best knowledgeers of all the situations and needs of the local population, and in fact this so-called pharmacy services in the form of pharmacies or branch pharmacies. And what is important about this matter is that it is right that mayors in setting up at least in the current times that need to have a greater form of cooperation between them, among all 212 municipalities or whatever it is already determined that they are not bound by the establishment of these pharmacies solely to neighbouring congregations. So I think that, in principle, it should not be a problem at all, because some cooperation, and even now that we are talking about the service of the country, through so-called cooperation in the field of administrative units, digitisation and the like, is one of the key concerns, if I may say so, for the older population. And here we are interfering with this so-called Articles 5 and 27 of the existing law, and here, in principle, I have also not seen from the presentations that there would be any particular problem. The other thing is, which was, and I thank individuals who were very substantive and deeply representing the position of these so-called vertical chains. We simply need to be aware that the fact that pharmacies also operate with profits is a fact. And how important it is about these gains, how they are made. And the truth of the matter is that profits are most created through so-called supply chains of sales items, which we just purchase or obtain in pharmacies themselves. Therefore, I am joining all those who have debated and stood firm in their presentations, why should it be allowed that, after so many, if I may say so for decades, these profits go hand in hand, if I may say so directly, to the current suppliers, who have even been identified by name, and for whom we must admit that citizens of these created profits have absolutely nothing. And it is not realistic to expect that they would also be very inclined to follow this course at individual locations in the municipalities. And that is why it is one that somehow travels or, if I may say otherwise, calls on the congregations to enable them to establish their own suppliers through the so-called public pharmacy. It is therefore undeniable that, to a large extent, the so-called profits generated by pharmacies go solely to the benefit of the countrymen. Either way, whether this is then known for the price of individual products sold by pharmacies or whether the profit redistributed within the municipal budget by the approval of municipal councils is redistributed into the so-called needs of the countries. And again, as I mentioned in the introduction, the mayors are the ones who know most about the needs of their locals. If I touch the proposal a little bit more. From so far-known public responses, it must be acknowledged that part of the healthcare profession, and I will also be able to say part of the policy and the interest chamber, simply do not want to change, although these minor changes do not interfere with health and professional competence under the Medical Act itself. As the main reasons for the change mentioned above, I will stress once again, you are going solely for the benefit of the users of the pharmacy as well as the citizens or the locals themselves. What I presented in the introduction is the price of two sales items, virtually only confirms this so-called moment, that not only is kindness and counseling enough, which is at a good level, but it is also an important economic aspect, and this is the price of those medicines or treatment aids, which the older population in particular practically takes from the pharmacy with a bag. I must point out that the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, where it resides, if I say gravely, almost a quarter of Slovenian citizens, simply wants the proposed changes, which somehow includes a denser and more accessible network of pharmacies. I must admit that at this point I would not like to engage in any kind of dialogue with those who have any concerns about this, but I will only mention one case exceptionally, which I know a little bit. See, the speech was to mention only for the younger population of people, that in Ljubljana the Ljubljana Pharmacy has for the needs of students along with the health home of a special dispenser on Ashkercheva Street, which includes a functioning pharmacy. Generally known information is a talk about about about 40,000, if I may say so, the interests or users of this pharmacy exclusively student content. If we look at the existing law, as has already been said, there are 6,000 borders on which a particular pharmacy should be able to open in one way or another. If we look at such an example, we see that certain things are moving away from this older content of this law, which simply does not follow today's needs for such services. And I'm going to touch something again — whether we're talking about accessibility and whether these services, if I don't say so again, are relatively fast and accessible to everyone under the same conditions. I can say below that the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which is mainly a small municipality in the middle, has also given a letter that it does not agree with this. But frankly, after talking to the president of this community, who said yes, you have a letter, but some of the mayors were over-voted, completely legal and legitimate. I mean, a lot of these people realize that these are things that are most likely necessary and are desirable to intervene in some way that will certainly ensure that if the profits from this title are already generated, they are literally at the local level. There are still certain safeguards in this proposal, but the changes are relatively modest with these eleven articles. An objective assessment is that the proposed amendment opposes, as is usual in the Republic of Slovenia, the chamber. And, I'm going to say directly, the chambers are generally protecting their so-called cecho interest. The fact is that part of the medical profession and politics, and in such cases, they are obviously more at the forefront of preservation, such as certain privileges, but perhaps there are other benefits to be discussed. However, I firmly believe that when we receive such messages, which are not inclined to make virtually any changes, it only confirms that things should be preserved as they are and that we will in one way or another resolve everything in a systematic way. Unfortunately, many or too many times in the National Assembly are also used in politics as to how everything will be resolved systematically. However, it happens that there is a change of political power, and the systemic solution is suddenly stopped and the most satisfied are those who in one way or another take advantage of the so-called opportunity to change, which they do not want. I am in the position that even in pharmacy activities they are aware of the following. That for health care and pain relief aids that are usually obtained in pharmacies in addition to generics, the users of pharmacies generally do not care what it costs, I speak for users, me or any other citizen, or even an older person. Because the main thing about going to the pharmacy is getting something to make you feel better. And the fact is, it's also very much aware of the pharmacy's character. And the key reason for the proposed minor change is that it is easy to establish some way that medicines and various pain relievers are simply available at a lower or lowest price. From the opening presentation, I think it was very plastic, but I must admit that I will most likely visit a variety of pharmacies in Slovenia and purchase the same article with interest and I am interested in how pharmacies offer the same products at any price or are being followed. And if I'm very grave for an evaluation so far, I really want to know what the competence of the Pharmacy Chamber is, not to talk about various inspections that should also control this matter. Unfortunately, this is happening, and there's nothing new. That is why I am a great advocate and I am also prepared for this proposal that somehow this so-called vertical link can simply ensure greater competition between suppliers, which must certainly also be included with the possibility of their own suppliers of the institution. And here's where I want to point out something. Even if this is allowed in the letter of the law, this does not automatically mean that it can also be implemented. This is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the municipalities, in this case mayors, municipal councils, whether they decide to establish it within their pharmacy establishment. And what is even more important is whether or not there will come or come in such areas the great desire of many mayors in the Republic of Slovenia for strong integration. More than such integration, a relatively low price is also generated from competition. And I think it's our duty, too, if that's possible. So far, Mr President, and thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, President. Nice to meet you again, respectable fellows, fellows! Now, in all the presentations of the views, a number of things have been said, I will not repeat them, not the stuff about pharmacy networks or the reasons for changing this law. Since I don't have enough time to focus on one and the only thing that's been bugging me for a long time, which I've been talking about in public for quite some time now, it's about selling the Farmadent. Now for those of you who do not know, Farmadent, d.o.o., is one of the leading Slovenian companies that cares for the complete and comprehensive care of health care. Its founder was Maribor's pharmacy, but after all the changes that happened with the legislation, the Municipality of Maribor currently owns 83.35%. Why am I explaining this? Because the company's business includes providing healthcare with innovative and quality materials, including the largest proportion of medicines, they are followed by medical devices, cosmetics, food supplements, chemicals, veterinary medicinal products and various services for buyers and suppliers. Their main task is to provide quality care for public and private pharmacies, hospitals, velodrogeria and veterinary establishments. At this point, the Farmadent circus has 70 employees and annually generates about 100 million euros in traffic and a strong over or a circus million euros in profits. And that's actually why it seems important to me to talk here about what the mayor of Maribor is doing right now, which is, by the way, SMC's mayor, because SMC has also proposed him for this function. And what's he doing? He decided to privatize this company, sell it at home. Who or what? We don't know yet. However, we know with this that the city budget loses that profit that otherwise comes from this title every year to the budget of the Municipality of Maribor. Earlier, what happened in Ljubljana, of course, also from this money, had already been said by my colleague Jani. That's why I think it's completely, but it's totally unacceptable for this company to sell itself. It is also interesting that, at this point in time, when I was reviewing how many transactions, even now during the covida period, this company acquired from the acquisition of life-saving protective equipment, I found that none. And then this answer was very interesting, even though who all purchased protective equipment at the time of the cobbler, that we didn't even talk about all those "real" suppliers that could do it. The company, however, has a knowledge of how it has knowledge, which at its final stage also has these connections, which can also meet all the required conditions for the purchase of medical equipment, but it has not done so, but this is again another question, a question for those who are running this company at the moment. Let me repeat that I strongly oppose the sale of the Farmadent, which is planned by the mayor of Maribor. This has been said several times in the Maribor City Council by colleagues from my list, and the mayor has also been asked not to do so. Unfortunately, the mayor doesn't hear these calls right now. In view of the public interest of the Municipality of Maribor, it should be for the money to remain in the municipal treasury, without selling to a multinational who is still in foreign ownership. And since, as it is said, the mayor does not want to hear this, I have already addressed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in December to prevent the possibility of alienating this municipal ownership share of the company, because there will be irreparable damage with this municipality, and I have also proposed that the company should be given the role of a key state partner in the procurement of covid-19 vaccines, which would certainly be for the public good and for the benefit of all citizens. When I received the reply from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I did not know exactly what to do, whether to cry or to be bent. But yes, that's just the way this government feels about very important issues at the time of the epidemic. However, I think it is important to note that it would also be very useful for the mayor of Maribor to consider whether a chicken carrying golden eggs would be sold. And I am sure that this is bad, especially bad for all citizens of the Municipality of Maribor, because of this, of course, we lose a quality inflow into the budget, which, of course, we can then rebuild a school or build a health station. Especially because the mayor seems to be here to satisfy some partial interests, I strongly oppose that, as it were. And I'm gonna stop here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u184	President, I will allow my well-respected colleague to answer, because the proposal for amendments to this law is somehow also directly linked to the specific matter. See, it must be acknowledged that Farmadent can in fact be saved and maintained by the Municipality of Maribor, but this decision is currently under the exclusive jurisdiction of the mayor as well as of the municipal council. It is said that the mayor may propose, but it is the municipal council who will either confirm or reject his proposal or even propose a matter. Why can I say with certainty from this point of view that the company you mentioned can remain and actually work for the benefit of the people of Maribor or the Municipality of Maribor? It is precisely by removing the absolute prohibition of vertical connection, which is possible with this amendment to Article 26, where this absolute prohibition of vertical connection is effectively lifted. Here I will point out once again, although it was by someone who also stated in his presentation, the Constitutional Court has had a constitutional judgment concerning this so-called absolute prohibition, but it has found that such a prohibition is not inconsistent with the Constitution itself, which means that the legislator can regulate it in a slightly different way, but in accordance with European law. And this amendment is now in the proposed article 26 of the Pharmacy Act, which is why I believe that today's proposal will go through a first reading, that it is very possible at the second stage or second reading and that it is also realistic to address this issue in a way that this company will remain the property of the Municipality of Maribor, but once again, I will stress, indeed everything in the hands of the municipal councilors, and let us hope that this will also happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague of the Wilderness Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you. At first, I did not say that I would absolutely support this bill. In the meantime, this vertical has already broken up in Maribor, but we will not be discussing this in public right now, we can discuss it in private, but I absolutely agree with you, the proposer, that it is in the hands of the Maribor City Council and the mayor, so once again from this city I call on the mayor not to do so. At the same time, I also call on SMC's city councillors not to support this, which, by the way, is now supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to say thank you to my colleague Lydia Mirnikov for her discussion because she practically said: Caesar is naked! However, I would like to say this, Celje Pharmacy, I come from Celje, Celje Pharmacy with 12 municipalities co-founder of Celje Pharmacies and in Savina region with three privates cover the needs of medicines. None of these 12 municipalities own themselves and use the profits of the Celje pharmacy to replace asbestos roofs in their municipality in kindergartens, schools, health homes and so on. And what colleague Lidija Mirnik said earlier, look, LL Grossist in Ljubljana or Farmadent in Maribor, a wider area than he will cover with pharmacies, will be worth more. And in the case of a municipality in Ljubljana or Maribor where money is needed urgently, or they find that their wholesaler is very valuable, this matter will be sold. This is how it works, look, as in Ljubljana, interestingly, these commercial interests perform, we talked about Soča functional land, we talked about Rog, what is happening to him, this morning we talked about Križanka, where the Central School has a design and photography space. Look, there's obviously one thing to say, and the other is the result. And it is an obvious lobbyist law, which contains a series of untruths and even wrong conclusions, at least that's how Members and Members are convinced in here and in the public. The proposer says that we are a society that is ageing, which is true, and that more and more day migrants are in Ljubljana in particular, and that this means that more pharmacies are needed and that it is therefore necessary to redefine the area of gravity for the establishment of pharmacies. And the applicants would redefine the gravitational areas by having, for example, the Ljubljana Pharmacy interest in doing business elsewhere in Slovenia, which they currently cannot, and this would in fact mean one monopolisation, centralisation and destruction of smaller pharmacies and concessionaires in the field of pharmacy. Above all, we'd get more pharmacies. Look, and their argument is that there is more need and that's why we need more pharmacies. But that's not true. Applicants, the argument that we have an average number of pharmacies in relation to the European Union, when reading materials, is not correct. It does, but in this case, this sub-average means a sign of development. I will continue to substantiate, because the data show that at least the pharmacy is in the most developed countries, i.e. the economically and socially most developed, for example in Scandinavia. For example, the biggest pharmacy is in Greece and Bulgaria, and the reason is a poor, nonexistent health system in the periphery, where health care is poor and people are forced to heal themselves. As a result, purchases of large quantities of medicines without a prescription and dietary supplements are a result. But the pharmacy doesn't mean health anymore. And these countries are also, I mentioned Greece and Bulgaria, and I could list them, they are worse than the developed ones by health indicators, even than Slovenia. Slovenia is now on a similar path as public health is rapidly being destroyed and privatised. The treatment is becoming increasingly established as a market service, and now it wants to be in the same position as the pharmacy activity in Slovenia. In addition, the applicant falsely claims that this is an explanation for Article 6 of the novel that the provision of pharmacy services during the epidemic was disrupted. That's just not true. And if the motioner has any evidence, please show them. See, we have received the position of the Faculty of Pharmacy in Ljubljana on professional issues and in March of this year, where they specifically point out that access to medicines and medical devices is already in the current system at an enviously high level, there is no reason to change the existing network. Daily migrants have a personal physician where they live, so it is only logical and also reasonable to have an affordable pharmacy, a pharmacy network, where they live. And the proposed concentration of the pharmacy in cities and the poverty of the pharmacy network in smaller places is not good. In fact, we are moving away from providing a pharmacy activity throughout the country under the same conditions. And the proposed concentration of pharmacies in cities is not intended to provide better care for medicines, but further, as I said before, commercialisation of pharmacy activities for other products purchased in pharmacies. By doing so, the pharmacy activity is moving away from its primary mission, which is to ensure effective treatment with medicines and medical devices. And they're negative until marriage in the Pharmacy Chamber. And when Mr Verbic told me earlier that the chambers are usually Czech, look, I believe, but they have some expertise behind them and a Chamber of Commerce, which is also against this law, for example, she and your SMC party fought together to keep the stores open on Sundays. What does the Pharmacy Chamber say? “Experience shows that the deregulation of pharmacy activities reduces access to medicines and pharmacy services”. And this proposal leads to deregulation. I would like to say that in 2003, a study by the Geographic Institute showed that in Slovenia we have very good coverage with pharmacies and that practically 83 residents live less than 6 km away from pharmacies. And migration is neither and cannot be taken into account, they say in the Pharmacy Chamber, as an element of the criteria for the pharmacy network. First of all, there are no real data on migration, and secondly this would mean that the number of people the pharmacy is intended to provide would double. As a result, pharmacy care would be reduced elsewhere, which would mean the closure of pharmacies on the outskirts, similar to the closure of the post office, banking services and so on in Koroška, Prekmurje, Zgornja Savinjska and elsewhere in Slovenia. I mean, this is also confirmed by experience in the pharmaceutical field abroad, either Hungary, Poland, Latvia, Estonia. It is also important that pharmacies are connected at their local level. At shorter distances, connections are faster, business is cheaper and personnel are much easier to use. And just during the covida epidemic, human resources were provided when many pharmacists, due to quarantine or illness, were unable to go to work, and in these, at least in mine, in the Celiac pharmacies, they ensured the availability of personnel. For this reason, health homes are also regionally organised. In the summer of 2017, Dr. Velimir Bole of the Institute of Economic Research published a study on the efficiency and regulation of the pharmacy system in Slovenia. And what did he find out? That the pharmacy system in Slovenia is more effective than the median European countries. Secondly, in the European Union, more regulated pharmacy systems are more efficient in business. Next, Slovenia will exit following the regulation of the pharmacy business, but one of the countries that has this issue better regulated, better regulated and that the cost-effectiveness of the pharmacy system in Slovenia is higher than the median European pharmacy systems. In fact, empirical data suggest that the intensity of deregulation does not have any effect on drug expenditure - it is likely that the opposite will happen - and that the vertical link allows in particular the launch of exclusively profitable medicinal products. See, all the above-mentioned professional and research-based arguments presented by the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Ljubljana, the Pharmacy Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce, including the opinion of the pharmacists' privates are such that they oppose the bill proposed by SMC. They are also against this proposal in the Pharmaceuticals Union because they say that vertical control leads to cherry picking, that is to say, to one launch of exclusively profitable medicines, on which there is great demand, to make more money and to get more money for changing asbestos roofs in their own municipality or to make it easier once the high price is reached, this municipal vegrosist is sold. Let me get this straight. The law is lobbyist to extremes. It reminds me of the tobacco law. It is simply not intended to provide additional profits to one county lobby. If such a law is adopted, there will be no money for pharmaceutical workers, because the area will be poor and the sale of medicines without a prescription will in particular increase. If adopted, pharmacies on the periphery will be destroyed or closed because they will no longer be profitable. This will also make the supply of medicines worse and, of course, jobs will be lost. I would like to say this: the proposal for a law is an important deviation in the direction of selling medicines and profitable motives to the public health interests. This objective is subordinated to, and is thus practically terminated by, an independent pharmaceutical profession. I would like to say this for the end, a very ineffective fight against the covida epidemic in the past similar to us is concrete, but unfortunately also bloodyly warned that without taking into account the professional opinion the battle is lost in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Let me begin by saying that, in essence, I will support the law or amendment of the Pharmacy Act introduced by our fellow Member, Mr Verbic, especially because we want to extend the network of pharmacies to as many municipalities as possible and thus bring the pharmacy services closer to the citizens as possible. Secondly, because we want to actually lower prices, because everywhere, greater competition also means lower prices in all areas. As the applicant has said, the amendments to the eleven articles of 128 covered by this pharmacy law and the Act on Pharmacy activities are, in particular, two objectives. Thus, giving municipalities greater autonomy, i.e. greater autonomy, because they also have exclusive competence in their acts to provide a network of pharmaceutical activities for primary activities. Therefore, this must also be ensured to their citizens. But according to the current arrangement, they depend on the establishment of pharmacies, which means that they are bound to a neighboring congregation. In the article itself, the word next door is deleted by leaving a wider possibility, having full freedom to decide with which to connect and then to set up a pharmacy or pharmacy together. Secondly, the release of the market in the area of the purchase of goods offered by pharmacies to the citizen, thus allowing public pharmacies to establish their own suppliers themselves or with others. Here today, very much has been said on several sides, including by different parties. This certainly increases competition on the Slovenian market with regard to the supply of medicines, various pain-relieving supplements and other products available in pharmacies and thus affects price reductions. I would like to say that, at the time of the introduction of the law, the introduction of the law itself has brought some positive changes. First of all, Members of the SMC introduced the law with the first-signed Mr Verbic in February, and I think it was February 16th. At the end of February, I received a letter from the mayor of one of the municipalities of Lower Podravje to support our marriage, for the congregation has been waiting seven years for agreement to establish a branch pharmacy in its congregation. When we actually warned the Ministry of Health during coalition coordination about these problems, something had already moved, as the mayor sent me the following message on 17 March. “I tell you that after seven years, since we have prepared room for the pharmacy, and after the last year of very intensive work we have been able to obtain the consent of the Ministry of Health”, on March 12 they received it, “to establish a branch pharmacy concessionaire. [[…]] However, I certainly hope that changes to the Pharmacy Act will take place, especially in the part of the competence of municipalities for faster and easier opening of new pharmacies or branches by municipalities in Slovenia.« Thus, the opinions of the congregations are different. But we are all together, but I always look even more for our area, because some feared that the law could also have a negative impact on smaller pharmacies, but we all got one letter, namely from the Municipal Municipality of Murska Sobota, what problems they have there. In 1996, 16 municipalities established Pomurje pharmacies, after which 25 of these municipalities are now divided, for example, 43% of the services are realized in the Murskohodo municipality, with five shops, and in fact only one founder in this world. And then the mayor asks us to change things to adopt legislation that, among other things, will also write that will commit public health institutions to strict compliance with existing legislation mainly in the field of public procurement and other matters, which surprises me a little, because if it is legal, it could be implemented, but obviously cannot be taken into account by the municipality, but also partially solves the 7th Article of these amendments, as the second paragraph here says: “The municipalities establishing a joint public pharmacy institution must adopt an agreement on mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities in relation to this institution before it is established.” If the marriage goes forward, so through the second reading, we have a chance to complement this, so it will also be for those public institutions that already exist, to somehow get rid of these problems, which obviously do occur. As I say, the introduction of the law itself has led to quite a few positive changes, but I believe that the law through the next stages of the legislative process can be further improved by all groups of Members and also by the competent ministry if there is indeed something that is at stake. As I say, I will support the changes in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u192	Let me first say that I am extremely nervous every time in this national assembly, when I feel that half the Members do not understand exactly what we are talking about, and I allow myself to be wrong. And I admit that this subject is very complicated. Vertical connections, gravity area, I don't know what. So I'm going to tell you what's important to me, and I'm going to tell you if someone has the same values, or if they know that they have different values, they can imagine if they think the same way I do this time. For me, the key question is where the money from the pharmacy goes, which we know is big and good money. Human health is such an important value that people are willing to pay a lot and the country pays a lot for medicines. For me, the key question is whether the money from the pharmacy goes back to the congregation for schools, kindergartens, roads, ditches and so on or goes into private pockets. And the fact that Levi is rooting here for the privates is a total surprise to me. I don't know if you understand in Levica that under the current legislation, if we don't adopt this law, Maribor and Ljubljana, who are the only traders, will have to sell it. And then foreigners, two foreign companies, will dictate to all our pharmacies, public and private, the price of medicine. Is that what we want? That foreign pharmacies will dictate the price of medicines to public pharmacies? Because, after the current legislation, MOL and the Municipality of Maribor will have to sell these two by the end of the year for a bad price and then we have lost it forever. Now some of the profits that come in here go back to the congregations. And not only with Maribor and Ljubljana, even if it has the profits of Pharmacy Celje, even if the Pharmacy of Murska Sobota has it and so on. This is the first key thing for me to do is to get the money back to the congregations. Another key thing is the price for those who buy drugs and other things that are sold in pharmacies. In Pharmacy Ljubljana and Pharmacy Maribor, which have their own wholesalers, the price for us consumers is lower. That's what the fellow proposalr said earlier on the case. And that's how it always is. And when I go to Pharmacy Ljubljana to buy something, it's true, sometimes the pharmacist asks me, I bought something for immunity, I said that and give it to me, she said, I'll give it to you or I'll give it to you from our wholesaler, who is 5 euros cheaper. I don't think that's misleading. My choice remains. It is crucial to me that money goes back to public funds, not to private pharmacies and private wholesalers who will not spend it on our congregations, our schools, our kindergartens. NSI says public pharmacies should be established only where the concessionaire is not paid. Yes, please! So, where it's worth having a private pharmacy, where it's private, where it's not worth it, let it be a public pharmacy. No, by now the congregation must give its consent for the new concession and for the new pharmacy. A congregation that has its own pharmacy or a good private person covering the needs of this congregation will not give consent to a new pharmacy. A municipality that does not have a pharmacy because no one wants to go there business because it does not pay off, but will gladly give consent to Pharmacy Ljubljana or Pharmacy Maribor to at least have a pharmacy. And the fact that they can't be more accessible to the pharmacy and all that nonsense, right?Oh, my God! And that people should buy drugs where they're at home and not in the big centers?Oh, my God! Who will stop someone who goes to work in Ljubljana from buying a cure on the way home in one pharmacy instead of in their village? Nobody. And that can't be regulated. I regret that the proposaler put a bunch of things in here and added to the confusion of Members with these areas of gravity, and I don't know what it is and that the neighbouring congregation is no longer just a border, because here is one key question. Is public health and public pharmacies so important that public institutions, in this case public pharmacies, can be granted an acceptable advantage over individuals? We can see that this is arranged differently around the world. One of them is absolutely forbidden, one is allowed, the Netherlands is completely free. So don't tell me that the European Union is setting it right. We'll decide. We want to get the money back to the congregation, or we want the privates to get it, they get rich, I don't mind, but our congregations are always underpaid. This is their golden egg, as was said today. Let us kill these golden chickens of our congregations that do good things for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Replica, my friend Brickler.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u194	I would like to say this that the purpose of the pharmacy network and the activities of pharmacies is certainly not in the first place to create profits, but to provide medicines and medical supplies and that they are accessible to people in a country where older people do not have transport facilities in remote areas, where there are still pharmacies. And look, profit is one that is created in the pharmacy itself with its activity, significantly greater profit if it is profit, but it will be possible to create when the wholesaler sells one wide network of pharmacy units from the back after one third of Slovenia. And this will probably follow, as Mrs Mirnik said on the Maribor case earlier, also to this law. And we need to ask ourselves what we're talking about here and what's going to happen back here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. That was a replica. And now there's a few reported missing. The next one has the word mag. Dean the Jew, then let me just say it, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the honourable proposer of this law! By coming with the proposal of this law, I must say that you have done useful things in Slovenia because the debate that is necessary has opened. And first of all, we have a quality pharmacy system, accessibility is present and I have to say myself as a user, of course I wish I were as few users as possible, I am satisfied with the quality of the services of Slovenian pharmacies. This is the right starting point. Second base. You have presented an analysis or data that - I have then also calculated something - on average in Europe per hundred thousand people 32 pharmacies, in Slovenia 16, which is exactly as obvious as in Austria, is significantly lower than in Germany and is a few countries, but with fewer pharmacies a lot of countries from more countries. Of course, the reasons why this is so, whether it is related to the health situation in a particular country or to anything else or even to technical restrictions, you have not worked out and this could be worked out well. Like the next one. I'm also extremely afraid of oligopolies or monopolies. The fact is that all the information that is at least available to me shows that in the field of grossites, Slovenian pharmacies have come into an impossible position. In fact, they are becoming dependent on only two grossies and without the possibility of shopping abroad. But in case they're talking in the background, it's not just a duopol, it's a monopoly. This is something that is the most terrible that can happen to us as well as to potential patients or to the Slovenian health system or to society as such. So any reflection on how to take a step forward in order to prevent it will probably need to be done in several ways not only by means of the way you propose to allow pharmacies to be purchased by their subsidiaries if medicines are cheaper. It will probably be necessary to include other legislation, because otherwise we will be prisoners and will suffer as such or as our health treasury. You also rightly point out that there are relatively many cases in Slovenia where what should have been done under the Pharmacy Act has not been concluded, namely, agreements on mutual rights, obligations and responsibility. This in practice means, which is probably what many authorities have already pointed out, that we already have a path position because the legislation has so far not made it clear that this needs to be regulated. By the way, this pattern of law does not yet impose, so if I understand the proposaler very well that you will do so below, it will be necessary to regulate. Today, acting as if we have public institutions without owners, is not really going to work. Whether he owns a country, then the state has the right of establishment and ownership of that institution, if the institution is a municipality, then the municipality, if there are several municipalities, has more municipalities and has legitimate expectations and rights. The fact that this 7th article has not been realized so far, because in Prekmurje, Pomurje creates a mystery. At this point, I do not understand how it is possible for congregations with no pharmacy to participate in the management of a branch office. However, municipalities that even have a majority share in the pharmacy, at least after transport or essentially by number of units in the municipality, are in the same position as municipalities that do not even have pharmacies. This is a good way after managing both public institutions and anything else is really going on, and if this law is going to solve it, then it is a good way. I myself listened to basically all the fears on the pharmaceutical side — I read these records that we received. However, I must also say that I do not understand the system, that if the congregation wants to establish another pharmacy within itself, the criteria are now strict, you are suggesting that they are slightly milder, because migration and tourists are not taken into account, but that it also requires the consent of the character. I really don't understand how that could have happened. And every thing, every association, whether it's a union or it's a union and so on, everyone has their own powers, everyone has their own tasks to handle, but basically those who have already given restrictions to potential new locations, and I don't really understand how this could have happened in the current legislation. While we will also discuss this law in the parliamentary group, we are likely to ask many more questions about the opinion, but I think it is right to allow this law to continue its course with the necessary changes. Thank you for your attention, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce you to a respectable colleague. I'll start there when my colleague says that half the Members don't understand what marriage does. I'm saddened by the fact that she just said it. I must say that I have read all these views prepared by the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Ljubljana, the Slovenian Pharmaceutical Society, the Coordination of Medical Organisations, which includes the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Slovenian Medical Society, the Slovenian Association of Private Physicians, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices and the Community of Municipalities. The applicant, however, pointed out that he had basically spoken to the President of the Community of the Communities that they had been re-elected when they were considering this pharmacy act. Yes, of course, because in the end all municipalities in Slovenia are not large and urban municipalities. This law is for the benefit of the city’s congregations. Because we have 212 congregations, they have been overrun. And here I see reservations. And as I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, some things are good, some things are bad, so it makes sense for us to talk about these things, because the public health service, the pharmacy, has to serve all citizens and citizens wherever we are. And at the time of the co-vide, it showed what a pharmacy you have in your home environment means. And here I see great difficulties in establishing new pharmacies in urban centres, while there will be poverty in rural pharmacies. And yes, because I come from the countryside, I know what's going on. In smaller pharmacies, simple medicines will no longer be available and will be difficult to obtain. And where are we going? We're going to the urban centers to get medicine. And at the time of the coworker, when we had such finely closed congregations, yes, because it was an excuse for you to go to the neighboring congregation because you had simply gone to get the medicine with a prescription, but yes, some had to drive 30 kilometers and cross three congregations to the Maribor City Hall. This means what we have to give citizens and citizens. That they will have an accessible and quality pharmacy activity. Does this law bring this? Given all the records we just got, I don't think so. Why am I saying that? Because we already know deregulation. We know how long it's been going on with everything else. In fact, it began years ago with the closure of rural post offices, we are now witnessing the closure of banks and we will close everything in the countryside and we will have it all in the urban centres. Is that what we want to do at the pharmacy? I personally don't and I don't have the right to work this way or to press a button like that. However, if the arguments convince me otherwise, we can also talk about this. But, yes, the effects of what we're talking about will not show up today, tomorrow, in a year, in two years. The effects of the adoption of the law are likely to be 5-10 years from now. By all likelihood, there will be no more people here in the National Assembly, but those who have so much, I will say, hearts and responsibilities, believe me, if I support such a law, that I will have a bad conscience when the pharmacy closes in a non-urban area, I will have a bad conscience, I admit. I have a bad conscience for a lot of people in my last term. I admit it, I got it. But then things were a little different, and today I have to say again that I'm a little more mature, I think, I'm extremely careful on certain things. If the marriage comes into the future, we'll just try to make any changes. For I myself have said that certain things are good, which I also stand for, and I myself agree that the problem is that the Farmadent is essentially to be sold. That's what I'm having trouble with. But this is something that needs to be considered and resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Three other panellists have been reported: Gregor Perič, mag. Dušan Verbich and Joseph Lenart. The first one has the word Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u200	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues, say hello to everyone! Today's debate is quite interesting to my mind, and there were also many surprising plants and also surprises, at least for me, so he thought we were looking at the economy in different ways, one for socialists, the other for liberals, but then I see that a lot has changed, at least with regard to the Medical Act. Previously, we heard an eyewitness flying on this bill, that it was lobbying, and that it was actually some mayor's lobby in the back. I have to say that I was extremely disturbed by this because I think that colleagues from various political parties have explained what this, if I say so, mayoral lobby means. What happened to the funds obtained from the operations of pharmacies in connection with the wholesalers is this vertical link, which some of you advocate in order to cut off and then disable what happened to those funds obtained on the congregation’s side, then build up. If the subject of this law is the so-called mayoral lobby and with the help of all these funds schools, kindergartens are being built up, some public infrastructure is being restored, I am glad to call it a lobbying law and even more loudly and with even more cordial support. Of course, this law does not just have this element, it has other elements. I agree that there are other elements to talk about and I will say at the beginning of my debate that it would be useful to let this law go forward in this first step and then see what else can be done and improved, corrected, complemented where we assess that this is necessary. It is certainly one of those laws that everyone will never agree with, so we are, as has been said many times, in Parliament. However, I will not agree with this on my own, even though I am a liberal, that in the case of both Ljubljana and Maribor, because of a legal provision that has not been considered for my terms, we must either sell these two local communities under a temporary compulsion, under some pressure for some small money and sell it to the one that these two companies actually represent competition to. Then what are we gonna do? We will set up a duopol, which we know from an economic theory, what this means – that prices will definitely go up because there will be no competition, but a third or fifth player will think hard if he wants to go to our market because he will not have any interest. What's that gonna mean? So we're going to have a duopol, prices are going to go up, our people who are going to need medication are going to pay much more than they pay today. And when we talk about smaller pharmacies, i.e. concessionaires, so these smaller pharmacies are usually privately owned, they're going to have an even greater difficulty in providing an adequate supply of medicines, which we know are very expensive today, not about those medicines that are for some wider consumption that we get without a prescription, but those that are for the recipe that are more complicated, the development of which cost a lot of resources, well, these medicines will simply be in these smaller pharmacies in concessionaires absolutely less. Which means people, if they want a cure, automatically know, I'm not going to look for it with the concessionaire, because it's likely that I'll find it there, much smaller, but they'll go back to those larger pharmacies in public property. Draw here some logical feats in such an easy way, I think it is wrong and that the situation is much more complicated than it seems. We are absolutely open to SMC to open, but not only pharmacies and manufacturing plants, the economy and trade, for us would be open, now in Levica you are obviously more likely to close, but not only pharmacies, but also shops, tomorrow we will see, the only cement plant in Slovenia would close, so I do not know where then we will get the things we need to operate our economy, construction also for important projects. Then we can easily import everything and buy abroad for some money that will be absolutely more expensive than if we had something of ours. I am surprised by this position of the Left, which in fact is that two Slovenian companies that are doing well are simply sold for some small money or privatised by some public owner to some foreign pharmaceutical multinationals. I was the least surprised by that today. I don't understand this, since when is the Left for Privatization. As it is said, I do not see any harm in the fact that these two wholesalers are publicly owned, because this is a useful and additional source for the two congregations, I would like more of them, because each additional source for the local community is extremely valuable. To cut it out here in such a very administrative way, it seems to me a very reckless and bad message for all citizens of the Municipality of Ljubljana as well as Maribor and probably for others. I propose that we give some thought to these strong or confused positions and allow this law some further consideration, so that this procedure continues to be further refined, deleted, and that it may also be allowed to set up pharmacies, not only in remote places where they are necessary and necessary, but when I have looked slightly over the Internet, I have not found any examples to open a pharmacy. So I think there's still a lot of potential here. But when I travel around the world, I see that these pharmacies are as large and smaller as they are and are also very well-established. I can say for the Slovenian Istria that we have in practice, and we have also now many times to go to pharmacies across the border to Italy, because they have a significantly different and broader range of medicines that are not on the recipe, but that people simply know that they are helping. I do not understand why Slovenians and Slovenians should go to Italy if they could have such a wide range of medicines or other medicines that are not necessarily medicines, including us. If this market is further improved, it does not seem to me to be a sign of some indevelopment, but rather to enable our people to do what they need to do to feel good or to mitigate those negative effects in some of their diseases or other inconveniences. I call once again for this law to be allowed to take another step forward in this legislative process. If there are any more things, in this process that we have at our disposal, we will complement them and then also allow some additional development to take place in this area. However, I do not understand, once again, all these efforts that these two wholesalers are then simply sold for small money to two large companies. Finally, at the expense of this we lose quite a few well-paid jobs, the two local communities lose one very important source, which is of an investment nature, usually always runs out here to the municipalities, but we would be unable to do so because of some misunderstanding, or I do not know how to define it. Once again, let us consider and allow many jobs in two locations in Slovenia to be maintained in the final stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u202	Once again, thank you so much for your word, President. I must admit that in this part of my debate, I am going to give a little explanation in particular for some of the dilemmas that have arisen with individual debaters. However, I would like to mention that when this amendment of the Act on Pharmaceuticals was being prepared, it was more and more widespread and originally contained good 36 articles. However, when the matter began to touch substantively in one way or another, it was found necessary because of the specificity or regulation of the current situation, which in some cases is not somehow what it should be, because it has to be acknowledged that in the Republic of Slovenia 212 municipalities simply cannot solve all matters equally, whether for the municipalities or in any rural area. And that's the reality. And the common denominator for this change is what was initially also presented and also in the debate some have highlighted only 2 issues, saying that the so-called Article 3 and 26 are called the jurisdiction of the mayors or municipalities, as well as how to make it possible, literally, as was said in the debate, that today there is a so-called dual for the so-called supply chain, to prevent this. As a result, this matter is somehow set up in a way that actually establishes an economic initiative, competition. And I believe that all those who have set up a public pharmacy institution, as in this case the mayors with the municipal councils, are very good, if not excellent owners with their public funds and are still interested in exposing this matter in a way that will not be a monopoly, but competition will be, because competition creates a lower price. And here there is simply no dilemma at all, and I must admit that I am firmly opposed to then talking about somehow being a monopoly. But you know, if some public pharmacy office is very ambitious and kind of very listening to the user and wants to provide an excellent offer with a very favourable price, yes, we should probably practically encourage such public pharmacies. And I believe there are some of these in the Republic of Slovenia. So much for that. I have to admit, who doesn't even want a change in health care in general. Here, well, today is a debate more narrower area, this is a pharmacy activity, and I am quite sure that the pharmaceutical profession along with the pharmacy chamber, which is a years-long-run situation with, say, some so-called positive networking and similar, which brings plus and minus, does not want to change. Definitely. Well, that's just their point of view, and that's what they wrote. I myself had a meeting with the President of the Pharmacy Chamber, and I also presented this point. I must admit that I have experienced a measure of understanding in that contact, but then, when it begins with so-called written documentation and information, there is a slightly different picture. President, will you allow me when the time is up, even as a motioner, because then I have some more time? You can, can't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u203	Yes, I'll allow it. But it's true that we only have one more debater and then you get the final word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u204	Okay, I'm gonna finish at this point and then I'm gonna keep going. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u205	Joseph Lenart has the word. Microphone, if you turn it off, mate Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. That's right, arguments for and against. I'll continue where I ended up. I hope that we will work together to further improve the proposal and that a primary objective will be achieved, which is the aim of the pharmacy – care for the people. So I want to add, let's be careful, experiences from abroad say that by deregulation in some places they have failed to provide neither lower prices nor better quality pharmacy services. So we have to ask ourselves whether such a deregulation would actually bring us, I will say, an effect, a better service accessibility, a lower price, as the goal is to achieve with these changes, as the proponent says, and I would actually say that it is difficult for me to predict these effects until we see these effects and then we can do the analysis and, of course, we can say, now that we have actually turned this in a better direction. Therefore, once again, let us be careful and, of course, include other stakeholders, because, not least, the ZLD-1 has changed with stakeholders, even then in the compromise of these stakeholders, and of course also take account of the directives of the European Union and the European Commission. If it happens now by chance that these changes somehow distance themselves from those rules that apply in the European Union, then that would not be again, I will say, too good. So just for the gradual increase in pharmacy, okay, we're in. But in fact, if only there were so many and so many tourists a day and so many migrants and, of course, there were more pharmacies, where there might be little population, there would be a slightly smaller problem and there would be no profits, and then they would be left behind and citizens would be away from these pharmacies, I don't know, seven kilometers or even more, it would not be right again. So it will still be necessary to rethought somehow, to refine the proposal to be in good public health and to care for love, as it is said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much again, President. If I continue somehow where my respectable colleague has just finished. We are pleased to open this proposal, which we have before us, to somehow draw up in these key elements, which are for a wide range of concerns, on a level and way that will truly follow the main objective, and this is for the user, the citizen, the patient or one that needs the so-called pharmacy service. But as I mentioned earlier, I'm kind of in debt for a few more words. The one who somehow suggested in the debate that this proposal is somehow an order of some Americanisation of pharmacies, what we have seen in the media, I must admit that I strongly resist it. It's a total abuse to call it a press address of some kind because it just doesn't hold. The fact is that the existing Act on Pharmacy in Article 5 makes it very clear: “The network of pharmacy activities under this Act is provided by the municipality at the primary level.” Not as a legislator, not as a legislative change, the municipality is the mayor and the municipal council. And if the mayor, along with the municipal council, decides to simply choose or trouble the locals together, these are the local communities that decide. And for this reason, I simply cannot agree with this philosophy, but this possible change will put an end to everything. Your Honor, the local community is working. And once again, 212 mayors, I have very good information about them, I think that the public, too, are masters, know and know the local situation, and especially the needs of their citizens. I agree, however, that the moment someone had it in mind that the economy is at the forefront, the mayor has plenty of opportunities to provide this kind of service, not to close if I can say it harshly. And it is in this context that the proposal for this amendment is to be deleted, that the pharmacy, as far as the municipalities are concerned, is related to the neighboring congregation. And that is why the responsible mayor will seek out the possibility of either preserving or bringing another into his congregation for the needs of his countrymen. And that's why I don't agree with Americanization. It is clear, however, that we must all be aware and also love our citizens, and we want them to take the best possible care of their own people. The next issue was a few speeches earlier concerning support or non-support for this bill. The city’s congregations are very supportive. Why? I think that's familiar. There was also some talk in the debate about these areas of gravity. Here I would like to say just one example, which I know a little bit more about, is very plastic, and it's also right to expose it. There's a central pharmacy in Ljubljana, I think you all know, on Prešern Square. And you know, when they've been monitoring, analyzing, say, the flow, the frequency of the customers, it's an indisputable finding. Only 20% of the users of the central pharmacy are from the local environment. So, people who live in that environment, according to the area that governs this so-called gravitational zone. 80% are others, i.e. from labour migrants to so-called tourists and all possible. And these are the realities that are sometimes not comparable to those of the so - called smaller congregations. What was then also exposed several times as regards the closure of the pharmacy. Personally, I think there is no interest in any closure, regardless of whether there are some more than 300 pharmacies. For we are in an ageing society, no matter where the end of Slovenia resides, great users of such services. And what was then also a speech, however, was given by the distinguished colleague who now went out, the case of the poor practice of the Murska Sobota, and the mayor, who has major problems, also responded, even though virtually through the Association of Municipal Communities, supported this change. It is precisely because of such a case as it does, Article 7 of this amendment eliminates the weaknesses of the existing regime. I also have to give a simple indication of what this big problem is, and I believe that it is not the only city or middle congregation that has this problem. With this change, we wanted to make sure that the public pharmacy institution at the primary level can set up a municipality or more municipalities together not only the neighbouring municipality, and this is the integration and preservation of locations across Slovenia. Next. The municipalities establishing a joint public pharmacy institution must adopt an agreement on mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities with regard to the institution before it is established. It is precisely that which is obvious that perhaps any non-payment between founders, contractors and the like does not work. These are safeguards that provide real great security for mayors or city councillors. And to the end. The founder municipality may conclude a contract with another municipality on the basis of which it carries out a pharmacy activity in its territory by a public pharmacy institution established by another municipality. This is exactly what I mentioned earlier, that the mayors simply will not allow the pharmacy or pharmacy branch to be virtually shut down in his place. I mean, certain things are just called for a minor correction to be made. I agree, however, that this law would most likely require greater corrections, but as proponents we have decided, let us start with a minimum issue. Above all, I must make it very clear here that I also very much agree with previous colleague Kociprovo, who has given a great deal of attention to the means or profits of operating pharmacies. I also mentioned in the introduction and several times, we simply must not allow this kind of revenue, profit or whatever we are saying that it goes either into private hands or into the hands of a foreign legal or natural person, it is practically necessary to remain the founders, in this case to the municipalities, and they together, in cooperation with the public pharmacy institution, determine the purpose for which these profits are made. Whatever they decide, it always benefits the country where it works. In this context, I am just finishing what has been said very clearly, there are many subordinates to the entry and exit price of individual medicinal products and medicinal products. Unfortunately, this is a reality, and we must also be very aware of it. Mr President, as I am towards the end, of course I must conclude. I can say that I sincerely thank all those who have proposed their views to the groups of Members, including the debaters, regardless of which direction they have discussed, the fact is that the debate is useful, it is necessary, it has opened up certain matters. Some affection has also been shown. However, I can only conclude by saying, honourable Members and Members, that I urge you to support this first reading and that certain things can certainly be improved in the second stage. Thank you for your attention, and that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing yes. I suggest we start applying to the list of discussers. If a representative of the proposer wants to apply further, then I suggest that you apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, the representative of the proposer shall receive the word as the last. Applications are under way. The first word is Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I have listened with great interest to today's debate, because it is about the topic in which it was, I think it is already said today that it is necessary to open it, that, as we have today arranged, we can say that it is good, but it is not entirely good and that it is not true that things should not be improved. They need to improve. And, of course, they must improve in the interest of citizens and citizens. And this is also somehow my guide when I think about the proposal of this particular law, saying whether it brings good for citizens, citizens or not. The fact is that it has been said before that we currently have about 300 pharmacies in Slovenia. 300 pharmacies, and if you take a quick look, you'll know there's a lot of them in the city center. So there's something wrong with our drugstore network. I'm talking about smaller areas here, too. You know, the fact that some people have miles to the pharmacy, I just don't think they should be allowed to do that at this time. It has been said that they go to and visit the pharmacy and consumption is higher in countries that are behind. I don't buy it, I think it's almost absurd, but it's also rude to all those who urgently need access to pharmacies and medicines, and some of them have to take them regularly, and because of this, they also somehow stay alive. So I don't agree with that. Access to pharmacies is very important and the fact is that we are an ageing society and that if a pharmacy is only available for some a few miles away, this is a problem. It's a problem. I've already spoken, like the problem of closing mail services, banks, even ATMs somewhere, so it's also bad that some people still don't have access to pharmacies, and they sometimes work very differently, so people just told me, like, for example, the work of a health home that's nearby. It is said that the time scale of work is quite different from that of the doctor and then must be repeatedly at the same location and so on. But let's leave it, that's the details. What I think is important is that, here too, the proposaler allows the possibility of further looking at the law further, to see what further improvements can be made, to address any concerns that may be made worse by this law. I don't think that was the intention of the proposalr, but, above all, that things are improving. I believe that we can bring this law together so far as it can improve the situation in the country in this area. But it's a tough nut, and we talk about these things a lot, and we rarely save them. Today is just the beginning of this, and I hope that in further procedures we will indeed come up with positive solutions that will help citizens and citizens. Because it's not right for someone who lives in the middle of town to have a pharmacy like that, I mean, 200, 300 meters, and someone who doesn't live in the city, and then a few miles away. We'll be able to look at these things with different eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I didn't hear everything because I was away for a while, but I'm going to comment. Let's just say my friend Periè had a problem with Levica before. I am interested in how you treat the opinion of the Faculty of Pharmacy or in the opinion of the Chamber of Medicine, these are professional institutions. I don't know why you're dealing with Levica. We have read very well what these two professional institutions say, and I think this is very relevant, as they say. I don't know why we'd be here. Are we Members here smarter than those who really are experts? And I'll refresh your memory of what they say. For example, the Faculty of Pharmacy says that access to medicines and medical devices is already in the current system at an enviously high level. Pharmacies are accessible and properly established, there is no reason to change the existing network. Any disturbances related to coronary disease are related to the supply chain of medicinal products and not to the organisation of a pharmacy network in our country. Daily migrants have a personal physician where they live, so it is only logical and reasonable that they are also provided with a network of pharmaceutical activities. Such an argument as the applicants have would mean that, for example, it is necessary to concentrate basic health activities. The proposal concentrates pharmacies in cities and the poorer network of pharmacies in rural areas. By doing so, we are moving away from providing a pharmacy activity under the same conditions. What colleague Bah Žibert was talking about earlier, I agree, it is not right that there are unequal conditions, but it is necessary to watch very carefully why it is going here. I personally remember very well in the city world when I was city councilwoman MOL, I mean, sorry, Lekarna Ljubljana has an expansionist aspirations from something and in the end Slovenia will really turn into a big Pharmacy Ljubljana and perhaps even Pharmacy Maribor. Is that it? As far as I can remember, the SDS didn't defend this expansion, at least not on the city level, so now I'm surprised if you're going to support it all of a sudden because you need to take a look. It's a lobbyist, in fact a lobbyist law. This is where certain mayors have been pretty mean about things. Look, Lekarna Ljubljana is, even so, shameless that she dared to take over a hospice in Ljubljana, which was previously held by a non-governmental organization. They even go so far in their unhygienicity, literally, and in their expansion and in their literal greed with their business. In fact, they are gravitated to some monopolisation, to centralisation and, as a result, could mean the destruction of smaller pharmacies and concessionaires in the field of pharmacy. Above all, yes, the proposaler now says that we have an average number of pharmacies in relation to EU countries. Let's see which countries have something. The fact that you have a network like ours can be, for example, a sign of development, does not necessarily mean that it is a sign of underdevelopment. Like Scandinavia, which is both an economically and socially highly developed country, is comparable at this level. However, they have many more pharmacies in Greece, Bulgaria, and so on. Are they more developed than we are? No, they're not. The reason is that they have a poor or nonexistent health system on the periphery in these countries. More pharmacies don't necessarily mean more health, but they can mean more consumption of all these complementary, these non-receptive commercial things that pharmacies like business do and want to sell as many of these food supplements as possible and I don't know what. That must be a good business. I'd say, first of all, look at what the Pharmacy and the Faculty of Pharmacy say. I think they're relevant. We keep saying that we need to listen to the expert, and yes, we need to listen to the expert. And look, I really wouldn't want us to just pick up something at home here, make up our minds and run over some good functioning network. God knows what's going to happen next. Let's stop the horses and think about it and really listen to the profession and remember what's going on with Pharmacy Ljubljana. You know, those of you in the city world from SDS, very well, what's going on there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings for me, too! Let me make it clear that if we do not support this proposal for a new law, the Municipality of Maribor and Ljubljana will be forced to sell their drug trade by the end of the year. These are essentially companies owned by the municipality and all the profits that these two companies create have been given back to the city’s municipalities or founders to create for their own needs. The Pharmacy Chamber is a collection of different stakeholders, of which there are only two Maribor and Ljubljana. I understand that some other pharmacies object. To expand the pharmacy network at local level, the local community is competent and it gives its consent if anyone can come into the congregation. This needs to be made clear. Maribor’s or Ljubljana’s pharmacy cannot come to a neighboring congregation because they do not have a concession without the consent of the city’s council or congregation council. In fact, we cannot understand why there would be less pharmacy in local communities. We want to avoid creating a situation that would allow public money to flow from health to private pockets, because we know that if we had to sell these two wholesalers, then probably the potential buyer would be Chemofarmation and Salus. In view of the short time frame within which sales are to be made, this can be seen as a forced sale because the purchase price for both owners, the Municipality of Maribor and Ljubljana, is very borrisome, and in the end a duopol would be created, and the residents should buy more expensive medicines at higher prices. In fact, we need to prevent the situation, as we have in the case of additional supplementary health insurance, where private insurance companies are rich. We simply do not want them to be so rich on this account with the public money of foreign multinationals who are even established abroad and will be paying taxes abroad. Does anyone imagine what an absurd situation we will be placed in if we do not change this law, which prescribes the forced sale of these two companies by the end of this year? Obviously, we're somehow witnessing that lobbyists are spending a lot of money to make this happen. Once again, if we do not adopt this amendment of the law, then the Municipality of Maribor and Ljubljana will be forced under the law to sell their velodrogerist by the end of this year. In view of the covida epidemic and the short time window remaining until the end of the year, less than four months, it is virtually impossible to make such a sale in emergency cases and it is possible to take this as a forced, criminal sale at a liquidation price. Residents would have nothing more, they would have created a monopoly of two companies in Slovenia, prices would have been higher and, of course, profits would have been obtained by foreign corporations, foreign multinationals established abroad, abroad would have paid taxes, all at the expense of public health and public money. In the SAB, we will always defend a strong public health sector that will be accessible to all under the same conditions. We will also defend that we will be established in congregations where there is no pharmacy. However, we cannot accept the fact that someone is explaining that public companies are to blame for not being a pharmacy in some congregations. Even now, certain municipalities are not interested in a private economic initiative, and now there is a way to finance public services, in some ways they would impoverish. In the SAB, of course, we will support the fact that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. As the last one has the word Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thanks again for the word. I'm going to start all over small pharmacies in some small local communities or small towns. Usually, concessionaires are there, and it is necessary to know that someone can even open such a pharmacy, need a few starters, even to fill it to fill the shelves, needs quite a few capitals. And it's logical that there's less stock there than in a frequency location. Expecting to have a pharmacy in every village in Slovenia, this expectation has no basis. However, we must certainly do our utmost to ensure that this network is broad and, above all, accessible to our citizens and citizens. If it happens that two local communities, two municipal municipalities, will be forced to sell two wholesalers, a third of the market will actually go into the hands of two companies. I must say that we have absolutely nothing in the SMC against these two companies, but we are working to ensure that Slovenia is able to operate a market economy and that there are many players fighting on the market, because this means competition and this means optimal prices, so that we get some quality product, a quality product at an appropriate price. This should also be the goal at the level of the Grosses. Now, if we two betray from this scene, we know what will happen, the prices will be higher, and even those concessionaries who now have these smaller pharmacies, which are privately owned, will be even harder to fill stocks and shelves, and the residents or users of these smaller pharmacies will be even less likely to go in there, or only when they need and rely on some basic medicine, not more complicated and more expensive, and so they will have to go somewhere further into some of the centers. So that, according to our assessment, we will have a pharmacy that will have a limited supply, so that some will still be forced to go further. In this sense, we have not solved the problem. I think that this problem will resolve itself if we provide some appropriate conditions for some of the competitiveness of different players on the market. Those statements my colleague Sukič gave me, we weren't really talking about the same thing. I was talking about privatisation, you were talking about something else. I was particularly surprised because at the previous point, when we talked about the national demographics fund, the main point was that now we want to privatise and sell everything, we come to the next point, and in fact we find that you were on the side of being in Levica, if that is sold. So that surprised me. However, I must stress once again that it is primarily Members who propose this law. This law is an emissary. As for the network, when comments were falling on how big this network should be, how big it will be, as colleague Reich said very correctly, the network is a matter of local communities and local communities have scissors and canvas in their hands and determine who comes, who can't come. But it's in the interest of a lot of people to come and get this network set up. Today, however, we ourselves have heard of the specific case of a colleague of Mojca, who explained how difficult it was to get to the pharmacy, how much energy was needed. Here the faculty is either different or the chamber does not have much competence in solving this problem. We could say that in fact every law that we deal with in the National Assembly is a lobbyist law, because we always prepare Members in one way or another, but it always comes out of love, because we solve some problems, some problems. That's why they're so obvious, the least they are, depressed. So I also believe that many and extremely strong interests are that this law also falls, so when we talk about lobbying interests, we have to look, I think, a little wider, and so do you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-14-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u217	I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 24th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
