ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned 24th meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the 46th and 47th items of the agenda, namely the Joint Biannual Report on the work of the Commission on the supervision of the Information and Security Services for 2018 and 2019 and the Report of the Commission on the supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services for 2020. We are moving on to a debate on the proposals for decisions submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, as part of the remainder of the time of the individual parliamentary group and the proposer. No amendments to the proposals were tabled. So we are moving on to a debate. The first one has the word Matjaž the German.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u2	President, I will give up this debate and I will be the last to discuss it as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u3	Okay. I see that the panellists are missing. Monica Gregorčič, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Dean Kaloh? [[No, no, ……]] Rudy Bear? [[Yeah.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. In the Marjan Sarca List, we will confirm the proposed conclusions regarding the reports on the Commission's work on the monitoring of intelligence and security services. However, I would like to point out on this occasion, as has been the case so far, but we have always come across deaf ears, that for the first time in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services cannot fully carry out its mission. Why? Because for the first time in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, this commission does not have a majority, as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do. However, it is a commission that exercises civil, democratic control over such a sensitive area of human rights as the control over the use of disguised repressive apparatus in this country. In such a sensitive area, surveillance is hampered and, of course, the coalition can also prevent it at any time. Despite the claims that the opposition has a majority, it is, of course, undeniable that if a party has a signed coalition agreement, if it thinks as a coalition, if it votes as a coalition, then it is not the opposition. We therefore appeal once again to the coalition to regulate this area and to allow the Commission to carry out its mission in accordance with the Constitution and all legislation with guaranteed conditions for its operation until the end of this Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The mandate, when I led Knovs, dealt with serious topics, serious threats, and the public also monitored the work of Knovs differently from today. Unfortunately, this is a matter of leadership, and what has now happened is primarily the responsibility of the current President. Then he deals with all possible and impossible hints, but he does not deal with what he really is. And then Slovenia comes into the position that we are witnessing to him today, when even Members can no longer come to work normally, there is a nonstop of some kabaji demonstration, which, of course, is illegal, there is no control. From this comes threats even in the worst form and, of course, this does not lead anywhere else. This will result in Slovenia's failure in the area of security and intelligence services, and unfortunately the Commission is not doing what it should do, and of course nobody else is responsible for this, as is usually said, for the Commission's responsibility. Look what's been presented to the public, and you'll understand. Knovs once did a work that was extremely important for Slovenia, controlling people who are a real danger to Slovenia. This is what we've been doing, we've been researching, we've been reporting it. Today the public is not aware of this, but it deals with hints of who is involved and similar nonsense. This, of course, does not go elsewhere than in the area where security and intelligence services are unable to carry out their tasks in full, but there is actually no control over it. And that's the problem. As a result, the conclusion is that it is very difficult to discuss, and I would rather not go into it alone. I am sorry that something that has been done so well in the past term has turned into the current situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u7	Anya Bah Žibert has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I don't have much time. I would stress this last period, 2020, even though the report has been for many years, but I have not previously cooperated and it would be unfair to talk about it. The fact is that we have opened up some important issues that may have really been completely politically inflated by the opposition. The first case was the so-called incident at the border, where great damage was done to the Slovenian Army and it turned out that the soldier acted as he had to. We continued to abuse the employment of certain knowledge of the Owl, and in this way a statement of suspicion of a crime has been made as a conclusion. As for the leaking of information, we talked a lot about it, and here too, two members of Knovs came forward with a criminal complaint. That's because we don't want Knovs to mean really like some kind of center of opinion where we could work together. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Matjaž German, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President. I'd like to thank you from this town for your professional work, my colleagues, my colleagues. Today we discussed several topics in the closed section. Let me just point out a few key points. The fact is, in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, Knovs has never been so composed in the way that the coalition is the one controlled by numbers and votes. So, the control that should be exercised is possible, but the conclusions and conclusions cannot be confirmed because, as already said, for the first time in the history of the handicapped Knovs, as far as the situation between the coalition and the opposition is concerned, which could be constitutionally disputed. I would like to see so many political cultures overcome that they will always leave this extremely important supervisory body to the opposition in the future. What has already been exposed — quite a few cases that have emerged — I am talking about an incident at the border. It is the fact that the written words on Twitter were checked by the President of the Government, whether this incident was staged and whether even Slovenian courts were behind it, which was, of course, denied. We have come to the point that some have tried to defamate a person, the Slovenian Army, and the findings have turned to God in the future that any of the politicians, including the President of the Government, should behave as our own. The Farrokh case, we have already discussed that it had a direct impact on the preparation of the suspicion of the crime service. That is, all of this was carried out by the cabinet of the President of the Government, which we have also discussed publicly and what evidence exists, and, of course, it is also an invitation to the relevant authorities to respond appropriately, more than on the spot. And the final criticism, which is intended primarily for colleagues, colleagues who have passed the rules of procedure, past legislation, if I may say so, has been highlighted at press conferences, which is inconsistent with the existing rules of procedure. As President of the Commission, I was forced to inform the President of the National Assembly three times every time. These are examples that have never occurred before, I am talking about abuses, and I hope that, as politicians of the left and right provinces, and also in the meantime, they have only acquired enough integrity to allow the supervisory authority to carry out its mission and, of course, carry out its mission in accordance with existing legislation also in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. All the debaters you wanted got your word. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it because we're not fully out of time? I see it's a bit of an interest, so I'm gonna call in the applications. Please sign up. If interest is expressed by the representative of the proposer, he shall be given the last word. The first one has the word Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thanks again. When serious subjects are addressed, then, of course, there are serious consequences. The stories that appear today as something completely new or are presented to the public in an alarming way have also been present in the past period, even worse. A specific issue of security or danger for Members and Members. When we discussed in Knovs the period covered by this report, the financing of the construction of the Ljubljana mosque funded by Qatar, and then I presented what we were talking about, it went to the public completely distorted, false information provided by Nezet Porić, Secretary-General. The result of this intervention, which I do not want to guess why it was so done, was that I received four death threats, very specific, and that some very interesting individuals dressed in cafes were walking around my home with beards. No one helped, even though I reported it to the police, everyone. Nobody. Except for the Patriot Club, which sent some of his colleagues to go there just like they did, and then slowly the matter calmed down and went into oblivion. But if such things are allowed once in a normal country, then don't be surprised if a group of irresponsible individuals is gathered outside Parliament and then committed violence, not only verbally, even physically, against Members and the police do not act. The police act if some people keep one pane, one banner, calm, they don't threaten anyone, they don't threaten anyone. The police then act, tear people apart on the ground, tie them up, lock them up for five hours at the police station, make a fool out of them, use nylon binders so that after a few days they have severe marks on their hands, which by the way is an excessive use of violence and an obvious crime. But when someone over there throws everything live at the MPs, it's not the first time, and then the police don't act. But the services that should provide the police with relevant information are obviously not working. And apparently no one is involved in this either, because it is necessary to take care of the fairy tales, but to get involved in the story. With the safety of people, of particular people, no one is involved. This is the responsibility of the one who runs Knovs in the given case. And for that, I just regret that things that had opened up in the past didn't want to be cleared up until the end and that things were going even worse today and on a larger number of people. When something comes to the public for one reason or another, one of them makes a scream and a scream, then it begins to work. But the story has a very long previous period and I am sorry that things that have been set up so well have not moved forward in that mandate until mid-2018. Also, the issue of censorship, the performance of Slovenian citizens against Slovenians in Slovenia, clearly against the provisions of the Slovenian Constitution, should in fact be looked at by Knovs, in my opinion. If I were President Knovs, I'd definitely be dealing with it. Do you know that there has now been censorship, you will not believe the Slovenian Health Agency and a great film made for the promotion of Slovenia under the leadership of the European Union currently the best Slovenian director Okorn and was presented at this central event? Do you know there have been these blockades? Do you know that there were blockades when someone warned that others were inappropriately expressing themselves? All politically motivated, all with all the elements of censorship that are obviously unconstitutional. Who does that when they allow it? I think we should all deal with this from government to Knovs, and of course nobody does. That's why the situation is the way it is. And then it's no wonder that there's not even adequate security there, and in the end it's already hitting on all the averages, because it's no longer separating who's who. What did they say in the Balkans? Who with the devil planteth pumpkins, beateth his head. Left-wings have been challenged for so long that they don't know anymore. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Since President Knovs has opened up some of the topics that we have discussed in the past year, it is also right for me to respond on my own that there will be no doubt about any matter. It's an incident first. It's not exactly what the president said. There was also a desire to criminalize those soldiers who carried out their duties. But the fact is, then the court found that there was nothing wrong here, and then the proponents of the topic moved back. But the damage was done. The damage was done in the sense that it became much more difficult for many at the border to carry out this task. It's the other way around. It's Farrokh and what's said is that someone should be overstepping their powers to inform the president. The President must be informed in accordance with the law. The Owl is obliged to inform the President of the Government of its activities, activities and so on. The fact is that we have also adopted a decision on the Commission, which is aimed at supporting the continuation of the Farrokh case. Otherwise, I'm asking the public here whether anyone could be against exploring where billions of laundered money came from. I hope at least there's no one in this national council. The next case is no longer an open matter, but it is right to know that employment in Owl has been going on since the previous term and things have continued. Not because there would be a new constitution, but because there have been new circumstances, new behaviours that have led to the decision that we have taken and that there has been a suspicion of a crime against the then Director of Sovo Kozmel, Damir Črnčec and Marjan Šarc, who are somehow connected to this matter, and the matter is not as innocent as it may seem, even from the point of view that it has been threatened by this employment actually by the Owl as an organisation. Since human resources isn't exactly what it is, I don't know how strong it is. It's a big problem. Then the leak of information. The president has already spoken about this. I agree with him that leaking is the biggest problem. The bigger problem for him is that they were press conferences. These press conferences were not related to any information that would burden Knovs in the sense that there had been any issue of classified information, on the contrary, only answers or what had been adopted and was public. But I must correct you: when you did not, Mr German, lead Knovs, led by Mr Tonin, the statements of the then coalition parties continued. Let's take a look and you'll see. Almost after every session of Knovs there was a statement, so that's not true. The bigger problem is that the information leaked from the controls, which are of a confidential nature, a secret, a complete control, and that the media knew literally on all the sides where we were, says Sovo, the NPU and the General Police Administration, exactly what was going on there. So there can't be any of these services here for me, because we can't all connect so that before we're done, we literally know where we are, what's going on, but there has to be someone else who's been informed about all these things to visit them. There was a leak of information, which at the time was more than a problem for the security of Slovenia. It was also about talking to the Owl about so - called conventions, violent protests — and they were violent — that certainly struck the security services of the country. And as a last resort. I think this is where you, President, really overstepped your powers. For 2020, you said to the Youth media that if people knew what the connection was to the neo-Nazis and the SDS, or the SDS, they would imagine in some way. That's not true! Like I said, if this connection is real, then you're like the SD party you're smuggling. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know what happened last Wednesday before Parliament with a report on the functioning of Knovs in the last three years. In addition, it is trying to insinuate, and the fact is that we were there last Wednesday's target, if you want to say, attacks or bullying or whatever the Members of the various parliamentary groups are, that the people who tried and threatened Members there did not choose either the left or the right or the yellow or the green. But I don't think this has anything to do with this report right now. What is worrying again is now this confirmation of political action or, if you want, the political abuse of Knovs because the coalition in Knovs has a majority, which is totally unacceptable, but of course suitable for politicisation. And so the coalition, in particular the SDS party, with its artificial breathing, continues to maintain an affair about alleged contentious employment in the Owl, which is drawn from the mandate of the government of Marjan Šarc, and now they are listening to it to awaken again, after thanks to the activities of Knovs, it is quite clear that this story is such that it is in the middle of a hollow and around it is nothing. Of course, I would like to say again and clearly that it is not the Commission that the Commission has not carried out any indication of the suspicion of a crime. This was not done by the commission, but by a coalition with the support of another party, which otherwise declares itself an opposition party, it is not. If he thinks as a coalition, if he votes as a coalition, he is, of course, a coalition supporter rather than an opposition. And now, on the basis of some facts that only a coalition has heard in these Owl employees' hearings, the allegations of a crime against Marjan Sarc and Damir Črnec and the former Director of Owa, without anyone actually knowing on the basis of what. On the basis of what, since in these hearings the officials in Owl were not served by any fact which could justify such a statement of suspicion of a crime. So the coalition will then have to prove for itself the validity of this announcement. The Farrokh case is not about classical information, which, of course, is also prescribed by law as the Owl informs the Prime Minister of the government. If you send some documents for review to the Cabinet of the President of the Government and they return them to you for as long as these documents do not meet the expectations of the Prime Minister of the Government, it is therefore not a matter of normal information, but rather a purely political abuse of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, I would just like to point out to the German proposaler and the current debater, Mr Medved, that, under the law, the Commission has nine members for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Of this, there are four members of the coalition by law, two of them from the SDS, one from the SMC and one from the NSI, and five members from the opposition, two from the LMŠ, one from the SD, one from the Left and one from the SNS. So this commission is made by law and should work in accordance with the legal powers. I'm guessing that's where he manipulates his members. I warn you to stick to the content, order and so on, as it is done and assembled. Procedural Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u18	Dear President! I don't want to open a debate with you. In the next few minutes, I'd like us to do the right thing that we're here for today. I'm sure you're not the one who's gonna judge what's legal and what's not. I can assure you that on the date of the signing of the Cooperation Agreement by the Slovenian National Party, the Victory of Jelinčič and its Slovenian National Party have changed its status. After consulting many lawyers, as has already been said, the commission could be illegally designed if any of us challenged its composition in the Constitutional Court. So you're not in the role of saying that everything is right and everything is legal, because you can blind yourself and your constituents, and people can't. We know the role that Victory Jelinčič and his SNS play in providing votes to the SDS politicians that you belong to. Just as much as an objection to your comment. I hope I don't have to argue with you and talk to you. Please allow Members and Members to carry out their discussions, as your President has allowed so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Just a quick answer. We have heard several times in this Chamber that the coalition has only 38 members, from the leaders of the opposition groups, from your leaders of the opposition parties, and you have called on the government to resign. If I count correctly, these 38 votes are composed only of SDS, NSI and SMC. Please ask Branet Golubovic why he says so, ask your Matjaž Han, ask any other of your colleagues in the opposition. Be consistent with the statements. Procedurally, mate Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am sorry that I did not come to you for a point of resistance for my debate first. I'll probably have to take that into account next time. But I'm going to say it again. Your intervention hasn't convinced me how many others are. The Commission does not have a majority for the supervision of intelligence and security services. He doesn't have a majority. In addition to coalition parties, it is made up by a representative of the Slovenian National Party which has signed an agreement with this coalition. I repeat, if he thinks as a coalition, if he votes as a coalition, then he is not the opposition. And if I recall the relationship in the previous term, when the government was led by a coalition led by Marjan Sarca, Levi had an agreement with the Marjan Sarca coalition at the time, and precisely because this agreement was signed, it gave up its seat in Knovs. Just so that there is no doubt as to whether or not the opposition has the majority. So, in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism for the first time, the opposition does not have a majority in Knovs. Which is extremely dangerous because it cannot fully exercise control over the use of covert investigative measures affecting such sensitive areas as human rights and freedoms. This must be known to the Slovenian public, and we will repeat this over and over again until this situation changes, even if you will correct and stop us, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u21	Well, I'm not stopping anyone. I only warned you that the leaders of your parliamentary groups, including the presidents of the parties, by the way, are talking about the coalition having only 38 votes in Parliament. They're talking to the public. You can take a look at the footage right now. And then it is extremely unfair and inconsistent to say that one of the opposition parties is part of the coalition only in a specific case. I suggest that you first consolidate your thoughts on what a coalition is and who is not a coalition and who is the opposition and who is not the opposition. If an opposition party votes in certain cases as a coalition, that does not mean that it is a coalition party. You can also look at your votes, and you will find that you voted as a coalition on several occasions. Comrade Dejan Židan, former Parliamentary President, former SD President, made a public statement on one of the main instruments concerning the work of the Government, as said in the interview with Minister Cigler King, that he would not support the interpretation. So he's also a coalition member? It's not. Anya Bah Žibert has a procedural process.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm not going to repeat this because I think you've made this very clear. I would just like to ask you to invite my colleague Medved to follow the rules of procedure, but above all what we have accepted in a certain commitment to ethics, that we are still truthful. I do not think that the deception he has afforded is correct, and therefore this procedural proposal. The fact is, there was a Commission decision on this employment on Owl. Someone can't speak now, who voted, the fact is that this is the conclusion of the Commission. So someone is voting for, someone against, like in the National Assembly, when we adopt laws, this decision of the National Assembly, someone is in favour, someone is in favour. We can't say now that this decision isn't. Because then let us begin with the Constitutional Court — because there are some separate opinions, it is no longer a conclusion, but it is an agreement of individuals. We can't go like this. However, we are in the house and here I ask you to call on us to be truthful in the name of the code we have adopted. And I think that the previous subject is incorrect, all the controls, the president will have to confirm it, they've run, no surveillance has been stopped, or he hasn't been carried out. So it is not true that the supervisory function could not be performed in this area. And I'm surprised that all of a sudden it's so exposed. There was an agreement called the Development Partnership years ago. No one at the time talked about the composition of Knovs about a problem. I don't know how Knovs would have been drawn up at the time, because the Partnership for Development was a multi-party partnership. I don't think it makes any sense to go back to the report. As I say, my call, Vice President, to you to invite Members to the truth because people don't know and then think that anything is really wrong. The decision was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. There's no replica in procedural. Before I give the floor to Dusan Šišku, even for a procedural proposal, I would only point out that the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services works at closed meetings, takes decisions at closed meetings and publishes only a decision, adoption. Not how individual someone voted. That is why, at this stage, I find the debate about what kind of party Knovs thinks is incorrect. And it's also not in line with the law, because you find certain things that are connected to the work of Knovs in closed sessions. This is said to be a secret in some way. Procedural Dušan Shiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u24	Chairman, thank you. I have to take a call because you keep warning and talking about the Slovenian National Party. Dear colleague Matjaž German, I have a long memory, maybe you don't. You know we supported you all the time without any signature. If someone screwed you up, it's that side there from you on the right side that was blackmailing you. When the new government met, you did not once call us to this day, nor did you ask us from the beginning whether we would support the new government or whether we would still be the opposition and support you. At that time there were 53 with our three votes, saying 50 Members of Parliament about the start of the government. Please stop interfering with the Slovenian National Party for once, because we have done nothing to you. We're the last ones to leave you, who left you first, and you know it. When you didn't get blackmail when you accepted the rebalancing, you had to take half an hour off to comply. Then came the budget for 2020 and 2021, the Slovenian National Party announced that it would support you again, again, I repeat, and then you lost Levica because she knew that she would not be able to blackmail you. But we confirmed it with our votes. Therefore, please stop mentioning the Slovenian National Party, mention other Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Please come in the direction of the debate. Comrade German, do you have a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u26	Dear President, I don't understand. Every time you come to this House, the debate goes down a dead end. For now you have allowed both Ambassador Žibert and Mr Šišek a purely substantive debate and even accounting, for which this institution is not. You who declare yourself as someone who should know the rules of procedure and are very eager to teach us – neither one nor the other should not discuss substantive matters. So let me explain certain things in the same way that he did. With regard to the implementation of Mr Šiška. I respect him, of course, and respect his opinion. We are not talking about the coalition and opposition in the National Assembly and the Government, we are talking about the role of the Slovenian National Party in Knovs. As it is said, the relationship is disrespectful when not only your president is not here today, but your client did not have a point of view on this issue. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, the opposition does not have a majority in this body. But you can interpret as you do as Chairman as you want, the fact is that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u27	Comrade German, don't interfere with the freedom of customers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u28	The fact is that you are de facto on the other hand with the signed partnership on cooperation. That's a fact. We are talking about a democracy that is disabled, especially when we speak in terms of control. That's one thing. About Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert's debate. Of course, Mrs Žibertova, look, there is a whole series of differences between us that we should resolve democratically, in agreement with the rules of procedure and regulations. In what you are saying mainly in terms of voting on a document that will go against the prosecution that you have prepared – I am talking about the Lepa Natasha affair – it is evident that the coalition did not participate. So, the only vote where we named individuals for the responsibility they bear is that Knovs has been excluded here, and in fact you voted what you want because you can always vote what you want because you have the majority. And that's what people blame you for. Because this is actually an eclectic example of the limitation of democracy. You have a control authority like Knovs, the only one, and in fact you're shutting it down. And you expect people to understand that. They showed theirs yesterday. Democracy is the key to trust in the people you've lost. An efficient example of this is the situation on the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, where you deliberately restrict the functioning of the opposition, and you can take decisions, whatever you want, and boast about it. But it has to be said that you have a majority, for the first time in history. No one else has ever hoped, neither the first nor the second Janša government, nor the government of Charcé, nor the government of Pahor, nor the government of Alenka Bratušek, so scrupulously abuse the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services with the majority that you actually have. And these are the facts. But you can interpret in any way for your constituents things that are opposite and are not true. So much so that it's clear about the record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Before I give the word forward [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's not a replica, you don't have a replica. There are no replicas on the procedural proposals. There are no replicas on the procedure. Comrade German, I have only pointed out in the first part to the composition of the commission, because it appears to be inconsistent with what you said, as well as colleague Medved. In the second phase, I have only reminded you of the secrecy of the work of the Commission, both in the debate and in the decision-making process. Nothing else. I propose that you take this into account in the discussions in advance. Look at the law, look at your rules of procedure, and you'll see it's exactly as I said it would be. But all the rest are manipulations that are time-altered, and nothing else. Procedurally, please, Comrade Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u30	Vice President, then don't explain some of the rules under which Knovs works, and don't manipulate them either. Since you are talking about the secrecy of the vote in Knovs, the coalition after this vote, when it voted on the suspicion of the crime of employment in Owl, came before the cameras, complete, and said what it had voted on Knovs. So much for your interpretation of secrecy, when you're calling on us to keep our secrets.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Comrade Korazi, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u32	The President-in-Office, my procedural appointment is to Mr Šišk, the SNS Member. Please warn him not to spread any more falsehoods about what he mentioned earlier because none of this is true. Please refrain from any spread of untruths, because I know that it has recently become here in the National Assembly as a priority there on the other side. Well, look, things are not true, and please let him know that he's not doing this anymore or that he's not spreading it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Comrade Korazi, I have pointed out the inconsistencies or incorrect statements of those who spoke of the composition of the commission. So there are no conflicting opinions in this part. Anya Bah Žibert still has procedural procedures. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all, I'd like to say that this is again a matter of deceiving and relating to the ethical code and respect. I'm surprised the former minister somehow doesn't want to hear it, but he does. One more time. On Knovs we discussed the subject of so-called inadmissible jobs as a secret. Last but not least, we had interviews and so on and we don't talk about them. Once we reached our conclusions, these conclusions came to light because no degree of secrecy, nor the lowest, had been given, became public and we could talk about them. This is important for citizens and citizens. And secondly, it is not true that only the coalition has accepted us, as we say, had to vote more. And third of all, which I think is a terrible delusion, is the following. The conclusions went on under the name of Knovs, and the fact is that the President did not wish to put them to the vote, so an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was requested. The Legislative and Legal Service said that the conclusions were correct, that they were in accordance with the legislation and the rules of procedure, and that is why we have dealt with them, adopted them and made them known to the public. But I believe that some of these things hurt a lot, but let the organs do their job. The fact is that the suspicion has also raised for the President of the LMŠ and that this is a major problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Procedural Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u36	Mr President, I just want to know what the motion was. My procedural proposal is to tell me what procedural proposal Anja Bah Žibert has just proposed. That's one thing. Second thing. Just let me answer that. I asked for the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service because no one has ever done so before us, and it was not any delay. We have done everything by hand, as we can, and you know it, without unnecessary additions I ask you kindly for a little respect and respect for colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I must remind you that, in fact, all of you who have applied the procedure have gone beyond the content or meaning of the procedural proposal. So there are no exceptions here. I propose that we proceed with the debate. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u38	Vice President, thank you. After these non-productive procedural proposals, let us move in fact to the mother of the report. For 2020, since the new team is Knovs' new membership, eight controls have been carried out in this reporting year, and I must also make it clear that there are never any blockades. No roadblocks ever. Thus, the insinuations that are supposed to be based on this inadequate state of the commission are in fact only floscules and incorrect accusations. Let me also say that the composition of the Commission is in accordance with the law and is in accordance with the rules of procedure. So let's give this ad acta finally finish and the public hears that everything here is black and white. What is not, or is, less black in white or in a field of irregularity? If I remain in control, what colleagues and colleagues have already said is a symptomatic leakage of information from these controls. Whether it is a very very very simultaneous leak of information, because this information is practically coming out of control on the same day in the media, or whether it is with some phased delay, however, someone is obviously using illegal practices, and this is, of course, for the reputation and trust of Knovs really catastrophic. I hope that the authorities – certain suspicions of crime – will also do their job professionally and that we will also come to the bottom of this matter, how it is possible that some of the information, from the control decision to the control of the supervised institutions themselves, is then read by the universal Slovenia. That's, look, unacceptable. By March 2020, when the new composition of the Commission was teamed up, we were clarifying some important matters for the national security of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me just remind you of the meeting on the impact of extremists on the assessment of the security situation in the Republic of Slovenia. At least there I did not detect the so-called yellow vests in some position where they would have been established just as those who threatened the national security of the Republic of Slovenia, but I saw that there were some 90% of these leftist extremist groups, which had already manifested violence on Slovenian streets. And that actually seems very worrying to me. As far as it is concerned, it has been mentioned, not in the context of this report, but I think it is necessary to point this out. Not only verbal, our member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Leon Merjasec, was then, last Tuesday, even physically attacked by a so-called hockey strike, said shoulder to shoulder. I think if this happened somewhere else, we'd be all the bells right now. The attack, the physical attack on the Member is definitely also an indirect attack on the national security of the Republic of Slovenia. By reducing this that we were all involved in this verbal, I do not know Mr. Merjasec was physically assaulted. [[…]] Member of the National Assembly – this is unacceptable. I hope that the institutions are monitoring, if this attacker may also be connected to some extremist group that has a god who has no connection abroad. I hope the authorities hear me and that they will also now or have already taken appropriate action. The chronological review of this report for 2020 is structured in such a way as to cover agenda items and also decisions on the points under consideration, there is no problem in this report. As far as the proposal for a decision is concerned, I agree, however, that the professional and objective functioning of Knovs should be the one that must be followed, and especially by President Knovs, because he is the one who intensifies the course of individual meetings and is the compulsory inter-pares between us members of Knovs. So, Madam President, I really hope that even in the future until the end of this [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. As the last speaker gets the floor, the President of Knovsa Matjaž Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I agree with the last words spoken, and we have in fact introduced for the first time in this mandate a way of citing meetings in the same way as the rules of procedure, because there have been exceptional derogations in the past from what is stated in the acts that dictate our way of action. I will touch on these key reports, particularly perhaps a little more up-to-date, starting with the surprise that the Member and Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party are speaking today about never blocking control. That is true, but I am surprised at the need to stress this, for I do not know who we can thank for not preventing control. I'd be a first-class scandal if anyone prevented control. That's our job. What we are, in fact, exposing all the time is the lack of coherence between the opposition's relations and the coalition with the help of the Helinčič Victory and the Slovenian National Party. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, the opposition does not have a majority in such an important body as the supervisory authority, a civilian body within the National Assembly, which is the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Of course, always, all mandates have been one of the key challenges in limiting information leakage, namely, we Members and Members are given extremely sensitive data. It is the responsibility of each individual and of our fellow workers to handle these also in accordance with the law. During this term of office, we were never once in control of any camera, nor was it ever possible to prove the leaking of information, which is what the National Bureau of Investigation is also dealing with, as has been said. The enigma in how it is possible at the time of control, whether technically or physically, to produce certain information on certain portals. Which, of course, excludes the responsibility of Members and Members, if we know exactly how these procedures are going. So it is probably necessary to ask somewhere else why certain information is coming, not colleagues and colleagues. Here I must defend all the coalition, the opposition, that I am very seriously convinced that this is not happening in this mandate to the extent that it is in the past. I think it's progress, anyway. I hope this will continue until the end of this mandate. I'll point out some of the key issues. The incident at the border where it was proven, thank God the soldiers didn't overstep their powers, which is good. What will be in the eyes is mainly the tweeting of the Prime Minister of the Government, where he wrote about the event being staged by the opposition and, in fact, by the attention of the Slovenian courts, which was, of course, denied by all sides. This is what will be in your eyes – that the Prime Minister of the Government is flying with so-called spins in a way that is confusing the central Slovenian daily in Italy, this is the Primorski dinika, and the individual who found himself could say, even in the perplexity of life. Because immediately attacks on him, mainly by, unfortunately, coalition types, the SDS party, when Mr Malalan was a person, was publicly announced, repeatedly attacked by certain individuals because of this incident, in which he happened by chance. What will be in your eyes is certainly cooperation between the Owl and the cabinet of the President of the Government in preparing draft criminal offences when we are talking about the Farrokh case. He was given such a dimension that the Prime Minister of the Government was in a great deal of trouble, and that's why the Ambassador in Tehran was also called to defend himself, even the Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, I'm talking about Josep Borrell, and today he has distanced himself from what Mr. Janez Janša said in the case of Iran. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u41	Comrade German, this is not part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u42	I'm talking about how angry someone is trying to corrupt relations between us and some other countries, even to the detriment of an alliance within the European Union. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u43	Comrade German, the debate is about the report, not about what you said, what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u44	It is particularly important to maintain some objectivity in reporting, I agree with that, and credibility. Because that's the only thing we have. And to enable the commission to do its job. But what I can say with conviction is that for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia this is impossible and is only a question of our ingenuity, how can we take certain conclusions or not. As for the announcements Knovs has made and will mediate, they can be substantively inconsistent because the coalition has the power to accept whatever it wants. Only the sobriety of the organs will prove whether the coalition was right or wrong. What I would point out is that, once again, in certain votes in the opposition, we have been excluded from the vote, which is explicitly stated in all the minutes. Thank you very much. I want all the good to our country and, above all, the smooth work in democratic institutions. It's got to end and people [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The work of the committees, the committees of the National Assembly, is also dependent on leadership, not just on something else. I'm closing the debate. The National Assembly will vote on the proposals for conclusions tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I'm breaking up with this 46th and 47th agenda. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on Extradition within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I don't see a government representative. Let's wait a minute. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u46	Nicely greeted! Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to apologize to the Minister, who is carrying out his presentations to the European Parliament on these very days. As regards amendments to the Cooperatives Act, I should like to introduce briefly, which are the points that are changing. First time. Voting on the working bodies of cooperatives by mail and by means of electronic means, strengthening the supervisory and management functions of cooperatives and cooperatives of particular importance. When we talk about voting on the working bodies of cooperatives by mail and by means of electronic means, this law provides for additional voting opportunities by mail. It's about cooperatives with special meaning. The draft law also introduces a new cooperative institute with a particular meaning, which is aimed primarily at cooperatives, which, in addition to their basic function, also carry out integration tasks. As regards the strengthening of the supervisory and management functions of cooperatives, in particular the protection of property and cooperative activities, the aim of the law is also to strengthen the supervisory and management powers of cooperatives. In the end, a register of cooperatives of particular importance shall also be established, which shall be made publicly and free of charge. The status of cooperatives of particular importance may be one of the criteria for obtaining public funds on calls for proposals signed by each ministry or local community within the framework of its approved budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u48	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft law as the working body of the mother at its 29th session, on 23 July. 6. 2021. In the debate, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in an additional explanation for the written opinion, stressed that their comments were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The proposal for the amendment of the Committee to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 5 is also appropriate. In the debate, the President of the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food presented the opinion of the Commission, the proposal supports the law, giving cooperatives the opportunity to organise distance operations in cooperative rules in a way that allows members of the general assemblies to participate and vote in the general assembly without physical presence. The Commission also points out that, according to past practice, the proposed legislative strengthening of the supervisory and management powers of the members of cooperatives by introducing the Institute of Auditors is welcome. In the past, because of poor business, especially since cooperatives have moved away from their basic business, and the non-action of the members of cooperatives has been limited to the bankruptcy of agricultural cooperatives, where many irregularities have been identified. Therefore, the desire to make cooperatives more transparent is more than necessary. The Commission also supports the regulation of the status of cooperatives of particular importance for cooperatives, which, in addition to their basic function, also carry out the tasks of linking and providing social or other services in their geographical field. Representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia also expressed support for the proposed solutions to the bill. In a short discussion, members of a coalition group committee supported the proposed solutions, which they thought were welcome, as changes in the area of association are necessary if we are to put them on a new footing. The belief was also expressed that today young farmers see a much greater opportunity in society than young people did 30 years ago. Today, young people are well-educated and want to be actively involved in business processes and participate in the cooperative control process, which will also allow them all the proposed provisions. It was also pointed out that in the area of agriculture there are numerous institutions such as the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia, trade unions, NGOs and so on, which are sometimes their own purpose. All of these stakeholders should be better connected to achieve greater efficiency in the provision of services to farmers and cooperatives. In addition, some cooperatives operate well, others do not, which depends not only on legislation and institutions, but also on the way in which cooperatives and interests are managed and the ambitions of farmers, what they expect from cooperatives at all. In the debate, the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 5 and identified the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and adopted them and adopted the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act. The purpose of the amendment is to modernise the cooperative structures in our country and to enable them to fulfil their mission effectively and transparently. The new cooperative law provides for cooperatives to be able to vote their members remotely, either by means of electronic identification or by mail. The cooperatives will be given the opportunity to sign their records by qualified electronic signature and to cooperate with the members of the administrative or supervisory authority of cooperatives through electronic identification means. We are in favour of these changes in the Modern Centre Party Group, as we are convinced that cooperatives must also follow modern social trends and have the opportunity to use modern technologies. We must not forget that cooperative schemes in our places have had a historically important role, and today, when capital requirements for competitive market participation are quite high, participation in cooperatives for a variety of farmers is the only way to keep pace with competition on the market. This is why modernisation of the traditional system is all the more important as it allows all stakeholders to participate effectively in cooperatives and to devote as much time as possible to their primary mission. We also welcome the anticipated changes that are working towards strengthening the supervision of the cooperative's operations. We believe that it is right for the supervisory authorities to monitor the transparency of cooperatives' operations in a manner similar to that of companies' law. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the social significance of some cooperatives is much wider than the outlined limits of their operations, so we are particularly inclined to introduce new laws introducing the status of cooperatives with a special meaning, which will identify those cooperatives who, in addition to their basic mission, also carry out the tasks of linking and providing social processes in their geographical area. We are pleased that cooperatives in many Slovenian agricultural environments are once again growing into sovereign communities, giving smaller Slovenian producers the opportunity to break into the market with their crops and products, and gradually becoming centres of social integration in the Slovenian countryside. On the basis of the above facts, we will support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word, again. The proposal for amendments and additions lays down the legal basis for the electronic operation of cooperative bodies. The cooperatives will be able to establish procedures for voting their members by post and also allow them to participate and vote in the general assembly without physical presence by applying for it by means of electronic identification. In order to strengthen the possibility of control of the cooperative’s operations, the Institute of Auditor, which is an audit firm and is comparable to the regulation of a special auditor in company law to carry out an audit of the company’s business, management or individual business, shall also be introduced. It also introduces the status of cooperatives with a particular meaning, which is aimed primarily at cooperatives, which, in addition to their basic function, also carry out the tasks of linking and providing social or other services in their geographical area. It is envisaged that the merger and division of cooperatives procedures should be expedited in such a way as to allow the application for a merger or division of cooperatives to be brought before the Court within seven days of the conclusion of the General Assembly which adopted a decision on the merger or division of cooperatives. With these legal solutions, the bill also brings some editorial changes. In the SAB Group, we support the partnership, because we believe that cooperatives are extremely important for a society, for an economic environment. This is especially true in agriculture. We agree that cooperatives have a great opportunity to become a continuous central supplier of Slovenian trades in agricultural crops and products. Modern and sustainable provision of quality food should be based on local food, for which there is a reliable producer or producer, and cooperatives in the role of logistics in the comprehensive supply chain, including the care for the development and conservation of the geographical area on which they operate. In the parliamentary group, we will support the bill because it brings only minor but positive changes, which are welcome. Nevertheless, we call on the Government and the Ministry to make further and more concrete changes in terms of the further development of the society. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Slovenia is one of the oldest cooperative countries in the world, so we can say that we do have a richly united tradition. Even today, when it comes to individualism, cooperatives are still an important tool that combines and strengthens the power of smaller producers. Today's amendment to the Cooperatives Act, which is the eighth since the adoption of the Act 20 years ago, aims to strengthen the supervisory and management powers of members of cooperatives in order to protect the assets and activities of cooperatives. Therefore, the Institute of Auditor, which is an audit company and is comparable to the regulation of a special auditor in company law, is being introduced. The auditors may be appointed by the Management Board or the Chair of the cooperative in the last three years for the revision of a particular legal business if the cooperative does not have an administrative board. The epidemic has shown the need for remote access, so the proposal for a new law allows cooperative rules to establish procedures for voting members of the cooperative by post and that members may vote and participate in the general assembly by applying for it by means of electronic identification or other means of access to electronic services in accordance with the rules governing electronic identification. The bill introduces a new cooperative institute with special meaning. This title will be obtained by cooperatives that are more successful in a particular geographical area and have a particular importance for their geographical area. The status of cooperatives of particular importance may also be one of the criteria for obtaining funds from public tenders signed by each ministry or local community within the framework of its approved budget. The cooperatives will be further motivated in this way, which will benefit all stakeholders, and we welcome this. Among other things, the epidemic has put the issue of self-sustainment at the forefront. Agriculture is now facing one of the biggest breakthroughs between the price of the agricultural repromised input and the prices of agricultural products. The market balance is broken and the distribution of earnings is unfairly transferred to the other end of the supply chain. Partners are aware that all possible measures need to fix this relationship and ensure fair payment for farmers. It is therefore today the primary task of farmers and cooperatives to start designing business processes and models so that they can provide appropriate prices and fair pay for all those involved in the chain. We will have to improve the cooperative system in the future, so we can certainly expect additional activities in this area. If we want to be as self-sustaining as possible, we must first and foremost ensure the survival of the Slovenian farmer. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! The bill is certainly a small step towards improving the rural situation and, above all, benefits local farmers, thus opening up the necessary possibility of starting a partial improvement in self-sustainment in Slovenia. Self-sustainment at the time of the epidemic has proved to be an emergency and a goal that should be pursued in Slovenia if we also want to stay in the field of nutrition and become independent and independent. Although in the past, the cooperative has had negative reputations for making too many mistakes. Unfortunately, we also have such a bad experience in Ormož. Unfortunately, years ago, the Agricultural Association Ormož went bankrupt. Individuals in the past wanted to subordinate and own cooperatives and fear is also justified. I hope that revisions or audit institutes will achieve their purpose and crush abuses in cauldrons. The status of cooperatives with special meaning is also a welcome step. We have certain reservations regarding the designation of geographical areas that are in the hands of the competent minister. We are at a time of digitisation and everything that goes in this direction is welcome. But it is true that we are or are generations that have problems with it. Fortunately, there are also young takeovers on farms and it is right to allow them the path and way for young generations to return to the countryside. The cooperatives are a good start to this path. We have no problems in supporting this amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings for everyone! The first article of the Cooperatives Act states: “The cooperative is an organisation of an indefinite number of members, which aims to promote the economic benefits and develop the economic or social activities of its members and is based on a voluntary approach, free exit, equal cooperation and the management of members.” The fact is, in history, cooperatives played a very important role, particularly in agriculture. Today, too, the most widespread cooperatives in the field of agriculture are in Slovenia, and in recent times we also know cooperatives in other areas. Above all, cooperatives in the field of agriculture have a very important task to undertake, and this is to help save Slovenia in self-sustaining food. In addition, in recent times, given that the prices of material are rising, especially from imports, they help to ensure that farmers do not run out of necessary material. In our view, the proposal for a law is a good response to the current state of society, in the view of the SDS Group, because we are dealing mainly with two key issues through the law. One is how to increase the possibility of control and the other chapter, which we listened to with great interest at the presentation, is the chapter on cooperatives with special purpose. Finally, it is not such a small thing that the law prescribes the possibility of voting by post and allows the members of the cooperative to apply to the meeting of the general assembly by means of electronic identification or to sign a record by qualified electronic signature, which is in line with one of the paradigms of this government, in order to modernise and also give de-de-irocratisation an appropriate place. As has already been said, with regard to the possibility of increased control, in particular with a view to strengthening the audit, we believe that the law is going in the right direction, that it will not occur in particular areas of individual cooperatives, but that there will be no more problems. As it is said, we very much welcome the introduction of a cooperative institution with a particular meaning, which is aimed primarily at cooperatives, which, in addition to their basic function, also carry out integration tasks, ensure the raising of the standard for the local population and the provision of social or other services in their geographical area. In the SDS Group, we support the articles of the law. At the same time, we want to give the new leadership of the Joint Undertaking a great deal of success in expanding society, and especially in linking it to both a vertical and a horizontal level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u60	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Digital or electronic signatures and identifications with which we can sign and confirm different documents through electronic devices, especially with the help of computers, have become something completely normal and everyday. We may have become more careful about them and have served them in recent months, as we use them to regulate vaccination certificates that can already cross borders and travel. Electronic signature and electronic identification are part of the proposed solutions to the cooperative bill, which was written at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. But this is not the only solution proposed or part of it. The legal solutions, if adopted, will allow cooperatives to establish procedures for voting members of the cooperative by post and members will be able to vote and participate in the general assembly by applying for it by means of electronic identification. However, the minutes of the meetings may be signed by a qualified electronic signature equivalent to the signature of their own-time. An Institute of Auditor shall be established to ensure that the management and operation of cooperatives or cooperatives are in accordance with the laws and will also take care of the transparency and proper functioning of cooperatives. The proposed solution for some cooperatives to recognise the status of cooperatives of particular importance will bring a number of advantages and benefits to cooperatives. According to the applicants, the marriage proposal is in line with the Association of Slovenia and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. The fact that the proposed legal material is in line with the stakeholders most affected by the solutions suggests that the law should be supported. The proposed objectives and, above all, the solutions to the law will be supported in the Group of Social Democrats. We recognized them as good and indispensable. Social Democrats share the opinion of the State Council that cooperatives are not only agricultural but all very important in terms of the sale of goods and the supply of our citizens and residents with various goods in rural areas of Slovenia. Cooperatives and cooperatives need to be encouraged and allowed to further develop and grow. It is the cooperatives that offer us fresh and locally grown food, as well as the protection of local food producers and other products. Cooperatives and cooperatives from day to day acquire their visibility and importance, while at the same time they are an important promoter of local food, food producers and, after all, tourism and other offers from the local environment where they operate and operate. We will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u62	Respected and respected! Thank you for your word and thank you for helping the lady here, who is here so well and regularly disinfecting things here. The Cooperatives Act defines them as “the organisations of an indefinite number of members who are intended to promote the economic benefits and develop the economic or social activities of their members and are based on a voluntary approach, free exit, equal cooperation and the management of members”. The law lays down the conditions for their establishment, operation, areas of operation and so on. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act extends the said cooperative rights by allowing for the participation and voting of members with an application to the assembly by means of electronic identification. The minutes of the meetings may also be digitally signed after the new one. Surely this change is welcome not only for the special cases we are in, but also for the long term. Members of cooperatives shall be allowed to participate more easily in the bodies and in the management of the cooperative. Modern technical solutions allow the Administrative and Supervisory Committee to participate in both meetings and for signature. For 15 days, the time limit shall be reduced for the cooperative to provide the required information and information to the members and to take a look at its business books and correspondence. Now this deadline has been set for 30 days, which in some cases may be too long. The Institute of Auditor is also being introduced. It shall be appointed by the Management Board or the Chair of the cooperative, but may also be appointed by the majority of the general assembly of the members present or represented. In the event of suspicion of damage to members or serious infringements of the law, the auditor may also appoint an auditor on a proposal of at least 10% of members who are members of the cooperative for at least three years. Audits may be even more important in cooperatives, as they not only allow for a better review of the functioning and possible rationalisations as well as the necessary adjustments, but they can help, in particular regular ones, to strengthen integration and trust within, which is vital for the long-term survival of the cooperative. The status of cooperatives of particular importance is also introduced for cooperatives, which, in addition to their basic function, carry out the tasks of linking and providing social or other services in their geographical area. As such and cooperatives will have a decisive impact on the quality of life of the local population. They will be able to run on various tenders and thus acquire public funds for the purposes of their operation and development. These cooperatives will be decided by the competent ministries according to the scope of the cooperative. Due to more systematic and less biased activities, it might be better to create a single point not only for the register but also for setting up and abolishing and extending the status of cooperatives of special importance. As dispersion as a result of professional competence may be a better choice, it would be better to establish a single point or commission for this purpose in order to facilitate evaluation. It would be better to separate each year's decision on the continued existence of conditions for the status of cooperatives from each other's policy. In particular, the mandate of the current government has shown that any decision can be highly arbitrary, depending on political allies and science. Despite some of the concerns and points raised, we will support the proposed amendment to the Cooperatives Act in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be moved by Iva Dimic. Wait a minute, Iva. [[Disinfection of the phone]] . Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. That's what it takes to keep us safe. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! The form of society has been known in Slovenia for more than 150 years. The first inventions of the society, which later led to the development of successful dairy cooperatives, started in the first half of the 19th century in Syrian societies in Tolminska and Bohinjska. One of the socialist fathers in Slovenia, Janez Evangelist Krk, had a partnership for the most typical economic Christian arrangement, which arose from the need to protect the Slovenian farmer and preserve the Slovenian land in his possession. If this was considered to be a good century and a half ago, the need to protect Slovenian farmers, land and food is much greater in today's time and conditions, which must have been strongly affected by the covida-19 epidemic. The law on cooperatives that we are dealing with today brings exactly this. After at least 30 years and more of the cooperatives law has established relations within cooperatives and has defined governance and accountability more clearly. Management and control will be in the hands of farmers, this is the members of the cooperative. However, the introduction of the Institute of Auditors is welcome and necessary. We welcome the possibility for cooperatives to lay down procedures with their rules, such as the voting of members of the association by post and the voting and participation of the general assembly by means of electronic identification means without physical presence. In the past, there have been few bankruptcys of agricultural cooperatives that have identified a number of irregularities due to poor business and, above all, to cooperatives moving away from their basic business and mission and to the non-action of the members of the cooperative. I can only mention two cooperatives, Krpan and Jason, who have sadly completed their mission and have lost their pay for the milk, wood and livestock. Such cooperatives certainly did not carry out their mission and, as a result, there was a lack of confidence among farmers, including partial abandonment of farming and the production of healthy domestic food. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we welcome the arrangement of the status of cooperatives of special importance, where cooperatives, in addition to their basic function, also carry out the tasks of linking and providing social or other services in their geographical area. Here I would like to point out the cooperatives that I know best and are also among the successful, Agraria Koper, Sora Jury and the Tolmin Agricultural Association, with the Milky Way Planika, who in the most difficult times of dairy bought milk from domestic farmers and did not lower prices. Thus, farmers had a stable and reliable source of dairy income, which had an important impact on the development of the whole of the Tolmin area and, as a result, increased trust and belonging to the cooperative. It is therefore some kind of incentive lever for cooperatives that insist on a financially difficult marginal environment, develop business and add new activities. Such cooperatives will be given the opportunity and opportunity to raise funds on public tenders, which has given them a number of difficulties in the past. The status will be granted by the Ministry responsible for the area in which the cooperative operates on the basis of legal criteria for a period of two years. Certainly today's law will not solve all decades of accumulated problems in Slovenian society, but will strengthen control and governance, which has proved completely ineffective in recent years. The Slovenian consumer wants good, quality and healthy home food, and cooperatives need to see the desire and challenge to get close to it. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by the proposal for a cooperative law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the agricultural law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Magi. Mr Aleš Irgolič, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Law on the regulation of medium and content assemblies. First, beneficiaries for agricultural policy measures. As a beneficiary of agricultural policy measures, it is now defined only as an agricultural holding and not as an agricultural holding. The autonomous transfer of payment entitlements shall be suspended in the event of a change in the holding. Next. It shall monitor the balance of organic substances and nutrients in agricultural soils, so that competence is laid down to monitor the status of organic substances in agricultural soils. Next. It regulates monitoring of agricultural soil and manure. Simplification of administrative procedures for the implementation of agricultural policy measures, the granting of public authority to the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia to carry out the tasks of preparing a regular report on the situation in the field of agriculture and food. An electronic signature, which is becoming equivalent to the one-in-a-lifetime, is being drawn up to introduce a legal basis to simplify the procedures for the conclusion of insurance policies relating to agricultural production insurance, introducing a legal basis that reduces the administrative burden on the parties in cases of proof of the conditions of tax and tax liability settled against the State. It regulates the public procurement obligations of foodstuffs; it redefines the obligation of the food contracting authority under the public procurement rules to take into account the proportion of both organic food and food products in the quality scheme in the implementation of public contracts. The minimum proportion of organic food is thus 15% and food from quality schemes 20%. It is regulated to determine how agricultural crops and foodstuffs are sold, the traceability of origin, and thus to determine that the farm can only sell to the final consumer, in the framework of the basic agricultural activity, agricultural crops produced on the farm. The proposal also provides for the indication of the origin of the food on reception documents or invoices. In the Section of the Agricultural and Food Supply Chain, the Agricultural Act is amended mainly for the purpose of transposing Directive 2019/633 on unfair commercial practices between undertakings in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. Next. Payment deadlines for perishable and other agricultural food products shall be adjusted. This Directive is also transposed by the European Union Directive on unfair trade practices between undertakings in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. This is how the deadlines are re-set for rapidly perishable foods up to a maximum of 30 days and for other agricultural products up to a maximum of 60 days. The law will regulate illegal practices in the food supply chain. Due to the introduction of the directive, a significant market power depends on annual turnover, suppliers and buyers is being redefined. It regulates the operation of the Guardian of relations in the food supply chain. Thus, in addition to certain annual reports, the Ombudsman will also have to prepare three-month periodic reports on the situation of unfair business practices in the food supply chain. The conditions for the appointment and discharge of the Ombudsman, the procedures of the Executive Body of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition shall also be supplemented. This introduces additional tasks to be carried out by the Agency, which will act as the supervisory authority, prepare annual activity reports and cooperate in coordinating tasks with other countries and the European Commission. The arrangements for the control and certification of hops and hop products are further regulated. This establishes the competent authority for the control and certification of hops and hop products, which also regulates the power to perform tasks. Furthermore, the law will regulate the harmonisation of the delivery of public services in the field of agriculture, including livestock, and facilitate the preparation of a public service programme. It will further regulate the regulation of agricultural records, the specific management of existing databases, certain new databases, records of the standard income of agricultural holdings, registers of vegetable growers and herbs. It also covers areas in the area of organic farming under the last point, where the transposition of Regulation 2018/848 of the European Union on organic farming is also concerned. The news concerns new products that can be used in organic farming, namely the control system. Catalogue of infringements and sanctions, new records [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u67	Secretary of State, I suggest you finish your presentation slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u68	Yeah. That's what I'm done with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft law as the working body of the mother at its 29th session, on 23 July. 6. 2021. The Committee has received an opinion from the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. A written opinion was sent to the Committee by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made a number of specific comments to most of the articles of the bill. In an additional presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the proposed law was in fact a matter of extensive amendments and additions and that the addition of individual sets of articles was not just a novel with 76 articles, but a novel with more than 90 articles. In view of this extent, a new law should be drawn up in accordance with the Nomotechnical Guidelines. Otherwise, a new marriage would be a welcome one, for it is already rather opaque and hard to read because of past and current changes. She also added that some of their comments from the written opinion were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, and some were responded by additional explanations and explanations. Representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia and the Farmers' Union participated in the discussion and expressed support for the proposed solutions. In the discussion, the majority of the proposed solutions in the draft law were assessed as appropriate, notably the abolition of automatic transfer of payment rights in the event of a change in the holding of the agricultural holding, the establishment of systematic monitoring of agricultural soil conditions and fertilisation arrangements. However, disagreement was expressed with regard to the Committee's proposals for amendments prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which were taken by the member of the Committee, Branko Simonovic, and with which the information of KMG-MID is withdrawn. KMG-MID is a unique and unique agricultural holding identification number, the use of which is mandatory in all Ministry databases relating to the agricultural economy. It shall be determined upon entry into the register of agricultural holdings. Finally, in Article 9 of the bill, the Government also stated that the information belonging to the agricultural economy is an object and is public. The KMG-MID would allow food traceability in line with the EU strategy, from villas to forks. The number of KMG-MIDs is based on all traceability of food production units or all agricultural production units, which includes land, animals, plant locations, plant protection and so on. The consumer may, on the basis of the entry of the KMG-MID number obtained from the farmer, check on the web browser on which land the food marketed by the farmer is produced. If KMG-MID had remained public, it would have prevented the possibility of speculative sales. In the debate, the Committee adopted proposals for an amendment to the Committee, adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u72	President, thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to all of you again! Secretary of State! The proposal for a new amendment to the Agriculture Act, which is subject to major changes, relates to the implementation of the common European and national agricultural policy. More specifically, it is determined who is the beneficiary of agricultural policy measures, the reporting of the state of the organic substance for the assessment of emissions and the removal of greenhouse gases from agriculture, monitoring of agricultural soil status and cultivation arrangements. Among other things, certain administrative procedures are being rescinded, provisions of payment deadlines for perishable food products are being laid down, and there is an increasing number of illegal practices in large food supplies. Provisions in the field of organic production and monitoring are also being coordinated with EU rules. The conditions for the innovation and discharge of the food guardian are also being complemented. In the case of a competition agency, additional tasks are introduced for employees accompanying the food chain. Additional powers are also given to the agricultural inspection which will be able to control the implementation of the Green Order novel in public food establishments. Certain agricultural records are also being introduced, notably the standard income of the agricultural holding, vegetable growers and vegetable producers, and data are being collected for plant genetic banks. The proposed law deleted the regulation on the sale of crops by road, and this area was to be regulated in the first amendment to the legislation governing the area of sale. In the SAB Group, we point out that we need a more consistent agricultural policy, which unfortunately we do not currently have. On the one hand, this subsidy system will also have to be taken care of at European level. These subsidies are large and also a lot of money is being collected, but farmers and other farmers are targeting products that bring more subsidies, not products that are market-seeking. If we looked at the results of how many subsidies were granted, we would see that the largest agricultural companies received the Grosses of these subsidies. On the other hand, there are climate change that happens to us almost daily and consequently extreme weather conditions that increase the likelihood of natural disasters, which are reflected in the quantity and quality of crops and livestock production. In recent years, much damage to Slovenian agriculture has been caused by drought, abundant rainfall, floods, storms with hail, wind, colds, snow, stomachs, which also condition diseases, pests. Climate change, which is deteriorating, requires an appropriate agricultural policy to do so and to seek answers to these changes. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Before us is the law, which is the central legal act in the field of agriculture and as such an important document for the Slovenian farmer. We are therefore considering today the amendment of the Agriculture Act prepared by the Government, which brings some improvements to farmers and includes the transposition of the European Directive on unfair trade practices between undertakings in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. The law therefore introduces changes relating to the implementation of the common European policy, and innovations and improvements are also promising in the national field. If we touch concrete solutions, the amendment specifies who is the beneficiary of agricultural policy measures, sets out how to report the state of the organic substance for agricultural emissions and greenhouse gas removals, and establishes monitoring of agricultural soil conditions and fertilisation arrangements. Any farmer will have to agree that samples may be taken on his land and that the residues of agricultural production and processing may be used for fertilisation. This is an important solution for olive farmers who have been alerting for years to the need to regulate the use of residues, i.e. olive oil for fertilisation or improvement of Mediterranean soil. In order to address this issue definitively, the Government will adopt a sub-legislative regulation by the end of this year at the latest. We further welcome the simplification of administrative procedures for the implementation of agricultural policy measures in the Desus Group. The new Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development is welcome to invite applicants to take an individual measure to supplement the application if it does not have taxes and contributions paid. To date, the role of those who had more than 50 Euros of tax debt has been automatically reversed. The law also regulates the provisions of payment deadlines for perishable food products, extends the range of illegal practices in the food supply chain, complements the conditions for the appointment and discharge of the food guardian. Additional tasks shall be introduced in the area of food chain monitoring in the Public Competition Agency. We were looking forward to this amendment of the law to arrange for the sale of crops on a road, but apparently a little early. During the coordination, the Ministry deleted this Article from the draft issue, which is somewhat broader and related to the Trade Act. The task of regulating this area therefore remains. Travelling stands which mislead consumers by the origin of goods are to the detriment of domestic producers and, of course, also customers. In this area, however, at least tighter controls are carried out following the Ministry's assurance. During the course of the examination on the home working body, the additions we supported in the Desus Group were adopted. We are pleased that the law has been harmonised to the extent that both the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Association of Slovenia and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia have expressed support on the working body. In the Desus Group, we agree with all the proposed solutions brought by the novel and we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u76	Nice greetings again to all present! Food prices have been rising in the sky in recent years, and farmers have been warning all this time that because of unfair competition and unfair practices in the chain from villas to forks, they do not have any of these. This is how farmers and consumers are harmed, and this has to be done slowly. Therefore, it is high time that we also protect farmers and consumers in Slovenia. That is exactly what the European Union Directive allows us to do. It is also high time that we finally clearly identify beneficiaries for agricultural policy measures, not only because of the need to implement agricultural policy in accordance with European Union rules, but also because we still do not have a clearly defined status as a farmer. As a result, farmers are deprived of a variety of subsidies both at national and European level. It would also make sense to define the status of family farms in the future and thus enable the pursuit of the objective of maintaining rural and rural settlement and processing. Cities are overcrowded and the countryside needs to become more inviting for young people. Changes in agriculture are essential if we really want to maintain stable production and processing of safe food, to ensure food security and to ensure that self-sustainment is as high as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues, colleagues, everyone, have a nice greeting! The fact is that the Agriculture Act is some kind of Bible in the field of agriculture for all those who engage in agriculture in such or other ways. We are therefore pleased that a law has been created, which is also the result of cooperation with the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Association and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. In short, those who make the most of this law have played an important role and have unanimously and unitedly supported the bill before us. This is a lot of important content, but allow me to mention on behalf of the SDS Group some of the most important to us. One of the important novelties of this law is monitoring the state of agricultural soil and prosecution. Unfortunately, this has not been settled so far, and there are many problems on the ground. We hope we can finally start to save them. We are also pleased in the SDS Group that administrative procedures for the implementation of agricultural policy measures are being simplified. In short, another law that follows demobilization in specific areas. We are also very pleased that we have been able to take certain steps towards the public procurement obligations, so that on the newly established obligation of the food contracting authority under the public procurement rules to take account of the proportion of organic food and food products in the quality schemes, the minimum share of organic food is 15%. We hope that all consumers and, above all, public institutions will follow these innovations of this law. We also find it very important in the SDS Group that there is an even greater emphasis on the traceability of individual foods and their products. In short, traceability, we've talked a lot about it, but we haven't done enough. We also find it very important to supplement illicit conduct, since the number of such practices extends from 23 to 27. We also support that the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia is given a new task to protect competition, in short, that we do not have another harmless tiger, but we have an authority to keep an eye on a large part of the agricultural tasks. It is also very important for us to harmonise the delivery of public services in the field of agriculture, including livestock farming, and to simplify the preparation of a public service programme. Last but not least, in the SDS Group, it is also very important that we regulate the area of organic farming, because the novelties relate to new products that can be used in organic farming, the control system, the catalogue of solutions and sanctions, new records and so on. Last but not least, which is also important for consumers, agricultural and food products and payment deadlines for fast-growing agricultural and food products are set at a maximum of 30 days, now 45 days, and for other agricultural products up to 60 days, now up to 90 days. In short, quick payment hands, as we say, from fairies to spoons. There are a lot of new changes in agriculture, and we are pleased that, together with all the stakeholders, we have been able to produce such an extensive and farmer-friendly law in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you, Chairman. The distinguished representative of the Ministry! We expect amendments to one of the roofing agricultural laws since 2020, when the contents of today's parliamentary treatment have been given public treatment. Since the Minister's announcement that the agricultural law will also contain urgent harmonisation with the European Union, there is not much left of the rules governing the definition of the agricultural economy and the operator of the agricultural economy. Certain content, so we were able to see assumptions in last year's draft, but this was obviously a very large amount of nuts that would need to be crushed in the near future. In view of the extensive changes to the law and the long-term adoption, the legislative and legal services could rightly expect a new law which would also include an interested public and stakeholders in the agreed amendment on the definition of a farmer or a farmer and an agricultural holding. Notwithstanding what has been said, some of the solutions in the draft law, which are in accordance with European Union rules, are recognised in the LMS as good. For example, we find it useful to determine the competence to monitor and report on the state of organic matter and nutrients in agricultural soils, which is necessary for the assessment of emissions and the assessment of greenhouse gases arising from activities relating to land use for agricultural production. The same applies to the monitoring of the state of manure, which has not been properly regulated to date, since balanced and particularly prudent fertilisation preserves the fertility of land and reduces negative impacts on the environment. We also welcome the progress made in the area of organic farming, particularly in the group certification of organic growers and enhanced control by precautionary and preventive measures, and in the labelling of organic products in order to reduce abuses. With regard to the question of the empowerment of the Ombudsman's role in the food supply chain, there is still room for progress, particularly in the exchange of unfair trade practices between companies in the supply chain with agricultural products. However, we are pleased to see further rules on the illegal behaviour of stakeholders and the functioning of the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Slovenia. Under the Green Public Procurement Regulation, the minimum share of the procurement of organic food is already defined. The news in the proposal is that the contracting authorities will have to report on this and the agricultural inspector will be entrusted with supervision. In practice, implementation of the regulation is still difficult and perhaps less effective as public institutions in certain areas of Slovenia simply cannot reach organic and locally produced food. Eco-farming to public institutions is often unable to produce enough quantities because production is not intensive and the problem is even more pressing outside the season. There is a great potential for different intermediaries of questionable organic products to appear on the tenders, which are not necessarily produced in Slovenia or even lost in large quantities. Speculative sales could certainly be reduced if the remaining KMG-MID identification number in the draft law were made public, as originally envisaged, and the contracting party or consumer would receive it from a farmer or a farmer. The number KMG-MID allows traceability of food production according to the principle of field-to-table production, which is already well established abroad, including based on data block chaining technology, better known under the name blockchain. So we can get food information by using the phone in the store. The withdrawal of the article is certainly not in line with the focus on digitisation, which we are so pleased to hear from government representatives. Modern practices, including in agriculture, are also useful for the traceability of the food we eat and the traceability of those who supply it. Ensuring competitiveness through thoughtful adaptation to digital trends in agriculture can also provide a great opportunity for better food, including for the development of rural tourism, to support a healthy environment and ultimately for the health of people and people of Slovenia. In the LMŠ proposal, we will not oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u82	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us today a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agriculture. The law, which was written at the competent Ministry, was considered necessary for amendments and additions to the implementation of the agricultural policy in accordance with European Union rules, as well as for the implementation of the national agricultural policy. Looking at the matter of marriage, we can see that it is a very extensive novelty and not just a few minor changes and additions. This was also pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service. In the Group of Social Democrats, we share their view that this is a very large novel through which you are struggling in a way that really deepens into every change and every addition. Perhaps it would not be bad if the drafters or the proposer decided on a new marriage. What changes, especially what solutions, do marriage material bring? The competent ministry has divided the solutions into 13 sets that coordinate some of the irregularities identified by the audit of the European Commission, until the arrangements for the management of databases and the establishment of new databases. Members and Members of the Social Democrats, we have combed the law well, and we find that some solutions are good, and unfortunately some solutions are such that we cannot support them. We welcome the arrangements for the transfer of payment entitlements in the event of a change in the holding of the agricultural holding and the solutions relating to monitoring the situation of agricultural soils and fertilisers. We certainly welcome the establishment of a mechanism for systematic monitoring of agricultural soils, but we cannot support the amendment that came with the proposed amendment, which regulates or changes the confidentiality of the KMG-MID data. We believe that it is particularly unacceptable that this information should no longer be made public. We do not accept the reasons for the proposed amendment in our parliamentary group because we believe that when KMG-MID remains public, we prevent the possibility of speculative sales of products sold by each farm or owner of KMG-MID. The proposed legislative changes that have been written down, as proposed by the Ministry, would be supported in our parliamentary group, but unfortunately, some changes have been made during the adoption and finalization of the matter, which keep the Social Democrats from going to law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! We can view the Agriculture Act and read it as an agricultural constitution, as it is a fundamental agricultural law that determines the consistency, neutrality and equality of agricultural policy measures. Measures and programmes implemented in different areas should be geared towards the same objectives of agricultural policy. The Agriculture Act has been amended and amended six times since 2012, and this amendment is also necessary for the implementation of agricultural policy in accordance with European Union rules and for the implementation of national agricultural policy. More specifically, it specifies who is the beneficiary of agricultural policy measures, complements areas such as the balance of organic substances and nutrients in agricultural soils, the status of agricultural soils and fertilisers, the simplification of administrative procedures for the implementation of agricultural policy and determines the functioning of the Food Supply Chain Relations Ombudsman and redefines illicit practices in the food supply chain. The law brings new developments relating to the control system, the catalogue of infringements and sanctions, new records, imports and preventive and precautionary measures to be taken by organic growers and processors. New organic products such as sea salt, game farming, rabbit farming, insects, wool and leather are added in the area of organic farming. In New Slovenia we stress that production, processing and distribution of safe food are of strategic importance for every society and have a great impact on the economy, environment and health of the population. This was demonstrated strongly at the time of the covida-19 epidemic when the supply of vegetables in the European Union was disrupted due to closed borders between countries. In the area of agriculture, it is important to be aware that the foundations of Slovenian agriculture have always been family farms. In New Slovenia we support the development and preservation of family farms and the transfer of knowledge, work habits, love of home land to young generations. Unfortunately, statistics show that agriculture in Slovenia is in poor condition, more and more outputs from organic farming and abandonment of agriculture in general. From the annual report on the state of agriculture, we can understand that in Slovenia it closes between a thousand and a thousand 500 farms annually. From the point of view of the treated landscape and the conservation of the countryside, this is an alarming information. It is true that the average size of the farm has increased in recent years. If the figure in 2012 was approximately 6.3 hectares, this figure today increased to 6.9 hectares. There are several reasons for closing and closing down farms in Slovenia. Of the most important are certainly increasing and complicated bureaucracy, various records, which are also duplicated, low buying-in prices of agricultural crops and high costs of raw materials and labour, and the lack of young entrepreneurs, as work on the farm is specific, the farm requires the whole person 24 hours a day. We are called upon to return to the farmer the respect and recognition for his efforts and the work he does for all of us and nature. Therefore, Members of the New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats – will be supported by the agricultural law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are deciding on a proposal for a new Law on Agriculture, which is quite extensive, and it addresses the challenges related to the functioning of individual institutions, the eligibility of operators for agricultural policy measures and coordinates the implementation of certain agricultural activities. The amendment complements areas covering the control of greenhouse gas emissions and establishes a system for checking the quality of agricultural soils. At present, the status of agricultural soils in our country is being monitored only on the basis of physical and chemical analyses carried out on soil samples taken by farmers themselves. However, such control is neither systematic nor ensures that the samples are covered properly. The proposed law builds on the existing way by setting up a structure in the agricultural soil monitoring system and establishing a centre from which data can be collected and managed in an efficient and transparent manner. The drafters of the amendment seek, inter alia, to simplify administrative procedures in the implementation of agricultural policy. To this end, the proposed legal basis is to reduce administrative barriers, which mainly include proof of eligibility in cases where someone is entitled to the funds from agricultural policy measures. Therefore, the necessary data will be searched and verified by the Agency itself and farmers will have fewer problems with bureaucratic processes and will be able to focus on their primary mission. In doing so, it is irrelevant that these data will not be able to be obtained from the Agency by the other institutions, since this protects the legitimate interests of Slovenian producers. Furthermore, this novel provides for the establishment of some new records, records of the standard income of agricultural holdings, records of vegetable and vegetable producers and records of the plant genetic bank. We believe in SMC that a systematic approach to agriculture in Slovenia needs to be deepened. We will provide a good record-keeping system for a review that will allow us to target agricultural policy measures more effectively in those areas that they will really need. The proposal also amends the conditions under which certain public services may be carried out and complements the area of agricultural inspection accordingly. Members of the SMC welcome the efforts made to prepare such a large novelty of law. We are convinced that measures aimed at a higher level of coordination in Slovenian agriculture are welcome. We must all work together to improve the efficiency of the funds we allocate through agricultural policy to Slovenian farmers. At the same time, we must allow farmers to concentrate on their basic mission, which is of paramount importance to our society. We will therefore support the proposal of this new law in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill amending the Act on Social Security Contributions in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec. The bill is at the 35th session of the 22nd session. 6. 2021 was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Compulsory pension and disability insurance is the basis of the social state. The rights arising from it shall be financed from the contributions paid by individuals and from the expenditure of the State budget. According to the Constitution, the State is obliged to take care of the functioning of the pension and disability insurance system and to act with constant but not excessive changes. This is particularly due to the dynamics in social relations where the functioning of the system is threatened by income and expenditure imbalances. In 1996, the Government decided to significantly reduce the contribution rates for pension and disability insurance, the employer's contribution halved. It decreased from 15.5% to 8.85%, while the burden of the employee remained at the same level. The aim was to accelerate economic growth by increasing economic activity, in particular by stepping up the investment activity of companies. The measure also had a marked negative impact, a sharp increase in the liability of the pension fund. Thus, from 1996 to 2000, deficits were created and accumulated. Under the Financial Regulations of the Law on Public Finance and the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets for each year, pension funds were forced between 1996 and 2000 to borrow loans in order to enable them to pay pensions and other entitlements in a smooth manner. In 2001, the capital company's obligation to co-finance the pension fund from its business outcome followed, as well as an important reform novelty. The State budget has assumed the obligation to ensure a stable financial operation of the pension fund by financing the difference between the original revenues of the system and the total expenditure to finance all legal obligations. Such a reduction in labour costs was justified by a new burden on the economy with a tax on paid wages. The revenue of the State budget from the pay tax was highest in 2004 and 2005, 7,5 % of the total budget revenue, 472 million in 2004 and 506 million in 2005. The country gave up this source of revenue in 2009 in the interest of promoting the economic dynamics and competitiveness of Slovenian companies. If this tax type were maintained, it would have an impact on the whole series of macroeconomic aggregates and it is not possible to assess today how much damage this has caused. But clearly there's something else. At the expense of reducing contributions to employers, more than EUR 20 billion was lost, given 2020. This must have been reflected in the amount of pensions. Both pension reforms, on the one hand, increased pension conditions and, on the other hand, reduced the standard of rights previously paid and earned. Opponents of the gradual rise in the rate of contribution of employers refer mainly to the data and the resulting references of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD. There, they say that the tax burden of working in Slovenia is relatively high in social security contributions and relatively low in income, but in the legislative procedure there are extensive changes in income legislation that will reduce these burdens. In doing so, it is important to know that we, citizens and citizens of Slovenia, will ultimately be paying for our pension and social system, not bureaucrats from the white world. The regulation of labour-capital relations is the core area of each development vision. Each of these two economic categories is inevitably involved in any reform of tax legislation and solutions are not simple, as is evident in our particular case. Budget revenues are far too low to meet the needs in all state subsystems. Change for the better may be possible, but we will not achieve it until it comes from the belief that the only important processes in society are the economic processes managed by capital and that the power of politicians is generated only by how much capital is raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again! The competitiveness of the business environment is an important factor that also affects pensions in the final phase. The high tax burden and social security contributions are the most common cause of creation and also the booming of the grey economy in Slovenia. Reducing the burden on employers is also the most effective measure in the fight against the grey economy. The more burden the employer has on them, the more they will try to overcome these burdens. It is true that in the following year, employers' contributions would increase by 126 million euros, but more later, but the applicant does not want to understand that such a measure has two salaries. On the other hand, the measure is like a two-sword, a severe blow to the economy, employment and, in the long run, even a reduction in contributions. We all agree that Slovenian pensioners need to be taken care of because they deserve a decent life, but it is not the right mechanism to burden the economy in such a way that it will lead to even greater deficits in the budget in the long term. With a less burdened economy, it would increase the number of compulsory insurances involved and thereby increase the contributions collected. Contributions must be transferred through a much more meaningful and productive mechanism to pensioners, as foreseen in the White Paper on Pensions. The Slovenian national party always advocates the welfare of Slovenian pensioners and will also take up the future. It should be pointed out, however, that such misleading is only an intervention in the economy and is intended only for the likeness and for the generation of future voices. As a result, we cannot support such proposals in our party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. The party Levica has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a law on social security contributions seeking to raise the employer's contribution to pension and disability insurance from the current 8.85% to 12.05%. In Levi, for they have always estimated that wages are undertaxed. Is that true? According to OECD data, the average gross wage was taxed at 42.9% tax burden and the average in the OECD countries was 34.6% last year. Belgium has a maximum labour tax of 51.5% and only 7% have the lowest labour tax in Chile. In Europe, Switzerland has the lowest labour tax of 22.1% and in the European Union, Ireland has 32.3%. In Slovenia, it is not only a problem of high taxation of average wages, the problem of taxation is mainly progression, which means higher than wages, higher percentage of tax paid, which consequently means high tax burden on the salaries of the development staff, which is of course problematic for the development of the country. However, developments are taking place in this area. In recent years, the Christmas house has been unloaded, the regression has been strained to the average wage, the smallness has increased overall relief and the threshold for entry into higher tax grades at income. However, we can look forward to a major change through the new tax reform that we already have in the National Assembly, which raises general relief to €7 000,500, reduces the maximum tax rate from 50% to 45%, and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always advocated a lower tax burden on work, as we are aware that citizens will spend more money on goods and services, and the country will be remunerated in cash, only through other taxes. At the same time, of course, we are significantly improving the quality of life of citizens. The proposal of the Left, which amounts to an increase in taxes, was therefore not supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u94	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Nice greeting also to representatives of the Slovenian Government and others present! In August 2018, the five presidents of the parliamentary parties signed a coalition contract, which was signed by the parties Lista Marjan Šarca, Social Democrats, Modern Centre Parties, Alenka Bratušek Party, Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. On the eighth page, under Chapter Right, solidarity and financial sustainability of the pension system and the provision of safe age, there is also a line around which we have agreed. It reads: "In order to bring the burden on employers and employees closer gradually, we will raise the contribution rates for employers' pension insurance by the end of our term of office at the level of 0.8% of the raise for employers per year." So, just like the law is before us. Therefore, we regret little by little for the Social Democrats that the proposal did not come to all those who have signed this undertaking, even to help them fulfill their promise themselves. If we add up the signatories to this coalition agreement: LMŠ 14 votes, Social Democrats 12, SMC then slightly more, now 5, SAB 5, Desus 4 is already 40 votes, because members of the unrelated Members are also of the signatories, the additional 4 votes are 44, and when we add the party Levits, it is 52. So a sufficient quorum that the law should be adopted. And in a country that has something to do with democratic values and respect for citizens and citizens, today would not have a kind of funeral ceremony around this law, but would have passed the law, because 52 votes are enough for Members and Members of Parliament to have the law passed. And then the Slovenian weirdo and the kind of policy we don't want, the people whose customers have signed with them in agreement and consultation, vote differently. And today we have a good-bye to this marriage. Why is that bad? We are one of the few countries where the employer's contribution to secure, stable, solidarity pensions is lower than the contribution of workers. That's wrong. What they decided in 1996 was wrong. Even if then the salary tax was simply abolished, it was wrong. That is why we are actually collecting too little money, and we owe it to pensioners and pensioners to provide stable pensions, pension growth and pensions that are appropriate. If we don't finance it, what's left? There's something we don't want left, it's a supplementary health insurance. I'll tell you right away why we don't want to. Because complementaryly it is not a solidarity and complementary work of difference. People who have a low salary actually find it difficult to afford supplementary pension insurance, while people who have a high salary afford it. So there's no more solidarity. That's not the source. Second. To secure the missing money through the demographic fund – I could say a kind word, but I will do it — is a lie. We won't, there's not enough money there and it's dedicated to everything else. Therefore, the correction of the error of 0.8 percentage points per year is the only possible route. That is why we support this idea, as in August 2018, even in 2021 Social Democrats. I hope next time we'll file a bill with 52 signatures. We must ask each Member and each Member whether the August 2018 word also applies in 2021. I'm pretty sure when we ask that a few months before the elections, they won't have a place to hide. We will ask whether your signature is valid, a few months before the elections, they will become afraid, and there is a real possibility that the next time we put together, we will put in 52 votes and this law, which is urgently needed, will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. The social picture of Slovenian pensioners is devastating. We have 42% of pension recipients who go from less than 600 euros a year, it is said that almost one half of pensioners live below the poverty risk threshold. Why? Because the pension fund is horribly fed. In the past year, it has therefore received as much as €1.15 billion of heavy transfers from the state budget to the pension fund in order to cover all the liabilities of the State to the pensioners and to pay the pension normally. The original sin, because pension registers such a deficit, can be found in 1996 when the contribution rate for employers has practically halved and went from 15.5% to 8.85%. In the meantime, the contribution rate for workers remained the same and the pension register, which had previously shown surpluses, began to record losses at once and took over the budget with the money of all citizens and citizens. And why? We have not received the promised boom of the economy, which is supposed to come due to the payment or the taxation of wages. Billions of them ran into the tax havens, as it were said, but in the pension box, they found a hole. To change this and to put solidarity in the pension system again in the first place, we agreed in Levica that, in the next four years, the contribution rates for employers would rise by 0.8 percentage points per year, which would amount to EUR 560 million of additional annual income for the pension allowance in a four-year period. That's a lot of money. This is half of this state transfer, which I mentioned earlier, is also the number, as far as Slovenia is lagging behind after investments in the public health system, when compared with the most developed countries. The effect on the private sector in the cumulation would in fact be negligible regardless of how we can listen to the debates and positions so that Levica can again destroy the economies. Don't hold it. All it would be is that net profit would be reduced by 9,7 % after the end of this four-year period. So we wouldn't burden the economy, we'd burden the profits. According to the latest figures, this was €4.6 billion in 2019, and in years before that it was rising violently, and we can expect the same in the future. Only between 2015 and 2018 did this profit rise by 99%, it is said to have practically doubled. But for the fair contribution rates that would cover the pensions of Slovenian pensioners, which is suddenly not political will, the black majority of the votes in the National Assembly in 2018 signed a coalition contract that listed exactly the measure that we are proposing in Levica today. Obviously, the pre-election promises in this country are not valid. If we are to form the next government with different steering and other directions, such as the current government of Janez Janša, we must be aware that we can only do this if the promises to citizens and citizens, our commitments, political commitments to people in this country are restored to the meaning they have lost 20 years ago. The promises to people need to be kept, especially I place this in my heart to all those who are aware of the severe hardships that people have experienced in this country in the covid-19 epidemic and the repression of the government of Janez Janša. These people need to be helped, not by one-off actions, but by redefined Slovenia as a social state and by ensuring a fair transfer of wealth in society. An increase in contributions to employers to fill a pension fund that would allow the lowest pensions to rise with these additional inflows is certainly the first of the sets of priorities to be taken into account by the next government if no votes are found at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. The Left has introduced a new Law on Social Security Contributions into the legislative process, which would bring a significant increase in the burden of work with contributions by increasing the rate of contribution for employers. The first-signed Luke Mesec proposal would gradually increase the employers’ contribution rate by 2025 from 8,85 % to 12,05 %, i.e. an increase of 3,2 percentage points or 36 %. According to the evaluation of the applicants, this burden would increase by almost €140 million in 2022 alone, and the annual burden would increase by more than €550 million by 2025. This is a proposal aimed directly at the creativity and engagement of Slovenian entrepreneurs and their employees. Moreover, all comparative analyses show that Slovenia should go in the direction of reducing the burden of work with taxes and contributions and not in the direction of increasing this burden. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance on Tuesday 22 June 2021. At the meeting, a member of the Committee and the Head of the New Slovenia Group, Jožef Horvat expressed a clear and decisive opposition to the proposal of the Law of the Left and said, among other things: “With the proposed measure of raising the contribution rates for employers, all efforts from previous years to gradually reduce the tax burden of work, such as reducing the progressiveness of the income scale, increasing and correcting the system of additional general relief, a specific scheme for unloading the most productive and creative staff, and a cross-border performance scheme aimed at transferring knowledge and experience.” While the full tax burden on work is borne by the government tax reform which has already been introduced into the parliamentary legislative procedure. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we are pleased that the Finance Committee has rejected the above-mentioned Act on Social Security Contributions proposed by Levica, so the National Assembly will not vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u100	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Fellow Members! The marriage novel follows two key objectives, improving the standard of pensioners and increasing the scope of public funds available for social and development purposes. According to the applicant, these objectives would be achieved if they gradually increased the employer contribution rate for pension and disability insurance by raising the current 8.85% to 12.05%. This would raise pensions and reduce the expenditure of the budget, which today is waving the financial hole of the pension fund. More resources would remain in the state budget to improve the health system and Slovenia would have such a social right to envy even Scandinavian countries. In short, if we follow the proposaler's promotion, we can peacefully conclude that Slovenia will become a new eldorado by adopting a higher rate of contribution to pension insurance. How could anyone possibly object to this because it sounds like a fairy tale? And yes, unfortunately, it's just a fairy tale that I believe most citizens won't fall for. Finally, this proposal is opposed even by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. This opinion is that such reckless unilateral intervention by the pension fund would be detrimental. The fact is, our pension system is unendurable due to demographic changes. But it's not just us, it's most countries. We're not gonna solve this with a magic wand, ad hoc, reckless. We are not saying that root intervention in the pension system is not necessary. On the contrary, it must not be affected unilaterally, without social dialogue, broad debate and assessment of the impact on other social rights systems. Before further intervention into the system, we must first analyse the existing system, both in terms of funding and in terms of establishing the conditions for the recognition of rights and their height from pension and disability insurance. On this occasion, let me remind you of a not so distant past. Such a similar action by the same proposer has also been seen in blackmailing the abolition of supplementary health insurance without building on systemic reform, well-thought-outs and analyses. And where did that get us? This has led us to the change of the Prime Minister, whose past policies and feelings for the state budget have resulted in more than 26,000 pensioners receiving a good 25% reduction in their pension in 2012. This was the only time that pensions were reduced with the assistance of Desus in this country. It is undeniable that pensioners have paid dearly for the crisis that has passed for almost 10 years. And not only by unconstitutional interference with the amount of some pensions, but also by the austerity measures they had to take on their shoulders. Our main concern today is how to preserve existing pension rights. The fact is, the government of Janez Janša opened the pockets of the Treasury. We have received a false feeling that the bag of public money has no bottom, but those responsible for the state budget are aware that this false sense of public finances has far-reaching consequences. And that means we're not far from history repeating itself. This government has entrusted us in a bad year and a half on record. Public debt exceeded 86% of gross domestic product. The increase in public debt has an impact on the sustainability of public finances and on the stability of the pension system, so today, at a time when the health crisis is still going on, we need to devote energy in particular to preserving existing rights, as this government is taking us back to bankruptcy. There is no doubt that we are passionately committed to raising pensions and generally improving the status of the elderly in all aspects of their lives. But in doing so, we remain real and honest with those for whose rights we fight. And today this is the biggest problem of today’s policy — unfulfilled promises that undermine trust in the system, in values, in an individual. The Chinese proverb says much: When there is trust, you need no evidence when there is no trust, no proof can hold. In the SAB Group, we did not support the novels of the Law of Empty Promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 34. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on corporate income tax within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Branet Golubovic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law, which is under discussion, amends and complements the Law on corporate income tax, which was adopted in the framework of the 2006 tax reform. Amendments and amendments to the law may be divided into two parts according to content and objectives. Some of the solutions in the bill are necessary to fulfil commitments to respect and transpose EU law into Slovenian legislation, while other amendments and additions represent measures to reduce the consequences of the health and economic crisis in order to create a more conducive business environment, including clear and friendly administrative rules. The proposed measures support other policies, particularly employment policies and environmental policies. Based on these purposes and objectives, the proposal for a law takes into account the EU guidelines on defence tax measures and the EU list of jurisdictions which are not prepared to participate for tax purposes. There is also an article in the directive on anti-tax avoidance rules, for which the time limit for transposition is 31 12. 2021. The bill introduces a new facilitation to promote green and digital transitions and builds up employment facilitation. Beneficiaries will be able to apply the benefits if they employ young people under 29 years of age, persons with a job for which there is not enough staff on the market and those who enter employment for the first time, and if they invest in a green and digital transition. The draft law also lays down powers for sub-legislative acts in order to facilitate the implementation of those provisions. There is an increase in the relief for donations from 0,3 % to 1% of the tax revenue and is expanding in the novel with sports purposes. A higher facilitation is proposed to carry out practical work in vocational education. The proposed tax base measures constitute a more favourable and easier recognition of tax expenditure. Claims declared in the enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings will be better recognised. There is a clearer provision for the recognition of reservations expenditure. A special, more favourable arrangement is proposed for pension reservations, retirement pensions and reservations for jubilee awards in the coming period up to and including 2026. The expansion of incentives and the proposed more favourable definition of the tax base amount to around €27 million per year in the lower revenue of the state budget for corporate income tax. It should be borne in mind that it is difficult to assess the financial effects of certain provisions, in particular those referring to harmful tax measures and practices. In view of the above, the Government proposes the adoption of a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much, chairman. Nice greeting again to everyone here in the hall! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that harmful tax practices, such as erosion of tax bases, business through tax havens and similar, should be strictly condemned. The economy and the free business initiative are very important for the progress of the country, but only to where it is in the interest of the people. When capital begins to exploit the state and nation in a desire to profit, it is certainly necessary to intervene in the neoliberal system with the aim of the welfare of society. International global corporations exploit so-called holes or inconsistencies between different tax systems of countries. With the so-called erosion of the tax base in the home country and the movement of profits subject to taxation, such corporations exploit countries and nations. Certain countries, particularly smaller ones, are often exploited because of such practices, and it is therefore very important that such a nation is treated with a strong hand by harmful corporations. Globally, such immoral greed costs the country between $100 billion and $240 billion of lost income annually. Due to the different tax rules of countries, global capital seeks to find double taxation or less than single taxation. In this way, the total wage tax in countries is lower than in one country. Capital companies redirect profits beyond the jurisdiction of the State, such as Slovenia, where companies operate and generate these profits. However, they are redirected to locations where society does not actually create anything with its business, but only benefit from favourable taxation. The problem is also that this is not even a form of tax evasion, since, despite immorality, such practice is normally in accordance with the law. However, since the fact that something is legal does not yet mean that it is moral, it is necessary here in the name of the welfare of the people to condemn it harshly. Since global business is taking place in today's world, cooperation by countries is needed to prevent such pests from exploiting practices and to restore confidence in domestic tax systems. The list of countries where the overall or average nominal rate of company profit tax is below 12,5 % is an important step in the fight against such practices. In the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly support the laws that address such a problem, but we believe that in the future we should take such a practice with an even stronger hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons represents one of the three laws in the field of tax amendments received by the Government in the National Assembly. The main solutions to the proposal of the Law on corporate income tax are as follows. The basis for determining the list of countries which, from the point of view of fair taxation, pose a risk of abuse is being upgraded. Slovenian legislation will thus transpose the provisions of the European Directive against tax avoidance practices, thus helping to achieve more equitable taxation. A new aid is being introduced to invest in the green transition and to invest in digitisation of 40% of the amount invested. It is about investing in cloud computing, investing in artificial intelligence, environmentally friendly technologies, cleaner public and private transport, and energy efficiency of buildings. There are incentives for donations from 0,3 % to 1 % of the revenue, which means that the debtor can apply a 1 % tax revenue relief to the taxable period of the debtor. The scope of relief is also growing, which means that a higher amount of relief can be used for cultural purposes and for protection against natural and other disasters, even for sport purposes. Facilitating the employment of young, elderly and disadvantaged professions are in place. We are talking about the employment of persons under 29 years of age and over 55 years of age and the employment of persons with a profession for whom there is insufficient staff in the labour market in view of the needs of employers. The amount of relief in the case of employment of such a person shall be set at 45 %. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we really welcome the intention that the areas of the deficit professions should also be addressed through facilitations, as we have been pointing to this issue for a long time. The reasons why we have a large number of deficient professions are mainly in the wrong educational policy and, of course, also in the changing structure of the economy in the world and as a result, in us. On the other hand, youth employment benefits will help young people to get a job in Slovenia and thus stay in Slovenia. There are also incentives for practical work in education from the current 20% to 80%. It is intended for companies that accept apprentices, students or students under the apprenticeship contract to carry out practical teaching work in vocational education, which is of utmost importance for the professional skills of students or students and also for the economy, as the interest in practical learning will increase and, as a result, will lead to better quality of staff and will make it easier for young people to get to first employment. The recognised expenditure shall be increased for the costs of the representative and for the costs of the Supervisory Board or the supervisory authority. This is a partially recognised expenditure which is raised from 50% to 60%. A transitional period shall be introduced to better take account of the tax expenditure on the provision of pensions, pensions and jubilee awards. This is a transitional provision applicable for a period of five years. The proposal for a law on corporate income tax provides for more transparent and fairer taxation, which is crucial for further incentives for economic recovery following the covida-19 epidemic. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law on corporate tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! At the May meeting, the coalition proposed that all three tax reform laws should be dealt with on an urgent basis, but the proposal did not receive a sufficient majority. The reason for the emergency procedure should be that, in the event of the late adoption of the bill, there could be difficult remedial consequences for the country. However, after all calculations and after reading the Fiscal Council's opinion on the effects of tax reform, the LMŠ Group can peacefully argue that the adoption of the tax reform itself would have grave consequences for the country. In the LMŠ, we advocate a package of treatment of tax reforms, which is why the rest of the opposition called for a general debate on all three draft laws, as we are convinced that a broader social dialogue must be present for such profound interventions into existing social relations. The government didn't do it. Moreover, the proposal to amend tax legislation did not come to the table of the Economic and Social Council at all. Let's see what the coalition would do without a wider debate. The fiscal council assesses the fiscal impact of the proposed tax changes only in 2022 on between €335 million and €450 million. I quote: “Because the government does nothing at the revenue level, tax reform poses an additional risk to the sustainability of public finances over the medium term.” Allow me another quote: "Because of the proposed tax changes, the country's debt is expected to increase cumulatively by 4 to 14 percentage points of gross domestic product." End of story. So the government of Janez Janša wants to raise the debt that much, no matter how much we're under it by 25. 3. 2021 committed EUR 8.14 billion to a new net. In the budget, the government would, according to the calculations of the Fiscal Council in the following year, turn a hole of EUR 450 million deep. And what is bizarre is the fact that a few days ago, when the last anti-Korona package was adopted, PKP9, the government did not find the means to encourage businesses that were closed by decree. Minister Restoration has justified this fact by saying that it is necessary to take care of public financial sustainability. If we look a few more years. Only with income interventions will there be a 2 billion financial hole in the budget within four years. In order to compensate for such a budgetary shortfall, I ask the representatives of the Government and the representatives of the Ministry. We do not believe in the LMŠ in the story that all of this will come back through consumption. Let me point out once again that even the fiscal world doesn't believe in this. Let us add to this the idea of introducing a social cap that would annually impoverish the pension and health allowance for between €115 million and €165 million. The assessment of the impact on all four public cash registers should be made by each individual. It is also clear that such behaviour is reckless that you have not presented any calculations in the context of tax reform, how much higher economic growth you expect, or how much higher consumption you expect as a result of the proposed changes. And as the Fiscal Council reminds us, you have not presented any additional measures to replace the budget deficit. In the letter of Marjan Šarca, we view experts at the Ministry of Finance with a certain degree of respect. In 2019, we were helped to save a quarter of a billion euros, and the treasure industry has been operating in a standard way for years. However, we are asked by the current government whether it is possible that someone who has reoccupied a political function should be re-learned from the start. The money you have in your possession is, in fact, the money of all of us. We will not take part in the LMŠ in such reckless actions, so we will vote against the proposed tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u110	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members, the rest of you present, welcome again today! Much of the explanation of the law is intended to summarise the European directives which bind us to a related system of corporate taxation. Let us say immediately at the outset that Slovenia has transposed a large majority of all the provisions of the amended European directives in this area into its laws since the previous government. The former governments. In fact, the content involved would require only minimal legal action, which would also impose taxation on so-called hybrid persons in Slovenia. The very purpose of this bill is to enable the Minister of Finance to withdraw from the list of tax havens a number of countries with low tax rates, facilitations and lax controls to enable corporations to massively tax evasion. The adoption of this law would provide the Minister of Finance with a direct legal basis to withdraw from the Slovenian list of tax havens all the 19 countries currently in it. Thus, a short list of countries treated by the Republic of Slovenia as tax havens would be reduced from 26 to only 12 in the jurisdiction considered by the European Union to be those not willing to participate for tax purposes. Among them, there will be no more Bahamas, Barbados, Brunei, Liechtenstein, Maldives and some Caribbean islands that may not be known to the general public, but are very well known by those who transport through them, avoid taxation and hide the origin of their assets. As if this were not enough, the proposal for a law is already greatly expanding a fairly wide range of possible reliefs, which in practice reduces the corporate tax rate well below a generally defined rate of 19 % of that tax. According to the material, after the introduction of the incentives, Slovenian companies pay a real tax on the income of legal persons of an average amount of 13.5%. In 2019 a little over 106 thousand Slovenian taxpayers paid slightly over €906 million. When deciding on taxes, it is important to take into account both the current burden on the taxpayers and the current circumstances, for example, that we need to recover after the epidemic, as well as the need for the country to collect enough taxes to be able to respond to all human needs. This has also been taught by the viral pandemic — the country needs resources to finance everything that people expect of it. The only ones who do not understand this lesson are the Slovenian government and its shadow advisors. At a time when the whole world notes that general corporate taxation is too low and needs to be raised, it is necessary to expand the lists of countries that apply to tax havens and allow tax avoidance, the Slovenian Government proposes a completely opposite direction – a reduction in the tax oasis list and additional reliefs that will already reduce the relatively low tax and budget revenues further. It should be said that overall taxation in Slovenia is indeed slightly higher than global or even European averages, but this does not apply to the taxation of legal persons, capital income or property. For all these categories of taxes, we are already considerably behind averages, and in particular for countries with which we would like to compare. Although different calculations vary according to methodology, all of us are based on international comparisons in a group of countries where corporate taxation is among the smaller ones. However, any additional facilitation of this proposal of the law constitutes a further reduction of this tax without ensuring that it will bring the promised benefits. Many of the new or increased reliefs thus also provide an opportunity for the non-transparent reduction of tax bases and additional tax evasion where capital does not contribute to its share, and the price is paid by people through higher taxes or through the cutting of state services. Ladies and gentlemen, efforts to reach an international agreement on the minimum rate of corporate income tax are also being strengthened during the post-pandemic recovery period. While the new US President is at the forefront of this effort, the coalition of support countries is extremely broad this time. The aim is to ensure a minimum global level of corporate income tax of at least 15% and to pay the tax where the turnover takes place. This would at least partially ease the mass avoidance of taxes, which today is through tax havens or global big corporations, even though it will be the smallest common denominator. It is sad to see that this agreement is being broken by just some European countries. First of all, there are those who today have the very benefit of doing separate business with individual corporations, such as Ireland. If our country takes part in such efforts, this is not good, especially if it chooses a subtle way and disguises tax gifts for businesses as new reliefs for non-transparent purposes, which are supposed to be somehow linked to recovery after shock. It is relevant that the tax rate below 12,5 % in the world and under the applicable rules is considered to be too low. This is the tax rate at which other countries start to include them in so-called blacklists, to deal with them with greater attention and to charge tax revenues to entities operating with such countries. The effective amount of this tax in Slovenia was 13.5% according to data from this legal material in 2019. So only one percentage point above the tax oasis border. In the event of the implementation of all the proposed facilitations, we will be approaching this border very soon. Slovenia, which needs more resources for the needs of its people, is expected to reduce taxes where they are already comparatively lower in a world that strengthens the control of tax evasion and higher corporate tax burdens, as proposed by this government. While other countries are disseminating lists of tax havens, the response of the Slovenian Government, the Finance Minister and its shadow advisors is that some countries cease to be tax havens. While other countries are trying to reach a global agreement on unitary corporate taxation, Slovenia is trying to reach those countries that wish to devalue this agreement quietly. While the circle around the tax lines, the Slovenian Government is kicking itself into this circle. The reference to the need to transpose the directive and the government requirement for an emergency procedure this time did not fool the majority in the College of the President of the National Assembly, the urgent procedure did not receive support, and the democratic opposition succeeded in demanding that we discuss the proposal at this meeting. For we must report that such solutions are inappropriate and unnecessary, inadequate for the time we are in, are a step in the wrong direction. Administrative simplifications would have been welcome, but unfortunately we did not see them in the text of the proposal. Let me say it again. Adapting to European directives is just camouflage. At a time when others raise taxes, right - hand people want to lower them. At a time when more and more countries are being treated as tax havens, our people on the right want to avoid this. All at the expense of the state, citizens and citizens. That is why we strongly oppose such a direction by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. The daily part of Parliamentary Dictionnaire is to discuss such or other solutions, as enshrined in laws, initiatives, recommendations, which fall into the National Assembly once again by parliamentary groups, coalition groups or opposition, once again by the Government. Well, under Janez Janša’s rule, we can talk a little bit about solutions, but rather about the problems that our crazy laws cause or intend to cause in this country. Tax reform, the package of laws is definitely one of them. We can constantly listen to how there is no money when it comes to initiatives to benefit the social state and to help people, not under this government, not under the previous government, not under any previous government. When we want to invest in health care, there is no money when we want to support the social system, there is no money when we want to build green transition instead of railway roads, even then there is no money. And excuses accumulate, always one and the same. Once again, this is a lack of social dialogue, although we are not responsible for it at all, the second is for measures that are not supposed to be systemic, and if this is a claim that actually persists or does not last, once again our proposals, in particular for the initiatives of the Left, put too much pressure on the state budget and should be inadequate from the point of view of public finances. But watch out! But when we get to the purchase of weapons that we really don't need in this country, it's 780 million euros, and then it's all of a sudden money. And when we get the extra tax gifts for the richest, that's when all of a sudden there's money in the country. The package of tax laws, as sent to the parliamentary procedure by the government of Janez Janša, is an example of this. This overall tax package is extremely harmful because the reform will increase income and property inequality without any positive, tangible consequences for people. First in line is the proposal for a law on debarcation, which introduces an anti-social cap for gross salaries over €600. The government wants this action to ensure that the percentage of the best paid in the country, when we talk about absolute numbers, is about 13,000 of the largest wealthy, public health and pension contributions at lower rates than workers at minimum wages. In addition, the Government in the new Income Law proposes additional tax exemptions, of which, of course, will once again benefit the richest. They propose a reduction in the level of the highest income class from 50% to 45%, which will serve exclusively to raise the net wages of the very narrow people. We're not even talking about the 13,000 richest people in the country. We're talking about 4,000,300 of the richest people in this country. That's 4,000 300 names and last names with the highest wages. In general, these will have the greatest benefit from raising income relief and also from all other anti-social measures together. The overall relief will rise to EUR 4 000 500 next year and will gradually increase to EUR 7 000 500 by 2024. The worst paid workers who earn less than €850 a month will not receive a cent. For someone who works for a thousand 200 euros, the rise in the overall net salary relief will raise by 53 euros in three years, but the manager with 10,000 euros of gross wages can hope to raise by 167 euros. Taking into account the reduction in the rate of the highest income class and the anti-social cap that they will not bring to the worker again, not even a cent, the net monthly salary will rise to EUR 2 000 316 for the manager. If we put all these measures together, we see very quickly that ordinary people, the workers will not get anything from them. They'll be on the worse line. Why? Because all these tax burdens on the rich and capital will plunge a poor billion euros into the social budget each year. The positive effects on the economy that the Government promises on this type of taxation of rich people will not bring about what government propagandists say are never in any country in the world. We know this, we know it from practice, we also know it from economic theory. Any tax burdens are translated into very short-term positive effects, while the damage caused by the collapse of the social state is long-term and difficult to repair. We had a case like this with us. The drastic tax cuts between 2005 and 2007, which affected the then Janša government, caused the budget to lose about a billion euros a year. Let us remember what happened after 2008 – costly debt, destructive austerity measures, declining economic growth. It is said that the billion-dollar tax relief account was last paid to the richest people, the most contributed by those who have the least, the biggest poor, because they also benefit the most from the capacity of the social state. All of this has been translated not into a boom in the economy, but into its devastation because of the lack of aggregate demand, which should be replaced by the country, especially during the crisis, only when private demand falls. These are crazy economic policies. In these crazy economic policies, we can also consider the amendment of the Law on corporate income tax, which forms part of this anti-social tax package. In Levica, of course, we strongly oppose this novel, lowering taxes on private capital. Private capital is already so heavily undertaxed in this country, apparently still too much for the government of Janez Janša, with a novelty with tax reliefs for private companies from the social state budget, they would take an additional EUR 30 million per year. In doing so, in Slovenia the profit tax has been declining for decades. In 1991, the overall rate of profit tax was 40% and then dropped to 25% in 1996, but today it is still a pooling 19%, well below the average of the OECD countries, which was set at 23.6% last year. Taxation never leads to development and prosperity, as the Slovenian right hand promises today. On the contrary, the rate of profit tax in the developed countries is above average and in the underdeveloped countries it is above average. Examples: profit tax in France 32 %, Germany 29.9 %, Belgium, Austria and the Netherlands 25 %. Of the 40 OECD countries only have lower rates of profit tax from Slovenia in two less developed countries, Hungary with a 9% rate and Lithuania with a 15% rate, and, of course, in the tax oasis of Ireland with 12,5%. Is that what we want? Is this our development model to follow in Slovenia? Instead of the German or Scandinavian development model, which we are so keen to look at, refer to, and set an example, the country is turning under the government of Janez Janša into a Hungarian pasaluk to follow – because I don't even know what to say – a Bulgarian development model, a Hungarian development model, a development that is really a development of underdevelopment. Although in Slovenia we have a 19% overall rate of profit tax, this does not mean that companies actually pay the tax at a 19% rate. They can benefit from a number of tax reliefs, with which these 19 % are added to each other. The effective rate of profit tax — and this is indeed to be seen — is significantly lower than the general rate. In 2018, this effective rate of profit tax was only 12,9 %. In translation: with such an effective tax rate, Slovenia flirts with tax havens. And every time Janša's government comes into power, by lowering taxes on private capital, giving new millions, the country is still approaching the tax haven and new income gaps are being planted in social programs. In 2006, the first Janšev government introduced a gradual reduction in the general rate of profit tax from 25 % to 20 %, while in 2012 the second Janšev government introduced an extremely generous tax relief policy and allowed companies to reduce their tax base when investing in investment or research and development and thereby avoid paying the tax in full. How many of these investments or research are actually investments and research and not just some packaged costs, this is an open question, what is the answer, and you can imagine. In all this history of taxation, the unfair taxation of companies that have harmed the social state has, after all, damaged the economic situation of the country, and the government is now introducing new tax exemptions. The novel, which we are considering today, introduces tax exemptions for the reservation of companies for pensions, jubilee awards and retirement benefits, which are the benefits that only about a thousand companies enjoy. This is largely a matter of large enterprises which will receive €6 million of new tax leave from the country's budget in this account. In addition, the Government also introduces new tax reliefs for businesses to cover the costs of supervisory authorities and the costs of a representative of €2.6 million. This may sound a little technical, and I will translate it into a more human language: the government is introducing tax reliefs for lobsters for managers and supervisors, and the polls will pay the working people in this country, and who else. At the same time, it introduces other facilities for the so-called digital and green transition. I did not use some of the words as an inkling, but as some actual weight, because they can never bring any relief to digitisation and green arrival. This can only be done through investments, public investments that are planned, politically supported and then carried out. In particular, ambition after the digital and green transition, as the government of Janez Janša speaks of it, is abominable if we know that this same government in the novel of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act has given 29 million euros of tax leave to rich people for the purchase of wasteful, environmentally harmful luxury cars, and now all of a sudden, when taxed on the income of legal persons, it pretends to solve the environmental crisis with new exemptions for private people. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really think anyone else believes you in this country? At conceptual level, we can see digital and green transitions as follows. The private sector is incompetent to address the environmental crisis, so much so that this fact has become evident even to the International Monetary Fund, is true to the international institution of Western capitalism, which says that private investors in the field of carbon in investing in productive capital and infrastructure are hampered by high production costs and by strong uncertainty, which is often impossible to market. If we translate: for private companies, solving the environmental crisis is not profitable enough to do anything important. This is clear even to the International Monetary Fund, only to Slovenian Finance Minister Andre Shirtz. Or, pardon me, I am correcting myself, including Andrei Shirtzl, Minister of Finance, it is clear that he is merely cynically looking away when he writes about the taxation of the rich in the legislative proposals, because it is politically opportunistic to the government of Janez Janša, he wants to reward his friends at the expense of citizens and citizens. As it is said, the decarbonisation of the economy and the green transformation of the company can only be achieved by setting up large public investments in low-carbon technology, energy, transport, without prejudice to market legality and private profits. So we're not looking at what's worth doing, we're doing what's right to address climate damage. Of course, our government doesn't want to, it doesn't know, because it puts the interests of capital ahead of the public good. All he can do is share subsidies and quasi-green tax relief for private people, and then passively waits for a green transition to take place. And there won't be a green pass. Finally, the revised tax oasis policy, which is hidden in this novel, must be highlighted. Tax havens are subject to us in the same way as elsewhere in the European Union in countries where the general or average nominal rate of corporate income tax is lower than 12,5 %, and these are not Member States of the European Union. Well, after this new paragraph, the entry is added that Mr Andrej Šircelj, the financial officer, should list such a country and there may be no country on the list. Obviously, Mr Šircel will be able to voluntarily place countries on the national tax oasis list, even if it is a country where the rate of profit tax is lower than 12.5%. And it's in a government that already divides citizens and citizens into first-class and second-class people. Of course, first-class ladies and gentlemen are currently in government alone, and their lobbyist friends and the economic network behind them, we are all second-rated. Now he's doing the same thing with tax havens. It is likely that the first-class tax oasis are those in which the arms of snowmen and similar tax evasioners wash their finances, while the second-class are those who do not have the privilege of working with John Janš’s networks. And this is done at the same time as we have witnessed for the first time serious initiatives to address the disappearance of funds in tax havens at global level. Even the United States of America, this country and the fortress of capitalism, which is a memento for diverse lobbyists, have begun to mobilise its software power and influence that they have around the world, in order to stop the flow of funds from countries that need it to finance their social programmes. Where corporations work, they should also pay taxes, from these taxes should be financed by social programmes, green transformations and everything else that citizens and citizens of these countries need, but not that the resources made in the area of the jurisdiction of one country are poured into tax havens. Even the United States has started to mobilise its software power in action against tax havens, but not the government of Janez Janša. At the same time, he's doing the opposite. For all the reasons I have stated and tried to explain them, we will, of course, also oppose this part of the tax burden on the rich and capital today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Law on corporate income tax is one of the laws of the tax change package aimed at reducing the tax burden on our taxpayers. Christian Democrats believe that a person with money and financial resources can act more responsibly, prudently and rationally than a country, making two out of one euro. In New Slovenia we trust people and this is an integral part of our economic programme. In 2019 15 000 inhabitants moved from Slovenia. Of these, there were 5,000 759 between the ages of 20 and 40. We need to enable young people to create with us if we want them to stay at home as well. In doing so, it is extremely important that we link knowledge to practice. Therefore, the amendment of the law proposes to upgrade the employment allowance. In the case of an existing allowance for the employment of a young person of 45 % of the remuneration for the age of persons for whom relief may be granted, it is thus extended from 26 to 29 years. A new provision is made for the application of a higher amount of relief for the employment of younger persons first engaged in employment, i.e. persons under 25 years of age. It will be easier to pay 55%. The existing relief also extends to the employment of people with disabilities. This is a 45% salary relief. In addition to this, it is proposed to increase the maximum possible relief for the debtor who accepts the apprentice, student or student, from 20 per cent to 80% of the average monthly wage in Slovenia. The proposal also refers to grants. A higher relief is provided for humanitarian, cultural and sports grants. This increase is from 0.3% to 1%. In addition, sport purposes shall also be inserted between the purposes for which an additional relief of 0,2 % is possible. For sport, therefore, the percentage of relief is increased from the current 0,3 to 1,2 %. This is a question that we have long addressed in New Slovenia. The proposal for a law also introduces some other burdens, such as the provision to temporarily recognise the establishment of a pension reservation, a jubilee and a retirement benefit as a percentage of the amount of reservations that have been made. This is a measure that will be in force up to and including 2026, which is also important as aid to the post-crisis economy. An extremely important change is also the introduction of a new relief to promote a green and digital transition, with the application of which the taxpayer will reduce the tax base for certain qualified investments. It may impose a reduction in the tax base of 40% of the amount representing investment in digital transformation and green transition. The law also provides for a more favourable, easier recognition of expenditure in determining the tax base. Since this is a law that brings tax burdens, we will, of course, support it in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u116	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the context of the first reading, we will today decide on the appropriateness of the Government's amendment to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, so that it is suitable for further consideration. The novelty contains two substantive sets of amendments, namely the implementation of the provisions of the Directive of the European Union relating to taxation procedures vis-à-vis third countries. The new measures will ensure a higher level of fairness of the global tax system. Such, on the basis of the European Directive, a coordinated system upgrade is justified and necessary to prevent tax abuses. Others, a more important set of legislative changes, represent partial changes in the tax relief system for businesses, which would otherwise have some negative financial implications for the budget, i.e. lower tax flows, according to the Ministry of Finance estimates for a good EUR 16 million per year. However, the effects of new or additional tax reliefs need to be seen not only from a financial point of view, but mainly from the perspective of the broader, complex objectives pursued through the upgrading of the system of existing benefits. First of all, it is about promoting investments in green and digital transitions, i.e. environmentally friendly technologies and a wider computer upgrade. In addition to encouraging the employment and training of young people and encouraging businesses to make donations for charitable, sports, cultural and similar purposes. In this set of tax changes or additional reliefs, it should be stressed that they are not partial measures, but rather a carefully targeted set of measures, which together with two other government amendments, the Income Act and the Value Added Tax Act, constitutes a tax reform, the main guide of which is the financial and administrative burdens of natural and legal persons. In particular, it is important to point out that the fiscal deficit of tax revenue will be compensated, under one, by increased consumption of the population, under two, mainly by increased business activity, as well as by a stimulating tax policy, our economic environment will become more attractive for new investments. All of this is a generator of economic growth, which is the result of higher tax or budgetary inflows, so Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal for a new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u118	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! For many years, the European Union has pointed out that Member States lose up to €70 billion of tax revenue each year due to multinational practices, which do not pay taxes aggressively where they create them, but where this is more favourable for them. As published in the European Court of Auditors this year, the estimates of revenue lost from avoidance of corporate tax are between €50 billion and €70 billion per year in the European Union. If specific tax arrangements and inefficient tax collection are also included, about €190 billion per year. The amendment is therefore transposed at European Union level in a way that, in addition to the national list of countries with a general tax rate of less than 12,5 %, we also introduce an agreed European list on which tax-risk countries are included. The countries will be included in the so-called European list according to three key criteria: tax transparency, fair tax taxation and implementation of the OECD minimum standards to prevent tax evasion and re-routing of profits. In fact, it is a list of countries which are not prepared to participate for tax purposes. The financial consequences of tightening tax policy in terms of defence against countries with unfair tax practices cannot be assessed in this case, but due to the reduction of the abuse of multiple taxes is expected. In addition to this novel, it brings important news that will have very negative effects on our tax system. The Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is one of the laws that are part of the so-called tax reforms of the Janša government. It provides for an increase in tax incentives for grants from the current 0.3% and 0.2% to 1% of income. If the novel is adopted, pensions and jubilee awards will be recognised as expenditure at 100%. The recognised costs of representation and of the Supervisory Board are raised from the current 50% to 60%. The legal person who will carry out practical education will, in the new way, have a total of 80% relief. There is a whole new introduction of a green and digital transition facility. The debtor will apply a new reduction of the base by 40% of the amount invested, but not when the funds invested will be obtained either from the state or from the European budget and will have the nature of the grants. The increase in tax reliefs and the introduction of new ones mean that the tax collected will be less. Each relief reduces the basis from which companies have to pay a tax with which the state budget is full. It will cost us €1.5 million this year, €6 million in pensions and anniversary awards, €2.6 million in costs, and €16.5 million in green and investment relief. By adopting this law, we will cut the budget annually by €27 million. In the SAB, we believe that in the current public financial situation, when the state budget is fully exploited, such decisions are reckless, unrealistic, irresponsible and, consequently, fatal to the state budget and to the fragmentation of state subsystems. The fact is that we have spent 4 billion Euros that we did not have and for which we had to take responsibility to combat the epidemic. The fact is, the current government of Janez Janša has historically entrusted us. It is extremely worrying that the state of public finances in Slovenia has deteriorated significantly more than the European Union average. It should be clear to everyone that such an increased volume of debt prohibits any reduction in the revenue of the budget. This government should do exactly the opposite by drawing up measures to drive Slovenia out of the crisis and bringing the state of public finances back to the pre-crisis level. But this government is doing the opposite. Instead of taking care of higher budget revenues, it reduces them. If income is not sufficient, this will mean reducing other public expenditure such as salaries, pensions, social rights and could still be listed. The new law is part of the tax reform of the government of Janez Janša, which will deprive us of billions of euros in budget revenues. In the SAB, we believe that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In principle, the State implements three objectives within the framework of tax policy: meeting common and public needs, redistribution of gross social product created and balanced and stable economic development. The challenge of modern tax systems is to provide incentives for accelerated economic development and the basic level of social rights of citizens, while covering the basic functions of the state. The tax system is designed in direct dependence on other subsystems within the broader social, economic system of each country. Tax reform, which will not take into account domestic economic realities, will only increase the budget gap. Political haste creates an ideal environment for new big mistakes. It would be good to keep in mind in all this enthusiasm that the primary objective of tax policy is to fill the state budget, that it does not carry a large budget debt too far into the future and that, ultimately, it prevents the country from going bankrupt. When tax authorities hand over a sparrow to a pigeon on a roof, this is very risky because a tax pigeon rarely, if ever, lands on the ground. Public finances cover the overall structure of instruments and relations governing public funding from budgetary resources. The tax system, the regulatory framework for taxation, the functioning of the State's tax policy instruments are important factors affecting business policy. Under the tax mechanism or under the tax system, the country uses a mechanism of authority and political arrangements based on the redistribution of the power to meet the wider social needs and to correct the market mechanism. The fairness and justification of the State's intervention in redistribution of the social product and in the functioning of the market mechanism is a constant issue and a challenge in shaping the economic policy of a modern country. The regulation of tax policy and tax system in modern societies further complicates the fundamental conflict in the interests of citizens who, on the one hand, want to reduce tax burdens while requiring the maintenance of the achieved scope of public services and social welfare. With economic and technological development, they only step up these requirements. The corporate income tax is, by its size and extent, the fourth most important tax source in the structure of the state budget revenue. In 2019 997 million Euros of revenue under this heading were realised. The proposed changes, which will have a negative impact on income, include the following areas: a new facilitation for promoting a green and digital transition, through the enforcement of which the taxpayer will reduce the tax base for certain qualified investments; a higher facilitation for sport-related donations and a higher facilitation for the implementation of practical training in vocational education; an upgrade of the employment allowance, which is extended through the employment of disabled workers; and a particular provision for the creation of a higher amount of employment relief for young people who are first engaged in employment; a better recognition of the cost of booking, pensions, jubilee awards and retirement benefits, and an increase in the recognised costs of representation and of the supervisory board or body that performs the supervisory function. It all has a negative financial impact, of course. It is estimated at around €27 million. At first glance, this is not much, it is only 2.7% of the realised revenues in 2019. For a more visual picture, however, it is necessary to look at how the Slovenian State dealt with this fundamental tax in the area of direct taxation of the income of legal persons in the past poor decade and a half. This is best seen in the final accounts of the budgets for each year. The corporate income tax was the highest in 2008, one billion and 257 million euros, down to EUR 265 million by 2013. Thus, in six fiscal years, 992 million euros fell, virtually for a billion. Since 2014, these revenues have gradually increased to 468 million and up to 2019, as has already been said, up to 997 million. This is still 260 million euro less than it was realized in 2008. All this time during these 13 years, tax rates, tax reliefs have been widely experimented with, with differences between actual and tax-recognised expenditure. For individual categories, there are, of course, differences that are due, for example, to inadequate consideration of the costs of material, expenditure on sales of stocks of products and commercial goods, depreciation, internal transfer prices, interest, wages, long-term reservations and expenditure on the basis of other expenditure. The sublimation of all these experiments is the fact that the country created a smaller impact in 2019 than in 2008 and we are talking about income from corporate income tax. We can also call this reverse-induced experimentation, and with this swelling we have to stop slowly in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in Slovenia today in the field of tax policy is quite similar to what began in the late 1970s and was called the tax revolution. She achieved her full approval within the two mandates of Reagan's administration. Her doctrinal basis was linked to the so-called supply-side school, the economics of the offer. The doctrine promotes tax reduction and mitigation, and this is justified by expectations that economic operators and citizens will be more motivated to work and to invest. As a result, there will be increasing revenues and profits, and thus a higher tax base. The lower tax rates applied to the higher tax base will ultimately increase budgetary revenues. In line with this logic, President Reagan's administration has reduced its tax rates, especially those for the richest ones, and the budget deficit has started to rise instead of falling. The predicted effects have never materialized; the reality has become a preposterous theory, but the policy of low taxes has persisted and has been maintained to this day. All that changed was the argument. The economic virtues of low taxes are now of secondary importance, stressing the urgency caused by globalisation, now and at the moment also by post-epidemic processes. If the state does not increase taxes, then companies may not move production to countries with a more favourable tax policy. There are objectively no conditions for tax reductions and correction of the tax system in different segments is necessary. A progressive tax scale should be introduced, if not for fiscal revenues, at least for the sake of social dignity. Tax discipline must be increased and budgetary spending rationalised, and overall budgetary expenditure will be difficult to reduce if not impossible to reduce. At any moment, we must ask ourselves where Slovenia will finance all projected investments in infrastructure, how it will repay credits and how it will reform the pension system. Members of the Desus Group have different views on the matters described, individually supported, which will prevail in deciding whether the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons are appropriate for further consideration or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Andrej Zabret has the word to prepare Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry and colleagues and colleagues! If I were to summarize today just one final analysis of the fiscal world on the impact of tax reform, I think I would have already said everything. The basic Communication from the Fiscal Council on the analysis of tax reform measures – this analysis is essentially based on the Commission's decision to monitor public finances – seriously points out that tax reform will have a major impact on public finances, but unfortunately a negative impact. Although today's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons has a minor impact on public finances, about 87 million a year, other laws that are in the tax reform package, including the law on debirocratisation that still awaits us, have a huge negative impact on the budget. The coalition proposed that all tax reform laws should be dealt with on an urgent basis, but the proposal did not receive a sufficient majority. The reason should be that if these laws are not adopted, there will be difficult remedial consequences for the country. I think that such laws, which are so important and which are referred to as tax reform, only require a little more time and discussion and include all the stakeholders involved in this reform. Therefore, I think it is quite the opposite that the adoption of these proposals will have difficult remedial consequences for public finances and for the state of Slovenia, which the Ombudsman also points out, is the Fiscal Council. The government says that the loss of revenue will compensate by spending more on people with more available income. It is already true that in the last year and a half of bank deposits have increased by around 2 billion, the right people have more than 2 billion more in their accounts because at the time when the covid crisis was actually saving, but it is unrealistic to expect that this will happen in numbers such as these reforms anticipate. Umar also says that, I quote: "There is a reliance on increasing consumption, very uncertainly, so such interventions should be combined with measures to ensure the sustainability of public finances. For the stability of tax revenue, account must be taken of all aspects, since there may be a need to raise some other taxes soon.” End of story. I would add here that not only can taxes be raised in the near future, but the rights acquired can also be reduced, which means less for health, education, social. How the government will achieve the loss of these revenues, we do not know because it has not made any calculations to demonstrate the neutralisation of the public financial impact on the balance of the state budget. It is said that no one knows how about a billion or a billion 52 in four years will win the government back into the budget. The fiscal world is also very serious about this. And let's just look at a few numbers that say how much we're going to be married. Let's just say the Act on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act will bring 247 million less into the state budget in 2025, already 846 million. If we are talking about the amendment law that we are discussing today, amendments to the Law on corporate income tax are about 27 million per year, the Law on Value Added Tax 14 million euros. But if we talk later about the law on debarcation, where the fiscal impact of between 50 million and 165 million is lower in the budget, it means that all these tax laws that await us will reduce the budget by a billion 52 in 2025. I think we're talking about huge numbers. And to say that this will only bring back more people's consumption is kind of funny. The government of Janez Janša is therefore engaged in tax cuts under tax reform during the co-existence of the crisis and a large public debt. It is these three novelties, we said, the Income Act, the corporate income tax and VAT, which are expected to bring more into the register by reducing taxes. All these three novels have not been reunited with the social partners, they have all gone through the Economic and Social Council, and not least cause a huge additional gap in the budget, not only temporarily but in the long run. Perhaps the creative accounting of Mr Shirtzl's Minister of Finance can be useful at the entrepreneurial level, but this will certainly not work out at the state level. Let me remind you that last year the budget hole amounted to more than €3 billion, of which only 70% of this hole relates to covido measures. This year's budget gap is supposed to be almost €4.2 billion, I don't know, it could be higher, but only today we have a mancha in the cash register 2.1 billion, and we know who we are, July 12th. Whether it be criticism or not, I call it positive criticism, today's proposal for a law is, of course, also making proposals that I welcome. These are changes such as in Article 10: “If a new employee employs a person under 29 years of age or a person over 55 years of age or is employed from a profession for which there is insufficient staff in the labour market according to the needs of employers.” I certainly support this, as this broadens the scope of the employment facilitation, namely the employment of people with jobs for which there is not enough staff on the market. The next solution is also, for example, Article 11, where the tax base is reduced by 40% of the amount of investment in digital transformation and green transition, says cloud computing, artificial intelligence and big data, environmentally friendly technology. That's a good solution, too. Article 12, where they increase the discount from 20% to 80 for the admission of apprentices, students or students for practical work in vocational education, is a great measure. We know that companies find it difficult to take students or students into practice, so that this will certainly accelerate the interest of companies. Then also Article 13, which provides for a higher relief for grants and so on. So, of course, in this bill, there are also quite a few good solutions that we support in the LMŠ. However, it must be pointed out that, unfortunately, this government cares only for the expenditure side but not for the income side. The Fiscal Council also points to this. Indeed, the majority of the revenue foreseen by the Government relates only to projected higher economic growth and GDP is expected to increase on average at a level of 5%, which is absolutely insufficient to cover all the additional obligations imposed by all these laws. This growth should be at least 1.5 to 2 percentage points higher. Already this 5% economic growth is estimated to be pre-optimistic. Probably, I'm pretty sure the Minister of Finance himself doesn't believe all this. The proposed tax reforms, according to model estimates by the Fiscal Council, will cumulatively increase the debt of the sector by between 4 and 14 percentage points of GDP. These really aren't negligible numbers, even if we know what kind of public debt we already have. In addition to the tax reform, the introduction of a social cap is still needed, this measure will reduce by 100 million pensions per year and by at least 65 million health bills per year. Upgrading the income tax system will reduce revenue by 247 million in 2022 alone. Then we know that we have an investment law in the Slovenian Army, which costs us 145 million a year, we have a long-term supply to cover the entire cost of long-term care, where we need an additional 300 million, and not least a demographic fund, which will also drastically reduce the amount of dividends in the budget, depending on the economic growth of each year, but a circus of 150 to 200 million a year. And once again, let me say it again. While the state budget will record a record flaw last year and this year, the government has drawn up a package of tax legislation to tax pay and capital income and thus create an additional gap in the budget. I have to remind myself in this regard, and it is particularly interesting that you were even a decade ago when Slovenia was in a severe economic and financial crisis, advocates of savings and as little debt as possible. You called the country a troika, a group of institutions where the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF were. But today it's completely different, we're not talking about millions anymore, we're talking about billions, and it's billions up, billions down, and nothing to anyone. We have nothing against tax changes in the LMŠ. Of course, tax legislation is a living thing. We have also adopted a mini-tax reform in the government of Marjana Sarca, but all changes related to tax restructuring need to be addressed comprehensively. As a result of all these measures, Slovenia will be able to expect a very weak future turmoil in the financial markets as it will have to be further indebted. The main problem with the debt is the need to pay interest for it. This reduces the available resources for other purposes that enable the social state to function. At present, there are times when interest is really very low, even after a negative interest rate, and Slovenia has owed itself, not just Slovenia, with which, in fact, this government has been justifying the debt and spending of public money all the time. However, we need to know that this money will not always be so cheap and also the credit rating that affects the price of money, no. Slovenia also needs to refinance between 2 billion and 3 billion loans each year. Then there will be other times and the risk of becoming a financial market target again is not negligible. In addition, the fact that the low-cost debt is not only a domain or good governance of the government of Janez Janša, but is a result of the European Central Bank's expansion policy and not a result of government action. Therefore, an increase in debt in the crisis needs to be used effectively to strengthen the economic potential for value-added expenditure, investments that will in the future bring economic growth for business, competitiveness, not for current expenditure, wages, transfers, too expensive protective equipment, unused fans. We keep reminding LMŠ about this. This government, as I have already said, only cares about the spending side and does nothing on the income side. And only care about the pre-election economy or financial hooliganism. Domestically, this means that money will run out soon, perhaps for wages, health care, education, and rights. What are we going to give up then? We'll see. It is reckless and unreasonable proposals for amendments to tax legislation, which several institutions, notably the Fiscal Council and Umar, point out. In addition, the epidemic is not yet over, the government is already forecasting a third wave; it is only a matter of date. On Monday, the President of the Government also announced a lockdown in September, and on the other hand, the Minister of Economy, Mr Restoration, says that we cannot afford another lockdown. I also agree with this and I do not know what will happen when all these measures, which are now mitigating the consequences of the pandemic, the possible closure of the economy, the re-lockdown. Sooner or later, when these measures cease to apply, including the bankruptcy of zombie companies, unemployment, that is a fact. Already, all these laws that we are considering as a package of tax reform pose an additional risk to the sustainability of public finances over the medium term, not to mention all of the CAPs that we have adopted, including measures that have nothing to do with covid crisis. If I give it just to make it easier to imagine how much this government has already committed to every citizen. This year, it will exceed EUR 20 000 and each individual citizen will be in charge of more than EUR 20 000 if we sum up an individual working citizen, which increases to EUR 42 000 400 or more than EUR 42 000 400. That's why I'm here wondering if now is really the time to cut taxes. The anti-korona measures have pushed a lot of government debt, although interest rates are currently very low, but this will not last indefinitely. Corrections will happen as soon as possible and this debt will have to be repaid once. We all know that no lunch is free, and also the European grants that we will draw from the Recovery and Resistance Fund will be reimbursed with future taxes. At this point, the Government should urgently deal with the development and green breakthrough and digitisation, instead of using the epidemic and pre-election time to enforce harmful proposals that act as pre-election candy, and it is a pre-election economy. Budget is not a self-service store. The fact that this government is paying with a credit card for citizens and citizens is personally unacceptable to me, so I will not support the law itself when it comes to voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Andrej Chernigoj, preparing a mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u124	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! On 1 July, the European Commission approved the Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan of €2.5 billion. Where the development of the European Union and even the world will go, it has been known for some time. Green and digitisation are two important segments to which the Republic of Slovenia must place more emphasis, not in the future, but already today. Therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons refers to this very issue. A new relief is being introduced to promote a green and digital transition, by which the taxable person will reduce the tax base for certain qualified investments. It may impose a reduction in the tax base of 40% of the amount representing investment in digital transformation and green transition. If we want digitisation, if we want a green society, we have to put something into it. Encouragement of citizens and citizens is one of the incentives and in New Slovenia we think it will make an additional breakthrough in this area. We have on the one hand – in New Slovenia we trust this data, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment – according to data reported in June, 71 000 881 unemployed people. On the other hand, when we look at 2019, 15 thousand 100 people moved from Slovenia, of which almost 6 thousand were between the ages of 20 and 40. This is said to be the people who would work the most in the future and bring the most to all cash registers in the Republic of Slovenia. We are therefore aware of the need to encourage young people to encourage employers on the other hand. This amendment law also rewards or provides employment benefits. The existing relief extends to the employment of people with disabilities of 45% of their salary, with an already existing 45% discount for the employment of a young person in the amount of 45% of their salary, from 26 to 29 years of age, and newly provides for the application of the amount of relief for the employment of young people who are first engaged in employment, under 25 years of age, in the amount of 55% of their salary. That's on one side. On the other hand, it is proposed to increase the maximum possible relief for the debtor who accepts the apprentice, student or student, from 20 per cent to 80% of the monthly salary in Slovenia. These are the data that will bring positive indicators in the future. For this reason, as a young citizen, I support this law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Finally, I would add one possibility to citizens and citizens a little less important, but for me, a very important issue, the level of relief for humanitarian, cultural, sports grants is set, and could also be listed as objectives, rising from 0.3% to 1%. In addition, sport purposes shall also be inserted between the purposes for which an additional relief of 0,2 % is possible. For sport, therefore, the share increases from the current 0.3% to 1.2%. These are things that will also help sports purposes, humanitarian and cultural purposes in the future, so that they can live more, that these activities will be more involved in society, and this will have multiple effects not only on the development of society, but also on the culture of society. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich, prepare Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Member and Members of Parliament, a nice welcome to you on my behalf as well! When we talk about public finances, a number of questions are opened and the questions are significantly more than we have the moment of answers. The answers on the table are all as logical as they are, so we are accompanied by a traveler or the call of a traveler that the future is not good. This proposal, which is before us, is in fact very minor for all billions of minus. Certain measures are welcome when we talk about 30 million, the sum of sumarum is little less than 30 million budget implications, which is not some amount for all these deficits. However, I fear that these amounts, which are intended to do so, will not properly follow the objective of employment or the creation of a future, as my colleague Montenegro said that someone with 10, 15 million will save young people from Slovenia. That amount just won't happen. I am sure that those who are evicting know that this debt, which is now emerging and record, will have to be paid each year for about 4 billion euros and that it will have to be paid by them, and that this is also one of the reasons why people are evicting. If we look at the situation a little bit wider. True, we now have 71,000 unemployed, and we do not say that according to the data of May there were about 45,000 people on one of the forms of waiting for work. What's going to happen to these people? Are these people actually unemployed, or have these 45,000 people been waiting for a year? This is a question with which the government should come before us, that is, with this data, to say clearly how many people have been on hold for three, four, five months now, whether these people lead as employees or unemployed. These are data that affect the sustainability of public finances. Of course, we simply don't get these answers. All the government has done so far is open up a small state budget, and people get the feeling that it's all the money you want. But let's see what happened in health. Only waiting types and record poofs were created. Unlimited, aimless spending of money does not provide solutions to problems, even more, it can even cause additional new ones. When we talk about what economic growth we would need to pay for it, we expect economic growth to be 5-6% in the coming years. You know, it's very risky. We are talking about this by almost getting a sense that the ministry has calculated the profitability it needs, i.e. 6% economic growth, and it is all booked. But if a false hope is given, it does calculations with unrealistic simulations, of course, then unrealistic solutions come along. I'm afraid we're going to have a very severe headache over this. If we look a little wider. Other budget users also plan their future expenditure, including local communities, on the basis of such a budget. If we know that we have 30% of the budget per pouf, i.e. on credit, that it is not coordinated with income, then it means that the municipalities also plan 30% of their future spending on false or non-existent revenues, and of course these risks are increasing. I'm very afraid that we're going to have a headache soon and that when it comes to sobering up, it's going to be very bad. I'll be very plastic. When someone tells us to get free money – they give the drug to the junkie first for free and then the drug dealer starts charging it at high prices and we know how it ends for that. The comparison I made is really a little sharp, maybe even grave, but I think when we talk about the seriousness of the matter, it might have been appropriate in this case. As far as the law is concerned, in view of the overall situation in the SAB, we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Because when we look at this in the context of the planned tax reliefs, no simulation has been made of what will happen to income and expenditure. We in the SAB believe that this position of the Government, that higher spending will generate more revenue or sufficient revenue in the budget, is not sustainable. I'm also sure that if it lasted, then the Ministry would prepare a simulation like that, and it would avoid it in any way. In the SAB, as I said before, we won't support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the next word, Mr Igor Pecek is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Law on corporate income tax. Simply put, the purpose of this law is to collect as much tax as possible from legal persons to pay in the Republic of Slovenia. That's the way to put it. Because we know that there are still a number of countries on a global level that are known for their risks known for their abuses or for their massive capital accumulation. And that's the result of tax evasion in those countries where this capital comes from. We, too, are the country from which we are running out of a lot of capital. There's more than one way. And since at global level the control mechanisms and controls are not so successful that this does not happen, it is necessary to do as much in national legislation as possible to prevent this from happening as much as it is now. In fact, there is a competition market here. If you're not tax-free, then there's no income. Let us look back, all for a decade or for the last 15 years and so on, what Mr Polnar has presented very well, taxes were on the rise and revenues did not follow the tax hike. No revenue has been traced, look at the numbers. This is said to be something wrong with this strategy, something has to be done in a different way. However, if you are tax-competitive, you are able to expect more revenue. I'll give you an example. If we look at the situation in Croatian marinas, where there are hundreds of millions or dozens of billions of values of vessels, show me in Croatian marinas how many Slovenian flags there are, that these vessels are registered under the Slovenian flag. It's very difficult for me to find a vessel. Go look at our only marina, in Portorož, if 20% of the vessels are registered under the Slovenian flag. And the question is, if they are, because they are all registered under various foreign flags, where they are more tax-friendly. This is a concrete example and very clear and very visual very close. That's what you say. You have to be tax-competitive. If you are not tax-competitive, you are not really friendly to young people who need to be encouraged to work at home, not to go abroad, and ultimately to foreign investors to come to Slovenia to build or invest in development and their business activities. There has also been a lot of debate on corporate tax and how this profit flows and so on. I think it will also be necessary to do something on the second segment, because we know that profits in Slovenia are paid to a lesser extent. One is the outflow of foreign companies and the other is the outflow through the abnormal chaining of companies. This is one of the major problems where profit is hidden – through chaining, the abnormal chaining of companies in Slovenia and, of course, abroad. We know that since the world is global, it is not a problem abroad to register businesses and then to actually erase the company's profits and thus completely avoid paying the tax. These are the problems. There's something else about control. We have heard today that the Fiscal Council is a great guardian of public finances. If we look back a little bit, the great Ombudsman should also be Banka Slovenije, as well as the Fiscal Council. However, if I look from 2008 to 2011, in those three years when the Slovenian banks stole between 4 billion and 5 billion from the agreed loans, and if we go to the annual reports of the Fiscal Council and Banka Slovenije for those years, the finances in the Republic of Slovenia are fine. Nothing has been found, no irregularities have been found, and if I give the average between this assessment, which is very real and 4 billion, these guards, if we read their reports, say that it's all right that nothing is wrong. I don't trust these guardians. I don't trust you. Or if they agreed to keep the frogs with them. I don't know, but I'm not going to judge anyone personally, not the Fiscal Council or the Bank of Slovenia. But I don't know what kind of Ombudsman we can talk about. It is indeed necessary to rely on national legislation. I personally believe that this must be competitive in order to pay as many taxes as possible in the Republic of Slovenia, not outside Slovenia. Because then, of course, there are no inflows to the budget. As I said at the outset, taxes were rising in the previous period, but the tides did not follow. So we need to make a change, we need to be tax-friendly. Of course, budgetary stability must also be taken care of in the coming period, this is very important. We cannot give certain ratings if there is no revenue in the state budget. Look at your predictions for the future. Slovenia will be safe among the first three countries in the EU in the next three years after the biggest economic growth. Well, correct me as soon as it doesn't. This is now very clear, according to the financial resources intended for development, the construction of both transport and other infrastructures in the Republic of Slovenia for the next five years. Construction of state infrastructure is the largest engine of the economy. Of course, this also means an influx into the state budget. This law will, I would say, be a very small relief offered in the economy, a very large engine for competitiveness, and of course also by paying more tax in the Republic of Slovenia. I will be absolutely happy to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Igor Peček, Mr Jože Lenart is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! One of the roles of the tax system is certainly to ensure competitive conditions. This role is crucial for the economy, but it is also wider, both for relations and for achieving the desired objectives and impacts of the tax system on society as a whole. I think it's necessary to keep an eye on it all the time. I am also in favour of the fact that taxes are not only an economic and fiscal category but also have a social impact that is not negligible. At the May meeting, the coalition proposed that all three tax reform laws be dealt with in an urgent manner. The proposal did not receive a sufficient majority, but I have already said the reason in my position, but the later adoption of the proposal would have difficult remedial consequences for the country, although I could have felt otherwise. There was no dialogue with the Economic and Social Council, there was no broader debate or public discussion of this law, and I believe that both of these would be necessary. If we look at them within the proposed tax reform only the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, we can also view them as positive, as welcome to businesses, but given the impact of 27 million and the fact that effective taxation of income in the Republic of Slovenia is among the lowest in both the OECD and the EU, we can think otherwise. 27 million at 10 billion, such as the revenue side of the budget, can be small but certainly not negligible. I think that the treatment of tax reforms should be more comprehensive, but I certainly think that, at a time when we are facing a very large budget deficit, this is now more than 2 billion, when we have a public debt growing, such behaviour is not worthwhile. In the LMŠ we were much more cautious when we established our own mini tax reform, the only regress we had at that time was especially burdensome, but what I hope to say is that we looked with the same attention both at the revenue and at the expenditure side. If I only list a few of the measures we took back then. It was the change in the income scale, the increase in general relief, the introduction of minimum taxation. At least around all these measures were balanced, but at the time the Fiscal Council had already expressed certain concerns about the impact that the proposed or later adopted tax reform had had on public finances. What we miss is first of all measures at the income level. We are confident and do not believe the story that Mr Minister has told many times – that all of this will come back through consumption. Still, we're worried about the budget cuts. After all, regardless of what someone thinks about the Fiscal Council, the Fiscal Council has made it very clear that it does not believe in increased consumption to this extent. In the budget, according to the Fiscal Council calculations, the government, with the proposed tax reform in the coming year, would divide the revenue and expenditure side of the budget by a large EUR 450 million. If we look also at the report or the analysis of the public financial impact of the proposed changes made in the Fiscal Council on the Commission's proposal for the supervision of public finances, then at least what I can say is that I am genuinely concerned. How much more so is Mr Kkukuk's statement on tax reform when he said: "The government assumes in the medium term that on average GDP will grow nominally at a rate of 5%, which is an optimistic forecast. If we want to further compensate for the loss resulting from the expected tax changes or reforms, this growth should be greater by at least a point and a half or two percentage points.” The prospect that we will be in debt in the future is likely inevitable, and that will happen. We know and like to say that a cheap debt at this point is quite appropriate for us to be in debt, and that these cheap borrowings are essential to government action, but I think now is really the time to say that this is not true. That's not true, at least to the extent you guarantee, no. I think it is more the result of the European Central Bank's expansion policy, because we can only look at the case in Ireland or what happened with Ireland when the purchase of bonds allowed for even more favourable debt or debt with the so-called negative interest rate. However, I am sure that an apology for a low interest rate debt is indemnity. The debt will have to be refinanced, and in the end the law also obliges us to a certain extent, and the market situation will change very quickly in my view. There is an epidemic, some are measures we need to take and must be taken to control and maintain the economy, to care for economic growth, while others are sustained and structural measures that do not have the proper basis and assumptions both on the income and on the expenditure side, particularly on the revenue side, and probably on the expenditure side with some other things to be carried out. In voting in favour of this law, which I have said has quite a few good solutions and I support them, I regret that I cannot give them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Jože Lenart has the floor, Mr Matjaž Han is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. We have before us a law on one part of taxes where the government wants to reduce taxes through tax reform and, of course, makes a hole in the budget. In the government of Marjana Šarca we were used to one truly order, caring. Every tax reform, including the mines we have implemented, we have carefully prepared, the whole picture and all the budgetary implications. This made it easier for us to make decisions. Of course, in this we were forced by a fiscal rule, that is a fact, even if it were not – thank God that it was that we got used to some order because we know what happened in that period after 2000 to 2008. Anyway, we've heard today that there was a very good growth and I don't know what else, but this growth that was then was a tree in ruins. And this crash really happened after 2008 with that crisis and this bank hole. Whatever the right-hand side of us this time, what happened at the time was the reason for the uncontrolled debt of the economy at that time. And that at the time it was allowed that growth was also 5% higher, and that it was then followed by a break. This was an unusual consequence. The birds on the branch are already chirping and understand that the result of this and the irresponsible behaviour of governments between 2000 or perhaps even earlier, which was exponentially raised towards 2008. Look at this table, today we are dealing with just this, this law, a novelty of the Law on Taxes from Legal Persons. This change is expected to affect even 107 million deficits within four years. This is just one of these, and that is why I am very disturbed by such partial treatment and adoption of these laws, but we do not see the whole picture. I will be very pleased when the Ministry of Finance and Government presents the budget documents 2022-2025 or at least two years ahead, and see what the picture is then and how you will put together to ensure that the expenditure does not exceed the revenue. Then we can talk very clearly about what and how. However, I hope you do not think that this government will resign before you have to put these budget documents on the table. Really, it's only then that we can talk, but today you like to talk about how good this is, I don't know who or what. With certain matters, I will even agree, then I will state it, but at this point, when you listen from the Prime Minister at the Janez Janša Summit to the Minister, to the government as a whole to make up for the consumption, when you add up what you expect, and all the investments, everything that goes on from the budget, we reach a figure of 5 billion in four years. There's no god he's gonna fill this hole! There's no god. Economic growth, in order to gain 5 billion in four years, I think – who is thus misleading the public and us here in the National Assembly is wrong. There has never been such growth in history and it cannot be. For if we are watching the world’s economists today, what are they reminding us of? We are all now following this growth, the awe of some prices, inflation and everything else that this will bring. This is where the company's downfall will come in. We know how wood raw materials, which is our greatest wealth, are already rising prices, 30, 50 %. But to those who work in the woodworking industry, their customers do not recognize this higher price. All of this will carry a lot of weight. One more time. If we do not put a complete picture on the table, we cannot discuss these matters and, of course, we cannot accept such laws. Overall, however, the objectives of productivity and higher added value should be pursued. For three years now, we have been aiming to achieve the added value of an employee of €60,000 in the medium term. In 2019 we reached 47 000, which is more than 30 percent increase, which is also impossible. But that is, with such growth, we would only get closer to the average of the European Union, because we are only 88% to the added value and only 82% to the productivity. And that's the point. Here we should think about what colleagues and colleagues earlier said about where investments are, where development assistance is – to invest in those activities that have higher yields that have higher added value. If we were to save my textile industry today and these low-valued activities, we wouldn't be able to get anywhere. And we need to work on this, and we should be more involved in this national assembly, talking more about them, so that we can come out of this. We know that the added value is made up of: between 60 % and two thirds are wages and one third profit and depreciation. It's all art. And we're proposing to raise the minimum wage and everything's on its feet. Foreigners are fleeing because they will not be able to survive in Slovenia, because we are much below average and even below productivity. If we do this, then there will be no such development. It's not enough time today to talk about this in broad terms, but we should talk about it, not how we're going to lower some taxes now, but how much we're going to invest in the military. Thank God it's very necessary for health care, but of course, it's easy to say, from the budget we're going to give it and the revenue is going to go down. I can't solve these puzzles. However, I will be able to discuss when you put the budget documents on the table for this State Assembly so that we can discuss this. Only then can there be a serious debate as long as it is so partial, and I cannot confirm such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Since there are very few reported debaters left, let me read all who are still following. First he gets the word Mr Matjaž Han, then Mr Jure Ferrjan, Mr Boštjan Koražija and finally Mr Jožef Horvat. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! When we are in a difficult situation in general, when things are critical, it seems to me that before hysteria and before some crazy moves, we need to take a little pause and think not just one step forward, but, in my view, 10 steps forward. This is even more important when we talk about tax policy, about tax policy, about money, which is the only source that fills our budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I am aware that, as opposed to this tax reform, not only to this law, but also to the following laws, which will be difficult to defend in the next set – because, of course, for most countries, it is too consumer and so on, not to speak further – that it would be good for the state to have less in the budget and that people will have more in their pocket. That sounds very good, but of course the reality is different. When we change tax legislation, it is usually so that more is left in the pocket for those who already have enough to live normal lives, and we take it out of the pocket silently for those who are hard to break from day to day. Why am I talking like that? Because when we run out of money, of course, we start to squander on various transfers, we start to squander on things that mean a lot to people who live only on wages. I mean public health, public education, public transport, and I could name it all day long. The epidemic has caused great hardships between people and the economy, which all of us in this national assembly are aware of. It is therefore important how we react at a given time. Taxes are immeasurably important and the state must have a budget so that it can intervene in times — and this has proved now — when it is difficult. Of course, there are different views about whether we have split the money in half this year. If we look at the first phase, the first two PKPs, and consider those articles that are constitutionally controversial, it seems to me that it went relatively well in the first phase. And then, because of the political calculations, we started the calculations for my notions of throwing money out the window. The fact that we gave 640 million in one year for supplements, covid supplements in Slovenia, and one Germany, which is 41 times larger, and only 350 million, of course, is unacceptable. Because we gave the extras to those people — let me be forgiven — who did not deserve them, but they were not the ones who had daily contact with the covid patient. The country is currently recording a record budget deficit. The deficit amounted to 3.5 billion in 2020 this year, according to experts, the Fiscal Council and I do not know who else, this deficit will increase by 800 million more. It is said that we will be in charge of reaching over 80% in 2020 with 65% of our GDP. Of course, this would not be such a critical thing, because fiscal brakes are relaxed, all the countries have somehow been in debt, but we are still not stopping. In this National Assembly, we adopt legislation that cuts daily incomes, and daily flows money for my unjustifiable reasons. If we don't stop the horses here in a year, two years will be extremely difficult. To talk about how we owe ourselves cheap and that this is the best possible thing, of course, but I ask you in the hall: if you get now a million Euros of interestless credit, each of you, and you have to pay it back in three years without interest, do you hope to take it? Who's hoping to take it from us? None. Because we don't know how we're gonna get him back. And I think the country must have a similar opinion. It will be returned to those generations when that debt arrives on the agenda, and I hope they have enough money in the budget. If we're talking about a budget that's 10 billion euros heavy and we're paying a billion euros to service the debt, I don't know, a billion and 200 billion 300, now maybe a little less, give for the pension, something like that is social transfers, then they're public sector wages and we're left with – what? Relatively little money for investment and new added value. And, of course, we are dependent, and thank God, on the European resources, for which we will only see how and how we will get them and how we will spend them, so that we will have something of these assets in addition to concrete, which is very important, besides new roads and so on, that we can have a new added value. Under the line. The country is increasing budgetary expenditure and reducing budgetary revenue. These scissors, as we call them, are absolutely increasing. And who's gonna lock them up? Not that government, the next government. I can't get rid of the feeling that this government is going to be the next government, and I'm not even speculating who's going to be, setting mines, that it's going to have to break through the minefield. I think that this policy, fiscal policy, budgetary policy, fiscal policy, tax policy, is very dangerous that now that all fiscal rules are being relaxed, we are in uncontrolled debt, we are wasting money and we are comforting ourselves that money is very cheap because it is not responsible. We all know that if it is about a country like Slovenia, who said that this country is too taxed and that people are too taxed, of course it is not. I agree that the wages could be reduced, but we just have to be aware of how we're going to do all these cash filings, so it's pension, health and social. If we don't have a little peace on this job and we don't have the pension fund to continue to be so solidarityary and people won't trust our pension fund, then in a few years' time we'll have absolutely trouble, because young people will ask themselves why we have to pay for the pension fund, we'll find some financial instruments, because today everyone is selling it, I'll pay the minimum or not, and the state will take care of me. That's not right. Therefore, when we adopt tax legislation and even at such times, we really need to be careful. Tax on the income of legal persons to reduce this moment, I tell you, it really doesn't make sense. I have quite a few friends who are big privates, not nearly capitalists. Privates who have created what they have with their hard work, those honest craftsmen, most of them, say: "Matjaž, because it is not a problem tax legislation in Slovenia and the amount of tax legislation. If we have everything else regulated, the legal system, the social system, to see that we have good public education, to see that we have relatively good health care," we leave, now we have some things to do, "these taxes are not a matter of debate." What else do we have to do for these craftsmen, arrange for entrepreneurs in this country to develop in some way. This means that we will not burden them every year with taxation, with tax legislation, but that we will show them that things are different in this Slovenia than elsewhere. No, of course you go first to this law, which has some issues – okay, here has already said my predecessor, but it is a bit of a directive, and when we put the European directive into our legislation, it is always in a hurry in this country, I remember 15 years, but it is no big deal that we are always giving up another matter, which, of course, has nothing to do with the European directive. Of course, we advocate that this is a European directive, and then we follow urgent procedures to talk as little as possible about how we will prepare ourselves as possible, and then most of us in the National Assembly will adopt it. This seems irresponsible to me that the law that is yet to come, on income and so forth, I am not speaking at all, because there are really numbers, numbers that are abnormal, and I hope that this opposition, which now holds the government in some way, will realize that it is impossible for the country to accept it for the local community. I have to say, I don't even know what's going to happen in September, October. It is likely that the state will still need money to help the economy, people, so it cannot afford to pay taxes this year, so that the budget will have severe problems that it will already have. That is why I will personally be against this tax legislation. However, I am always prepared to talk about such a tax policy, which, of course, will be realistic, which will clearly see that work has to be less taxed in some way – and this is not an ideological floscule, which is what we have once done in the economy – we realize that we have to tax certain things that we do not have in Slovenia, these are real estates and so on that order is done here, and that, in fact, after we agree on a policy, economy and trade unions, we leave the matter to stand and not burden people, economies every year with changes in tax legislation. Because then there are no results. People then react in a different way and because they already find themselves in this Slovenia, and then they make killer salads to pay as little as possible. I would really appeal to the coalition, to the government, that maybe this moment is really not the wisest time to go to legislation that will reduce revenue. We already lack income in the National Assembly. As a result of this tax and other taxes, the company will have no problems, and companies have other problems that we need to solve in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Jure Ferjan is next, Mr Boštjan Koražija is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u136	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, honourable Members and Members of Parliament and all those who accompany us, one good day! There is certainly an important law before us, so allow me to make one parallel to the laws that we have adopted in this temple of democracy in a good year in the past few hours. Here I will directly refer to a number of anti-koronapacks to which you were also skeptical in the left opposition, you did not support them, some even voted against them, but this government, this government coalition has adopted them, and these measures have helped people, helped the Slovenian economy and are still working. This is evidenced by the specific figures, the numbers of the international institutions. I would point out that Slovenia will have one of the higher economic growth in the European Union this year, according to the latest figures, as much as 5.7% in gross domestic product, and that we have one of the lower unemployment rates in the European Union. These are very eloquent data, and these are also data reflecting successful measures and their functioning. More than 300,000 jobs were preserved by these measures and allowed the Slovenian economy to remain, however, that even during this period the difficult situation, at the time of the coronary crisis, the epidemic worked, remained, maintained jobs and maintained some potential and a basis for recovery from the crisis and further development. This is what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the leadership of Janez Janša, is very clear – that it is the responsibility of the State to create conditions for a creative and development-oriented economy. Of course, the measures and laws proposed by this Government also aim to do so. One such law is also the law that we are considering today, so allow me to give a few points on what this law is all about. In addition to the simpler and more favourable business environment, which will be achieved, inter alia, by facilitating the employment of persons with disabilities of 45 % of these persons' wages for the first 24 months of employment, there is an increase of 10 percentage points in the amount of the employment allowance for younger persons, the benefit for grants increases by 0,7 percentage points. However, an increase in the tax base of 40% of investments to promote green transition and digital transformation is of the utmost importance. Certainly a few points which I have highlighted, which are also very important in terms of the competitiveness of our economic environment and not only of international comparability, but not only for domestic and foreign investments, that those who create want to further develop their businesses, their story and thus create added value and raise the social benefits or gross domestic product. On the one hand, I am glad that I have also heard from the opposition, the power to see that they agree that the work in Slovenia is too taxed. I wish it would be in the future when we consider other laws in this area when we talk about tax relief – we know that the package is wide and rich and that it actually brings many benefits when we talk about general relief for all the working people – including obedience from all sides of this Parliament and that we will eventually adopt this legislation. I believe that we will have the most of these citizens and citizens, because higher net revenues also raise the standard of living for all citizens and citizens, and I think that this is also one of the commitments that we have to follow in this national assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude my debate with this, which is not the last thing I started. Let us ask ourselves what it would be like today after more than a year of fighting the epidemic if the government that took over the leadership of this country in these crisis situations said: "Ah, it is not so bad, because it will somehow, because it will already be settled." However, there would have been no legislative proposals, and no laws adopted would have been under the roof of eight anti-koronapackets plus the law that we adopted in the course of this 24th regular meeting of the National Assembly, but we might now have a few analyses and perhaps one law under the roof. Believe me, economic growth would not be as predicted, and a significantly higher number of unemployment would be, and other indicators would be significantly more black-eyed. I'm sure this government has as much knowledge as courage. It has proved this in a good year and also proves by such proposals that will contribute to greater development and progress in our country, to the preservation of jobs, and I am convinced that we will also be internationally comparable and, above all, competitive and attractive in the wider context. I will therefore personally support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u138	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on corporate income tax is one part of this government tax package, which also includes the Income Act and the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act and the law on debarcation. The problem with all these laws, or this package, is that they are actually clearly digging or drilling one big financial hole into the state budget or public finances. When it comes to these matters, it is important to be very careful, even in these times, because we do not know what will actually happen in international markets, given what is predicted by certain fourths and even five waves of the epidemic of this coronavirus. Tax reform will certainly increase income and wealth inequality. I will now refer again to the proposal for a law on debarcation, which actually introduces an anti-social cap for gross salaries of more than €6,000. In fact, only that percentage, or in this case about 13,000 people, will benefit or have positive effects on their income, could be said to, but not everyone else. When it comes to adopting or amending harmful laws, we are the first in the barricades in Levica, which we always warn, which we always propose some new things that are really socially oriented or that are for people and not against people. Also in the new Income Act proposed by the Government, additional tax exemptions are emerging. Again, I think Mr Ferrjan spoke earlier about the fact that the levels of the highest income class will actually fall from 50% to 45%. Once again, there will be only about 4,000,300 people in this country who will benefit from this law. In particular, an imbalance increases or increases somehow, or in any way, leads to even greater tensions or even greater financial imbalances. And when these great discreets occur, there are also various problems that we are experiencing right now with the consequences of the laws that you have so far proposed to the National Assembly, or that you have also wanted to bring them together or that they are meant to be for people, but they are actually against people. As far as this novel is concerned, there's another big problem. I don't know how long you've talked about this before, but it's downgrading or even redundancies, whatever you want, to certain groups or certain private capital that dominates and owns the market. Again, given the overall tax rate, the effective rate of this tax, which is essentially a profit tax that has actually been falling in Slovenia for decades, which is now 19%, will be significantly lower than the general rate. Because in 2018 an effective rate was around 13% in Slovenia and 12.9% in relation to this effective work. Whenever the government of the current Prime Minister or the President of the Government arrives, since we have already experienced this, when the President of the Government was from 2004 to 2008, it always happens to reduce taxes or to gradually lower the general rate of profit tax, say from 25% to 20%. In its second government, which was led in 2012, this policy, or this government, was particularly generous with these tax reliefs, allowing companies to reduce their tax base to zero when investing in investments or research or development and thus completely avoid paying the tax. Here is the problem that all of Europe also points out – that it will be necessary to give concrete thought to the direction of fair and universal taxation in the sense that those who make the most or most of the profits on the market also pay the highest tax. I don't know why it's always such a big problem in Slovenia. Because, I think, normally, let's say that what could happen is that someone who deserves 6,000 euros or 7,000 euros a month would actually pay the same kind of insurance as a merchant or a nurse in a hospital. There is already great discrimination here, and I think it is right that this proposal for the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is rejected, or [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Your time's up. We have also exhausted the list of reported debaters. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. Madam Secretary of State, would you like a word? No, no, no. Then we finish this part. Since we still have time for discussion, I ask, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. Mr. Joseph Horvat signed up. Here you go. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, most governments want as much tax revenue as possible. More tax money provides greater political power and more opportunities to raise political points by meeting the wishes of different stakeholders: subsidising culture, sport, agriculture, solving decaying businesses, regional development and so on. In this desire, they usually raise tax rates and expect higher tax revenues, but this is not necessarily the right way. It did not ensure that higher tax rates also bring higher tax revenues to the budget. That doesn't even hold. The Christian democratic principle of taxes is or is derived from freedom. An individual should be given the freedom to have the money he deserves. Each individual is the best master with his own money. However, if the state collects it and then on the political line, as I have said, divides the various interest groups, it is very far from freedom. We are in the new Law on corporate income tax, part of the tax package prepared by the Government, which is of course supported in Nova Slovenija. We have very difficult months ahead of us, and a very difficult period when we are going through a pandemic that is not yet completed, of course, into some new reality, into a new normality, and we do not know what it will be like. If our economy is collapsing, then we're gonna lose everything. Then all the subsystems, education, health, social, etc. fall down. We must be aware that the only good economy, good jobs, read well-paid jobs, are the policy that actually makes it possible to finance the social state as well. What does this novelty of marriage bring? Among other things, a new relief is being introduced to promote a green and digital transition – is there something wrong with it? — by the application of which the taxable person will reduce the tax base for certain qualifying investments. It may impose a reduction in the tax base of 40% of the amount representing investment in digital transformation and green transition. I am grateful that the opposition has been and is probably still critical if our National Recovery and Resistance Plan represents insufficient investment in the green transition and the digital transition, but it is so-called green if you want tax reform. Although I do not like this expression too much, it is about promoting a green and digital transition. Employment allowances are being upgraded. Why is that good? Because the existing relief also extends to the employment of people with disabilities, the so-called deficient professions, up to 45 % of the wages. Is there something wrong with that? Do we have any deficit jobs? Yes, we do. Is it a problem, then, to introduce relief through this law for so-called deficient professions? Already in the case of an existing allowance for the employment of a young person of 45 % of the salary, the age extends from 26 to 29 years and so on. Colleagues and colleagues, as we all know, 15 thousand 100 people moved from Slovenia in 2019. Fifteen thousand 100 inhabitants. Of these, there were 5,000 759 between the ages of 20 and 40, according to the best form. We need to enable young people to create in our home if we are to have more at home. In doing so, it is extremely important that we also link knowledge to practice. We will conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration, of course we will support. We are counting on the assistance and suggestions of all parliamentary parties to further improve the law in the second reading. I believe that in the Slovenian economy and also in people, it will be well received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 13 July, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on electronic identification and trust services. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Peter Gersak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Public Administration, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u142	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and other participants in today's meeting! You have before you a proposal for a law on electronic identification and trust services, as supplemented by the adoption of amendments to the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government on 16. 6. 2021. I will continue to refer to this law with the ZEIZ. The objective of the ZEIZ proposal is to adopt Regulation 910/2014/EU or, in short, the eIDAS Regulation which entered into force 17. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The eIDAS Regulation has re-organized the concept of electronic identity and electronic signature, which we have not yet separated in the Republic of Slovenia. So far, we have used the same digital certificates to identify individuals in electronic commerce as well as for electronic signing, and the issue of digital certificates for electronic signatures is based on a new trust service. Therefore, the ZEIZZ will ensure national legal arrangements for the field of trust services, including the issue of a digital electronic signature certificate, where the regulation allows or allows national procedures and arrangements. However, in the field of electronic identification, the draft law also includes arrangements for the issue of national electronic identity. Let me list below the main points of the ZEIZZ. For the first time in Slovenia, the ZEIZ establishes a system solution for a single electronic identity issued by the Republic of Slovenia to Slovenian citizens and citizens, and under certain conditions also to foreigners on one or more means of electronic identification. Electronic identity will enable citizens to operate electronically and access all electronic services at home, in accordance with the eIDAS Regulation, as well as throughout the internal market of the European Union, as it will enable the user to be identified electronically wherever the identification of a person is necessary for the successful execution of the procedures. The adoption of the ZEIZZ is therefore essential for the inclusion of an electronic identity and a digital certificate for electronic signature on a new ID card. On the basis of the Act on Personal ID, two means of electronic identification of high and low levels of reliability will be found on a new biometric ID card. This will enable citizens to have the electronic identity of a high level of trust, while at the same time allowing the use of a ID card, for example, in the procedures in which we now use the health insurance card. It is important that the new ID card will also be the holder of the digital electronic signature certificate, which will enable electronic signature of documents. On the basis of the ZEIZZ, the Republic of Slovenia will offer through the trust services centre the possibility of electronic public sector service providers, as well as private sector providers registered in the Republic of Slovenia, of using electronic identity and means of electronic identification notified by other countries. ZEIZ also provides a legal basis for electronic authorisation, which will allow individuals to be empowered by the information system to operate electronically on their behalf. A simplified application to the eGovernment State Portal is also added and the identity of the customer is determined on the basis of the user data entered. However, the advanced electronic signature shall be used in the submission of applications through the eGovernment State Portal. Dear Members, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is held at 16. 6. 2021 At its 24th meeting, the amendments proposed by the SDS, NSI and SMC members also took into account the comments of the DZ Legislative and Legal Service, which were not of such a nature as to challenge the proposed concepts of the ZEIZZ. I therefore propose that you support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a working mother, and I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 24th meeting, on 16 June 2021, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft Law on Electronic Identification and Trust Services submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration. The representative of the applicant said that it was primarily a transposition into national law by the relevant Regulation and, on the other hand, some amendments that would allow greater security and efficiency in services that are now even more important or of utmost importance in modern times, even during the European Union's leadership. In the debate, MEPs and Members expressed some concerns, mainly by the opposition, about the transfer to the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and on certain individual solutions, but above all, it was a common view that everything relating to the issue of these licences should be accelerated so as to enable everyone to operate as quickly and normally as possible. After the discussion, the Committee adopted one of its amendments, namely Article 47, and 33 other amendments to the remaining articles of the law. All proposed amendments were by coalition, government groups. Finally, the Committee voted on such an updated text and adopted it, 11 in favour, none against. In view of this outcome, we propose that the draft Law on Electronic Identification and Trust Services be adopted today.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mag. Grims, I invite you to stay on stage, because the positions of the groups are being presented and, first of all, you have the floor to present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u146	Nice greeting on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! Today, of course, we live at a time when it is extremely important that electronic commerce is safe and that it takes place without any special disturbances. How important the security of electronic commerce has been in some of the attacks by hacker groups in recent years, particularly in the United States of America. We saw as in the days of socialism long columns of people waiting for fuel on pumps. Perhaps some tears of nostalgia have grown tired of this, but the fact is that this is virtually incompatible with modern business and with modern understanding of the efficiency and organization of the world. As a result, security of electronic commerce, including the related electronic identification and trust services, is of exceptional importance. Therefore, the new proposed law came at the right time, we only hope that it will fully justify the expectations that e-commerce in Slovenia will take place more quickly, smoothly and in particular safely. Slovenia needs secure e-commerce in order to be successful in being able to stand by all other competitors in the time of the globalised world equally and fully. This is necessary both for the sake of security, for the normal lives of people and for the efficient operation of businesses. All of this is connected, all of which is governed by this law, and this law is now proposed for future obligations, and in particular for the proper protection of all electronic communications, which are also related to the tasks performed by Slovenia in these days. We would just like the law to be adopted as soon as possible, and we will certainly be united in supporting the law in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved will be next in line to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! The area of the issue of electronic identity in the Republic of Slovenia is unfortunately regulated by a delay of more than a year. Because the law was almost identical to what this government was expecting, we find it unclear why it took so long to wait with it in the letter of Marjan Šarca. In particular, because we could avoid complications and crowding in administrative units for the purpose of issuing electronic identity for the purposes of visual confirmations if this law were adopted earlier. The law is the legal basis for the issue of an electronic identity card, which will be received automatically by citizens from 12 years of age, but this will not happen until next year, even though the Law on ID was made at the time of the government of Marjana Sarca and would have been easily adopted last year. But the government has been sweeping through it, and the mass need for electronic certificates has, of course, hit it completely unprepared, needlessly. The question of why people did not acquire electronic identities before, in some more normal times, is a fitting one, but the answer to it is simple — but they did not have the need. However, this government did not recognize the changed circumstances at its appearance, so the quarantine period of spring 2020 did not constitute an alarm that it should have heard. Electronic commerce has become a necessity and people should be adequately equipped with the technical solutions themselves, for which laws such as those present, as well as with appropriate knowledge, should be adopted. The government has not assured one another and today we have people who go to administrative units, the state offers them help to obtain a digital certificate, and then they cannot use this certificate to obtain a visual certificate and print certificates in pharmacies. So today, because of the circumstances, people are strongly motivated to use electronic services from the country, and the government is difficult to follow their needs. The purpose of this law is to set high safety standards for the allocation of electronic identity and the provision of trust services. At the same time, however, the Government introduces exceptions that undermine this concept and are highly controversial in terms of the protection of personal data. In the LMŠ we draw attention to the inadmissibility of a simplified application to the eGovernment State Portal. On this basis, without the use of appropriate electronic identification, it will be possible to obtain in a few steps very sensitive data from an individual, from the list of his or her family members' properties connected to the traffic offences penalty points. You don't have to be a hacker to get someone who doesn't have the authority to access and abuse this data. While government enthusiasts say that this is the best way to promote the e-business of citizens, it is not. At the cost of security in the digital world, we simply cannot simplify everything. Otherwise, in this government, everyone is now working on digitisation across the board, but they don't know each other. While the Ministry of Public Administration is bringing Parliament, although late, the law regulating and placing electronic identity in the right place would now be served by the recent de-de-barcation adviser, now Director Fursa even served court mail through a simple mail. In practice, even printing digital green certificates in the country has caused unbearable problems. Although we will not oppose the law in the List of Marjan Šarc, it is urgently necessary for the further digitisation process in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković will be next in line to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u150	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a completely new law with 57 substantive provisions and eight transitional or final provisions, which are being drawn up under the European Union Regulation on Electronic Identification and Trust Services. The bill went through a broader procedure also by the public concerned, as eGovernment's eGovernment national portal, which supports eDemocracy, was published by the end of February 2020. Several comments were made by the interested public and some comments were also included by the applicant in the draft law. We support the accession to the broader consideration of the proposal of the Social Democrats Act, but we would like to point out here that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has been very extensive and substantively detailed. They drew attention to the partial replacement of the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature and also to the amendment of the title, which was not technically appropriate. The opinion pointed out that the headings of the rules were not a normative text and should therefore not be amended. The proposed way of adopting a new law and amending an already existing e-commerce law may lead to incoherence of the adopted, repealed and existing provisions. Such a way of adopting legislation reduces legal certainty, which is contrary to the government's novelties, which seeks to establish order by means of a law on debarcation in the field of legal redundancies. This clearly does not apply to today's proposed law with the following for users, i.e. citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, important areas, this is the regulation of electronic identification. The draft law regulates the possibility of submitting applications via the eGovernment national portal using a central online application service and electronic signature for the purposes of identifying the identity of the user of electronic services, public administration authorities by identifying the user's identity on the basis of the user's data entered and establishing the legal basis for verifying the user's data in the official records. Thus, the user could also use electronic services without prior visit by the administrative unit or other service providers of qualified certificates. Once again, I would like to point out that the proposal for a law deals with services of trust. The key question here is whether we can trust. In the last month, at the time of the referendum, there was a lot going on on the eGovernment portal. In particular, the fact that the users of the eGovernment portal have been disabled by a wide range of tasks. That we are not even talking about waiting for the release and use of a qualified digital signature. It was possible to access the vaccination order, to obtain a certificate of vaccination via the IV portal and to a European certificate of vaccination. However, it was stuck in the acquisition of personal documents that expired on them, especially in the Ljubljana Administrative Unit, because from smaller administrative units, individuals reported that the procedures ran quickly and without unnecessary calls to an empty, ten- and multi-day waiting period and later to settle matters. The proposer shall ensure that new solutions can be used from 1. 1. 2022. A qualified digital certificate for signing public administration documents will be available for another five years. Social Democrats would remind us that there is a large proportion of older people among us who do not find the best use of newer technologies. With the possibility of authorising access to digital certificates to another person, we are also, of course, also carrying on responsibility and the possibility of abuse. The proposed law cannot be supported by the Social Democrats, as we estimate that for people an important law should be prepared by the Government with greater precision and care. In fact, it's about trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Ms Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Good-bye! In the introductions in Levica, we welcome the decision of the Ministry of Public Administration by special law to address the problem of electronic identity, which has been dispersed in several existing regulations. That is what the current situation is forcing us to do. The covida-19 epidemic has shown how our self-isolation due to the health conditions of the forces in regulating emergency remote operations, from work at home to handling administrative matters in administrative units. The extension of the use of electronic identity is intended to overcome such obstacles. However, new ways of regulating electronic identity also raise new business security issues. Undoubtedly, it is the use of technologies that will ensure a high level of security, but no safety is 100 per cent. In Levika, we are convinced that only the practice of using electronic identity will show what dangers are involved. In particular, we point to the potential theft of electronic identity, which can cause great harm to both the individual or the individual who is the victim of this place, as well as to the State, or may cause other forms of damage, such as economic activity. Adoption of the law of all these risks will not solve. Much more important will be the education of users of electronic identity to act self-protectively. We therefore expect the Ministry to make more efforts to promote the safe use of electronic identity, but the risk of the safe use of electronic identity does not come from individuals or organised criminal organisations alone, it also comes from a country that can abuse its supervisory function if it wants to. The fact is that political elites who have control of the country can take advantage of this power. The electronic identity of an individual may be issued in the future on any additional medium, such as a mobile phone, a smart USB key, a block chaining platform and so on, or also on existing electronic documents, such as a health insurance card, a residence permit and so on. This will require much greater caution and the ability of the State to make such a system work. A fiasco with an electronic certificate for vaccinated and overcrowded at the time of the covida-19 epidemic, for example, shows what happens if an incompetent government is running processes that are not a match for them. The identity in this case is not electronic, but for the time being, it appears to remain analogous, sent via plain mail to our mailboxes. Fortunately, the implementation of this law will soon pass to another government. If the implementation of the law demonstrates shortcomings in the provisions of this Act, it will certainly need to be corrected accordingly. We won't object to the law in the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u154	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Respectable and esteemed assembly! There is still much work to be done in the area of digitisation of public administration in terms of optimisation, simplification of processes, rational use of public funds and provision of better services. We are advocating a single entry point through which all public administration services would be available to citizens. The use of information and communication technologies not only facilitates the implementation of procedures but also reduces the required time and costs of citizens and businesses in administrative matters. The website allows the management of administrative requirements directly from the office or the home seat, which eliminates transport costs and the necessary time to arrive at the office. The Republic of Slovenia introduced Regulation 910/2014/EU, which entered into force on 17 September 2014, into its legal order in July 2016 by implementing Regulation (EU) No 910/2014/EU on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC. At the same time, much of the existing legislation in the field of electronic commerce has become obsolete and obsolete. Since the Republic of Slovenia wants to regulate the issue of electronic identification means, we need a new law on electronic identification and trust services, which will contain a specific national legal regime for trust services, where the regulation, of course, permits this, regulates the area of electronic identification, repeals the outdated content of the rules and adapts them more appropriately to European regulations in the current state of the market. Slovenia does not want to be lagging behind in this area, and since 2007 activities have been under way to regulate electronic identity. Christian Democrats support the proposal of the Law on Electronic Identification and Trust Services, which will introduce a single identifier based on a tax number for natural persons or business entities in electronic commerce with a view to a single number of electronic identification. The following draft law sets out the personal electronic identity in the Republic of Slovenia, which is used to identify electronic commerce with public sector bodies. The individual shall have only one personal electronic identity, but may have several means of electronic identification to demonstrate this identity. A personal electronic identity shall be used by means of an electronic identification tool for cross-border electronic commerce, the acquisition of a personal electronic identity shall not be compulsory, it may be obtained by a person who is six years of age or more and shall last for a maximum of 10 years. Currently, three means of identification are operationally envisaged, namely a digital certificate on a biometric identity card with high and low levels of reliability, a virtual electronic identity based on a SMSPASS solution, and in the future, an electronic identification tool can be issued on any added medium, such as a mobile phone, a smart USB key, a block chaining platform and so on. The issuer of electronic identification means shall also provide the private electronic service provider with the possibility of using an information solution for the use of electronic identification means and the possibility of verifying the number of electronic identification. Christian Democrats in the field of public administration will pay particular attention to the introduction of new possibilities for the use of modern technologies. We will advocate a systematic, gradual, combined remote deployment of work using information and communication technologies for those jobs in public administration that allow this option to work. We live during the fourth industrial revolution, digitalisation is a pervasive phenomenon. Because of new technologies, we communicate differently, we work differently, we live differently. All these changes require an update of all processes and systems surrounding us. The new business models are changing the global economy, so the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will support the development of legislation in the field of digitisation. In developing this area, however, we would also like to see a slightly greater role for the private sector. The NSI Group will support the proposal for a law on electronic identification and trust services, as the novel is a step forward compared to the current regulation. Only by developing this area can we become an even more competitive country in today's globalised society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Vice President. All in attendance have a very nice greeting! Today we are considering the proposal for a Law on Electronic Identification and Trust Services, which, in conjunction with the eIDAS Regulation, provides a national legal regime for the field of trust services and arrangements for the issuance of national electronic identity. The new eIDAS regulation regulates the concept of electronic identity and electronic signature, which we have not yet separated in the Republic of Slovenia. The issue of digital certificates for electronic signature is based on a new trust service. The Law on Electronic Identification and Trust Services will provide national legal arrangements for the field of services, including the issue of a digital certificate and an electronic signature certificate. By adopting the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia will allow the inclusion of electronic identity in two means of electronic identification on a new biometric identity card, allowing citizens to have the electronic identity of a high level of trust and also the business of a personal ID card in the procedures in which we now use the health insurance card. Due to its legal validity, technological design and security mechanisms, the biometric identity card is suitable for the issuance of an electronic identification tool at the highest level of reliability, allowing its holders to access, so to speak, all public sector electronic services throughout the European Union's internal market. For this reason, the Republic of Slovenia will apply for a new biometric identity card for cross-border e-commerce, following a series of countries that have also notified their electronic identification schemes on the basis of national identity cards for this purpose. The adoption of the law will also make it possible to notify its electronic identification scheme for cross-border operations and thus enable citizens to operate across borders within the European Union. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we particularly welcome this solution because we believe that this is a key condition for exploiting the development potential of electronic commerce for further development of the digital economy and society within the framework of the internal market of the European Union. At the same time, we are also aware of the remaining positive effects of the bill's proposal, such as the reduction of administrative barriers in certain e-commerce procedures and the decommissioning of employees in administrative units, since in many cases we will be able to avoid the procurement process and the visit of administrative units itself. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that it is high time for the Republic of Slovenia to carry out intensive digitisation activities, i.e. for efficient e-commerce, both for Slovenian citizens and for public administration, as well as for business operators. We believe that the proposal for the Law on Electronic Identification and Trust Services follows all principles, and that is why we will also support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Andrej Reich, will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u158	Dear Vice President, guests, colleagues and colleagues! The eIDAS Regulation, which regulates trust services, became directly applicable in 2016. The Regulation provides a common basis for secure electronic interaction between citizens, businesses and state authorities and its main purpose is to strengthen confidence in electronic transactions and trust services. Electronic identification shall include a type of data by which an individual or a legal person demonstrates his or her identity. The draft law will allow the Republic of Slovenia to notify its electronic identification scheme for cross-border business, thus enabling Slovenian citizens to operate across borders. The bill is also linked to the Personal Card Act, since a new biometric card will make it possible to access public sector services in the internal market of the European Union as an electronic identification tool. In the SAB, we ask ourselves about the appropriateness of the age limit set for obtaining electronic identification. The proposal provides that an electronic identity may be acquired by a person who is six years old. Therefore, why is the proposed arrangement not in line with the Personal Card Act, where the issuing of a ID card has been established by means of electronic identification since the age of 12 years? In the SAB we support digitisation, and we agree that Slovenia must also stay in line with time, with development in this area, and how important it is that this is also followed by legislation. Electronic commerce greatly facilitates business between companies, public authorities and citizens. However, this is a sensitive area of personal data protection and it is therefore important to ensure a high level of reliability. New technologies bring certain risks. However, a high level of confidence in electronic communication and identification is possible when an electronic identification tool is issued in accordance with certain standards and procedures and appropriate controls must also be provided to prevent abuses. For this reason, I must also touch on the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, which warned that the explanations of the articles do not largely meet the standard which requires a clear explanation of the individual articles which give rise to the content and purpose of the proposed laws. The principle of clarity and certainty of regulations is one of the principles of the rule of law that must be taken into account when adopting legislation. Otherwise legal certainty may be impaired. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Electronic commerce and electronic signature were legally regulated in Slovenia in 2000 by the adoption of the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature. This law has laid down the conditions for the issue and use of electronic signatures and certificates, the legal validity of electronic documents and electronic signatures, the infrastructure of the certifying authorities and so on. 20 years ago, no one could have imagined the dimension and development of digital technology, as today we are having a hard time imagining that most of the applications that we will be using in 10 years are not invented at all. Electronic commerce has become a way of private and public life, covering electronic banking, insurance, marketing and trading, teaching, public sector business, consulting and distance auctions. The degree of development and use of digital services is becoming an indispensable element of the competitive advantages of individual countries in the global economy. The development of technologies and electronic services thus presents new challenges in the regulation, in particular how to overtake all new circumstances within existing legislation. The proposal for a new law on electronic identification and trust services constitutes compliance with the European legal order. The regulation implemented in the proposed law includes two content sets. The first part covers electronic identification where the Regulation does not interfere with electronic identity management systems and related infrastructures of Member States, but merely lays down the conditions under which Member States recognise means of electronic identification of natural and legal persons included in the notified scheme of another country. The bill thus regulates the way towards obtaining electronic identity, allowing or facilitating e-access, procedures and business in both Slovenia and the European Union, and provides for modern, simple and secure electronic identification. The second set covers six trust services, where the European Regulation regulates the entire area and lays down rules for trust services: electronic signatures, electronic stamps, electronic time stamps, electronic recommended delivery services, the storage of qualified electronic signatures and stamps, the certification of the security of electronic signatures and stamps and the certification of websites. Digital identity is today's reality, and its perspectives are all-encompassing. The epidemic only showed in a few weeks where we lack digitalised services and what we could do to make them more widespread, safe, efficient and user-friendly. In the Desus Group, we support the bill. But we remind you of today's digital and digital tomorrow, which poses a major challenge for the elderly, often even an insurmountable obstacle. For illustration only, there are now more than 54 thousand 500 people living in Slovenia who are over 85 years old. Demographic change, which will further change the relationship in the population structure in the future, requires the fullest possible consideration and concrete action at all levels of social development, including in the field of electronic mobility or the digitisation of society. The involvement of older people in these processes is therefore of paramount importance. When introducing a digital way of life, however, we need to introduce digitalisation as an optional way of doing business or lifestyle, not as a categorical, binding or only possible way of doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SNS Group, Mr Dušan Šiško will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a novelty is in some way substantively linked to the proposed amendment to the Personal Card Act, as this law, which we have before us, must apply to the issue of a new biometric ID card. The latter shall determine the issuing of an identity by a State on one or more electronic identification means. National legal arrangements will be provided for the area of trust services, which will be brought into our legal order by a European regulation in this area. In the Slovenian National Party, we are inclined to allow citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to be provided with electronic identification concerning access to all public sector services in the internal market of the European Union as well as cross-border operations. We must not forget that in Slovenia, mostly qualified digital certificates issued by the Ministry, Mail, Bank and others have been used for the purposes of user access to e-services for 20 years. We note that the usefulness or non-use of these services is a weak point. They're mostly used by younger generations because they're more skilled than anything else. Despite the numerous comments made by the various stakeholders, the proposal will have positive consequences for the functioning of the public administration in the economic, social and social sphere. The register of holders of electronic identification means shall set out in 14 points a set of data to be transmitted by the holder. We have thought about how it is with those individuals or older people who do not have a computer at home, a smart phone, and not an email. A smaller set of data, or just those that are really mandatory and urgent, would make sense in order to avoid possible abuses and fraud in the future. We must be aware that the area of security, trust and trust is a very sensitive area. With regard to the work experience of employees in qualified trust service providers in the field of trust services or related services, and also when it comes to an appropriate advisory contract with a legal person, we do not feel that there is enough work experience for at least two years due to the complexity of the area. The main flaws, such as the recent lack of access to administrative units, the busy telephone lines, should be addressed as soon as possible and people should be motivated to use e-services from public administration. It will also be necessary to inform users as soon as possible about the new system of use. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the opportunities offered in the palm of our hands with the development of technology are not being used enough, as we must not forget that we are living in the fourth industrial revolution. We appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Strategic Council for Digitalisation, to work actively to make future services more user-friendly despite their new concerns and doubts. In the Slovenian National Party we estimate that the amendment of the law brings many positive benefits, with which we can certainly count on raising the level of digitisation in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to public procurement laws and amendments. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and I give the floor to the State Secretary of Mags in order to further explain the proposal. Peter Gersak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and other participants! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in session 22. 4. 2021 adopted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Hereinafter, I will refer to the bill with ZJN-3B. There were broad public debates, a second amendment, the first amendment proposed by the MPs of the National Assembly, the first amendment of the law prepared by the Government after 2015 when the law was adopted. Just because the law does not change too often, it has allowed the institutes to be tested well in practice. Now, after six years of application of this law, there has also been sufficient time to test and to conclude that certain institutes need to be reformed, especially simplification due to the practice that has been established at that time, as well as the recent epidemic. That is why this law also incorporates some of the solutions brought by intervention legislation. At the same time today, when we have fully switched to electronic communications in public procurement, some tasks are simply no longer appropriate and need to be regulated. Of course, it must be made clear that the public procurement system primarily determines the law of the European Union, where the Slovenian legislature is extremely limited in the legislative regulation of the system, and therefore, in addition to legislative solutions, it is also necessary to seek a different form of legislation. For example, professionalisation is one of them, while the ministry is improving the electronic public procurement system towards complete digital transformation, which will unify procurement and increase competitiveness. If I return to the bill before us. With greater transparency, changes to the ZJN-3B bring greater efficiency and flexibility to the procurement process. However, with the proposed amendments and additions, the law introduces some novelties and exceptions to the promotion, regionalisation and consumption of Slovenian goods, especially for contracting authorities with greater responsibility and added offences, which allow for slightly more room for manoeuvre, particularly when it comes to contracts of small value and municipalities. Here I must also point out that transparency remains ensured in certain solutions that will encourage and accelerate the participation of contracting authorities with the local economy. It is only to allow more flexible and efficient implementation of procedures, which is the most obvious in this segment, that the system is excessively rigid. The bill increases the thresholds for registration orders in order to accelerate procurement and facilitate the balancing of orders to the local economy. These thresholds are followed by intervention legislation. There is also an increase in the thresholds for the use of the low value procurement procedure, which is a fully transparent process and allows greater flexibility and faster implementation of the procedure. In order to simplify the procurement, certain exceptions are added, while legal services are subject to lower procurement thresholds as there is no reason not to apply the procurement rules to these services. On the other hand, transparency in procedures is increasing as the bill provides that all documentation must be published only on the public procurement portal and in all procedures, including in procedures negotiated without publication, a decision on the award of the contract will have to be published. In the case of the use of electronic procurement, however, the law introduces some solutions in cases where the system is not operational. The law also addresses some of the very practical requirements established in the past by practice, for example, that tenderers will no longer have to submit further statements of impunity, and the law introduces a new discretionary right of the contracting authority to eliminate unusually low offers, which is virtually impossible in practice today. In view of what has been said to you, honourable Members and honourable Members, I propose that you adopt the proposed amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you, once again, for your word and a nice hello! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 24th meeting, on 16 November 2016. 6. 2021 As a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In its opening statement, the State Secretary pointed out that the procurement system is fully governed by EU law and that we have very little room for manoeuvre in order to do so, and the proposed amendments introduce some exceptions that will allow for greater regionalisation, promotion and consumption of Slovenian goods. She therefore briefly presented those solutions allowing other contracting entities more room for manoeuvre and warned that certain thresholds for contracts were increasing. It was also true in the debate that these thresholds were the most debated, namely, the opposition mainly disputed that this border was being raised, while, for example, a coalition member pointed out that such orders were the majority, and outlined how these things were now working. The SDS pointed out that active money should be used and managed transparently and that it should be taken care not to restrict measures by damaging public funds, so raising orders on its own is not controversial, otherwise it could be even larger, and this would not have a significant impact on anything that is a nuisance in public procurement stories. Finally, the Secretary of State highlighted the possibility of national execution of low-value orders up to the EU thresholds, including construction, which means that there is no need to reduce transparency in any way, and will therefore be much more flexible, efficient and therefore rational. Finally, the Committee adopted the amendments of SDS, NSI and SMC to Articles 15, 28 and 32 and did not vote on the amendments of the Levica Group on Articles 2, 3, 8 and 9. He then voted on the entire text of the bill and adopted it with 11 votes in favour and 2 against. The text thus supplemented is attached and adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Public procurement in Slovenia is still persistently stigmatized, as if it were a gray zone in which the places of public money, corruption, clientism, camaraderie and what is also a negative sign are happening, and at the same time there are constant calls to be made to amend the Public Procurement Act and we will solve all problems. However, public procurement is not such a crime, even though there are variations in this area as elsewhere. The Public Procurement Act is not as distasteful as it is to make an impression on the public; last but not least, the legal text is almost a copy of the European Directive. If all Europe can live with this, it is strange that this would not work for us. Indeed, the procurement system must be public, transparent and transparent — is that so? On paper, yes, in practice, maybe a little less. During the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, we prepared amendments to the law to make the procurement even more effective, without the responsible bureaucratic cover. Most of the solutions that we have proposed are in this present text. In the List of Marjan Šarca, it is very important for us to empower those in the public sector who are engaged in procurement. Problems arise both because of poor knowledge of the legislation and because of the incompetence of contracting authorities who often fail to master the area they deal with. If we add bad censuses and wrong pricing and, on the other hand, agreement between tenderers and the appearance of a contracting entity, we have a recipe for damaging public finances in the execution of contracts. The European Union has drawn Slovenia's attention to the high proportion of contracts awarded through the negotiation procedure, i.e. without a call for tender. There are also safeguards against corruption, illicit bargaining between suppliers, particularly at local level and in state-owned enterprises, and therefore, in the Marjan Sarca List, we are held back until the thresholds for contracts are raised without a call for tender. The Council Recommendation on Slovenia’s national programme for 2019 drew Slovenia’s attention to the independent supervision of public procurement. As a particular risk, the EU Council highlighted public procurement at local level. It is true that there is greater flexibility, but at the same time no consideration has been given to strengthening the control of such orders. We miss that in marriage or at least the government's explanations. There is also too much appeal from craftsmen and entrepreneurs to ensure payment of subcontractors. It still happens to stay either unpaid or get paid with a great deal of delay. The last more rebuttal case is unpaid subcontractors in building a home of older citizens in Jursinci worth up to EUR 5 million. In the government of Marjana Šarc, we have listened to craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and with the amendment of the law we intend to reintroduce compulsory payments to subcontractors, there is no such thing as this text, which is strange, since this government places great emphasis on the support of craft and entrepreneurship. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we will not oppose the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, but we believe that this law is a missed opportunity for the benefit of craft and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u169	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The area of public procurement is regulated at European Union level and Slovenia has already adapted to the European acquis in the pre-accession period to the European Union. The applicant indicated that the OECD Republic of Slovenia is classified as a country with good and transparent legislation. In addition, we are the only Member State of the European Union that has a complaints system within public procurement digitised. With the proposed amendment of the law, applicants are pursuing the goal of greater efficiency of public procurement and greater transparency. Respected, according to the OECD's paper assessment, we are already meeting this, so we are missing an improvement in the implementation of the law, as we are constantly facing complaints, affairs and anything that makes it impossible to implement infrastructure projects quickly and effectively, as a rule, financially more difficult projects. However, it was no better to purchase the necessary protective equipment during the epidemic last year. Given that the government has been threatening a new fourth wave of the epidemic for a month, the Social Democrats expect warehouses with protective equipment to be full and equipment purchased at substantially lower, affordable prices. The proposed novelty is aimed at promoting the local and regional economy and agriculture. The news and exceptions brought by the novelty relate to the promotion and consumption of Slovenian goods. It would highlight the increase in the value of the use of low-value orders up to the limits set by the European Public Procurement Directive. Local public procurement and self-sustainment should in some way be further supported by experience during the pandemic. I believe that the issue of non-payments to subcontractors should also be highlighted here. Protectors in marriage must be right to prevent corrupt risks. As in previous novels, the Social Democrats point out that the procurement system must be sufficiently clear so that the implementation of this system does not give rise to a variety of interpretations that would serve as a basis for greater corrupt risks. Social Democrats will not oppose the proposed amendment to the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good-bye! The problem of the public procurement system is linked to transparency and is linked to corruption. In particular, low-value orders are problematic, which are already extremely opaque in one way or another, and in general, the biggest problem is the adaptation of tendering conditions and the associated corruption risks. Problems do not arise in cases where the procedure is carried out on the basis of the rules in force, but where the rules in force are played or even infringed. This problem cannot be solved only by a new law. It is of particular concern that the government, with a novelty, proposes changes that will further increase corruption risks. The increase in the thresholds for low-value contracts has already been established in anti-korona last year and there was no serious justification for this at the time. This situation is now being sustained in the law of the mother. The International Transparency International has recently published a survey between 40,000 citizens and citizens from 27 Member States of the European Union on how we feel about corruption in our country. People have asked whether corruption is increasing in their country and 51% of the population of Slovenia thinks that corruption has increased in our country in the last 12 months. A greater proportion was, say, detected only in Cyprus. In Slovenia, almost two thirds, 66% of respondents also estimated that citizens are afraid of retaliation when reporting corruption, which is 76% for Cyprus and Croatia with 72% of the highest share in the European Union. Anxiety, but the government obviously has nothing to worry about. Do not hesitate to consider such a devastating state of spirit in our society, for such a high degree of mistrust the Government cynically proposes loosening instead of tightening the rules of public procurement. The situation in Slovenia, as we can see, is by no means such that the rules on public procurement are relaxed, but that they should be consistently implemented. This is all the more important now that covida-19 measures have increased consumption by the State and local communities to combat the effects of the covida epidemic. And what does breaking the rules really mean? The fact that, due to the increase in the thresholds for small contracts, a large number of purchases of goods and services will be made without invitations to tender. That corruption risk will therefore be enormous. Especially since we are dealing with a government whose acquisition of protective equipment has been nicely said to be highly controversial, so much so that the shadow of corruption has fallen upon it. We won't support the marriage in the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for amendments and the supplementation of the Public Procurement Act that we are considering today simplifies the regulation of the EU’s procurement procedure under the EU’s borders, these are low-value contracts, removes certain administrative obligations on the part of contracting authorities, for example, simplified reporting in framework agreements, and slightly changes the regime towards allowing for greater flexibility. According to the proposal for a new law, the thresholds and thresholds for the use of the low-value procurement procedure are slightly raised while, in order to ensure greater transparency, the publication of lists of registered contracts on the public procurement portal is regulated. The proposed changes are based on the knowledge that public procurement must be flexible and effective while ensuring transparency, competitiveness and accountability for potential abuses. In the fact that procurement is regulated by EU public procurement directives, Member States do not have much room for manoeuvre. Where it is allowed to regulate the system more flexibly, the proposed amendments and additions to promote the local and regional economy and agriculture introduce some novelties and exceptions that will allow for greater promotion, regionalisation and consumption of Slovenian goods. Schools, kindergartens, hospitals, nursing homes and other public food establishments spend about half a billion euros a year. Traditional Slovenian crops and products are many times more quality than imported, but public institutions are prevented from buying only locally produced food. In Nova Slovenija, we support the principle that food can be ordered as much as possible from the provisions of the public procurement system, thereby increasing the share of locally produced food in public institutions. The proposed amendments to the law also make it more flexible to allow for corrections and complementarity of offers. This is particularly important in view of the fact that the contracting authority may request further clarifications, for example in the case of an extremely low offer, which was not possible under the existing law. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, President. What a lovely greeting to all present! Today we are considering the amendment and additions to the Public Procurement Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. This is a second amendment to the law and brings the additions that have proved necessary in practice both during the epidemic and in the past experience of applying the law itself. The changes thus increase the transparency of the procurement, while allowing for more flexible and efficient procurement, especially in the case of lower-value orders. The public procurement system is primarily governed by European Union law and therefore the Slovenian legislator is extremely limited in the regulatory regulation of the system, so it is also necessary to seek a different approach in addition to legislative solutions. The amendments to the Public Procurement Act bring greater efficiency and, with more flexible and efficient public procurement, a high degree of transparency is ensured and competitiveness is pursued. With the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, in order to promote the local and regional economy, including agriculture, a number of innovations and exceptions are introduced which will allow for greater promotion, regionalisation and consumption of Slovenian goods, and in particular for contracting entities with greater responsibility and additional offences, allow for slightly more room for manoeuvre, especially when it comes to contracts of small value and municipalities. It should also be stressed that transparency remains ensured in certain solutions that will encourage and accelerate the participation of contracting authorities with the local economy. It is only to allow for a more flexible and efficient implementation of procedures, which is precisely in this segment that we most often listen to the evidence that the system is excessively rigid. In order to speed up the procurement process and facilitate the accessibility of orders to the local economy, the thresholds for registration orders are increased, and these limits are followed by intervention laws. It also increases building limits by applying a low-value procurement procedure, which is a fully transparent process, allowing greater flexibility and faster implementation of the procedure. In order to simplify the procurement, certain exceptions are added, while legal services are subject to lower procurement thresholds as there is no reason not to apply the procurement rules to these services. On the other hand, transparency in procedures is increasing, the proposal of the law provides that all documentation should be published only on the public procurement portal and in all procedures, including in negotiated procedures without publication, a decision on the publication of the contract will have to be published. In the case of the use of electronic procurement, however, the law introduces some solutions in cases of failure of the system itself. We are aware of the importance of rapid and effective public procurement and of the proposed changes as positive, and we will therefore support the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u178	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The substance of the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Public Procurement Act is to raise the thresholds for contracts subject to the Public Procurement Act. In other words, it is a matter of increasing the range of public procurements that will fall out of the procurement procedure under the UNP-3. The thresholds in the general area rise from 20,000 euros to 40,000 and to 80,000 for construction. There is also a threshold for the publication of a contract in the Official Journal of the European Union for local authorities and a threshold for the application of the low-value procurement procedure. The proposed amendment is justified by the government's increased transparency of the public procurement system. The proposal should also contribute to greater efficiency and transparency of public procurement. Although all of this sounds good on the first ball, we cannot agree with the SAB in the first round. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is a registering order, and these are the ones for which there is no statutory procurement procedure, which has been identified as the most problematic. In addition, they represent the largest share of public procurement. The proposed solutions will further increase the number of public procurements and, as a result, will increase the risk of corruption. Let's see what numbers we're talking about. From the beginning of 2019 to the end of 2020, there were public contracts which would fall under the new criteria between registration contracts, 783. Their total value, however, was more than € 134 million. This proportion is far from negligible. We were also warned about the dangers posed by the law in question in Transparency International Slovenia and in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Thus, Transparency International stressed that, while existing procedures are primarily administrative burdens for contracting entities, they represent a certain safeguard against corruption risks and distortions of competition. In addition, no substantial arguments were presented to support the thesis that the currently set thresholds are too low. The disregarding of the rules for public procurement by local authorities is also not supported by strong arguments, especially when taking into account the findings of Transparency International, which suggest a lack of integrity in Slovenian local self-government. The fact is that the field of public procurement is subject to corruption risks all over the world, and there is no exception to Slovenia. I can easily claim that a huge amount of taxpayer money is leaking through public procurement in the pockets of the privileged. In recent years, the public procurement system has been subject to heated debates, in particular regarding transparency, prudent spending and corruption. In the SAB party, we advocate fast and transparent procurement procedures, but not at all costs. We are aware of the need for some changes in public procurement, such as public procurement in health. In the SAB Group, we have even called for an urgent meeting of the parliamentary committees and drew attention to anomalies that allow uncontrolled consumption of tax assets. Interestingly, on the day of the debate on weak public procurement points in health care, the coalition tabled a proposal for a novel to eliminate these anomalies. We wonder if it's just a coincidence, given the fact that the law was still open. In the SAB, we want changes to public procurement in the field of health, which will follow transparency and cost-effectiveness, proposed changes that will not bring any other than increasing corruption risks and will not be supported in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The procurement system is primarily governed by European Union law. Any national resolution of open cases is therefore limited by this framework. In Slovenia we initially built a system and public procurement institutions, then stabilized and internalized the European acquis, and now we are working on simplifying the system that we have hopelessly complicated. The management of public procurement is, in fact, the area of the fight for power, not the area of the work to be done. The need for better governance is a necessity, but it is relentlessly interfering with interests and habits. Depending on its importance and the urgency of the predictability of the rules and procedures as stable as it is, the legal arrangements for public procurement should be. Since 2000, when we adopted the Public Procurement Act, the novel has been amended 13 times. However, this is not a matter of less extensive nomotechnic changes, but most of them are important changes, especially for those who face direct public procurement procedures and must implement them. Liabilities shall be the bodies of the Republic of Slovenia, local community bodies and public funds, agencies, institutions, also public undertakings in the infrastructure field and other non-commitment entities where contracts subsidised or co-financed by contracting entities are met and certain conditions are met. The importance of public procurement is most evident from the following data for 2019. The value of the public contracts awarded this year amounted to EUR 5 billion and EUR 545 million. In 2019 public procurement accounts for almost 56 % of the budget expenditure of the Republic of Slovenia. The share of public contracts in 2019 was 11 and a half percent in gross domestic product and increased by one and a half percent year after year. Given the value of all contracts submitted, the value of those to be published on the public procurement portal or in the Official Journal of the European Union increased by more than 26 % compared to 2018 in 2019. The number of public procurement procedures carried out increased by a good 2 %. The fact is that the share of public procurement is constantly increasing that the area is constantly exposed to changes, including European rules, and in particular to constant adaptation to economic, social and political development. Key innovations in the 13th edition are: raising the thresholds for contracts in the general area for goods and services from EUR 20 000 to EUR 40 000 and for construction from EUR 40 000 to EUR 80 000; publication of all the documents on the public procurement portal and publication of all public procurement decisions, which will contribute significantly to a more transparent process; mandatory compliance with the so-called green procurement in the field of food supply, which will contribute to increasing the consumption of local crops. The procurement system also includes legal advice services for which a simplified method of procurement is envisaged. Public procurement represents a wide range of abuses where form is respected and it is used on hundreds of tricks to avoid meaning. Many repeals and transpositions are a practice that is not solely the responsibility of the tenderers but also of the remiss bureaucrats and commissions. In the Slovenian public procurement system, the logic of responsibility is abandoned to an extent. Public orders are a game of a cat with a mouse, with a cat not a vegetarian, but a predatory provider associated with a companion on the other side who earns and shares a profit with it. In such a system, responsibility, that criminal responsibility, whatever, is established by prevention. It is the one who makes the mistake and causes the damage, and it is by no means simply the responsibility of the highest officials. However, it is also particularly about the ability of state control mechanisms to operate. However, Members of the Desus Group will support the bill in the content presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you, President. Hello, everyone! The bill is moving in the right direction, as the changes increase flexibility, contributing to the flexibility and effectiveness of the public procurement system, while addressing certain uncertainties, dilemmas and shortcomings that have been shown during the application of the current law. In the Slovenian National Party, it seems to us that the most important change is that the limits for the application of the law in the general field are raised for goods, services and project competitions as well as for construction, precisely because of the operationality of public procurement. It seems to us that, say, up to 20,000 euros for road construction, other construction works do not need to be commissioned and that, on the basis of three offers, the mayor agrees on more than 8,000 euros. It was inanimate and absurd to say that for one pencil, for the rehabilitation of a few meters of road, weeds should wait for the invitation to tender. We are pleased that public food contracts will increase the possibility of cooperation with local producers and processors of Slovenian food or food. It is also mandatory to respect the objectives of green procurement in order to obtain, in a certain percentage, organic food or quality schemes, that our children in kindergartens, schools eat healthy, especially domestic, quality food and not those imported without food. The public procurement system at national level is being simplified so that, in all cases, it is possible to apply a procedure at national level, which is transparent and publicly published only on the Slovenian public procurement portal, while allowing the contracting authority to participate in the negotiations. With a view to greater transparency and traceability, we welcome the amendment to remove the possibility of publishing documentation on individual other websites. Furthermore, in terms of rationality and time, it is important that the contracting authority can overlook obvious or non-essential errors on its own. It is also acceptable that only the contracting authority, with the written consent of the tenderer, may correct the account errors it finds in the examination and evaluation of tenders. As a novelty, an offence is introduced when the contracting authority does not notify candidates and tenderers in a way that the decision to award a public contract is made public on the public procurement portal, as we know that the service, the communication of participants through other channels is substantially prolonged, which is not what we want. The notification of subcontractors is important because they have the right to request a direct payment if they do not so require, but the main operator shall be obliged, after completion of the performance, to make his statement and the subcontractor’s declaration that they have all the obligations under the contract in question settled. In summary, the duty of payment discipline is of utmost importance. The new proposal thus provides for the punishment of the main contractor who does not inform the contracting authority of all subcontractors. The courts also point to the disproportionateity of the obligatory by-law sanction in relation to the gravity of the offence committed. The proposal is to provide for the most serious infringements of economic operators by the optional expression of the foreign sanction of exclusion from public procurement procedures, while at the same time allowing for a period of time within which the perpetrators are not only punished, but also preventing them from re-applying to the invitation to tender. We are in the Slovenian National Party to prevent major crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that, President. In April, a law on public procurement was introduced into the parliamentary procedure by the Government. The main solutions to the draft law relate to raising building thresholds up to EU thresholds allowing contracting entities to engage in negotiations, which can contribute to a greater cost-effectiveness of ordering. The thresholds in the general area are raised from EUR 20 000 to EUR 40 000 without VAT on goods and services and for construction from $40,000 to $80 000 without VAT. Legal services are also excluded from the set of social and other specific services and will be subject to a threshold of 40 000. The threshold was already raised by anti-Korona law and proved useful. The publication of the complete documentation is only published through the public procurement portal, which means greater transparency and traceability of the documentation. Four new exceptions are added to the application of the public procurement rules, namely those contracts awarded for resale or rental, for protocol gifts or other forms of the promotion of Slovenia and for public food contracts. In particular, with the last exception, cooperation with local producers of Slovenian food will increase, which means that public institutions, schools, kindergartens, nursing homes will be much easier to order food from surrounding farmers. This further encourages the purchase of Slovenian food. The law also adequately solves a number of bureaucratic nonsense. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Zlatko Ratej, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u186	Dear Members, honourable Members of the National Assembly, distinguished participants and participants in the meeting! The Earth Book is a public book. It is intended to describe and publicly publish data on property rights and legal facts relating to them. As a central city and an instrument for the protection of private property, it is one of the foundations of our social and economic regulation. The regulatory framework governing its functioning should therefore be stable and the intervention should be considered. The bill before you fully follows this approach. These are the first major amendments and additions to the Land Book Act in the last 10 years, but they do not bring about conceptual changes, but are necessary and regular updates of the legal framework to ensure the smooth and coordinated functioning of the system. A set of interventions in the current legal text can be divided into two groups. The first includes changes and additions resulting from laws adopted at the time of the last major novel, which either require appropriate additions to the Land Book Act or are harmonisations that are not necessary for the functioning of the system, but ensure compliance with the legal order. The law, which requires adjustments to the Land Book Act, is a Real Law Code or its last year's novel. It brought into the Slovenian legal order an instrument of related real estates, whose application was delayed until 1 July 2021 by transitional provisions. With this deferred deadline, the legislator wanted to enable what we are here for today at the beginning of application. These are the corresponding adjustments to the Land Book Act, which will enable this new real estate position to be incorporated into the land book and to apply the undeniable benefits that it brings to the owners of the property that will decide to use it. This reason or reason for the amendment of the Land Book Act is also the only one that makes this novel mandatory, since there are no other reasons, such as the implementation of Constitutional Court judgments or the transfer of European law requirements. The second group of interventions to the legal text is the result of a thorough reflection and consultation with key operators of the Land Book Act, i.e. with courts, notaries, lawyers and other professional public. I thank all stakeholders here again for this. During the key interventions of this second group, I should point out the provisions relating to the digitisation of the procedure prior to the authorisation of the land register, i.e. the procedure before the Financial Administration. The Novela provides the basis for the notary to send the contract electronically and also to take over the tax certificate along this same route. This will allow this part of the procedure to be fully digitised and it will be possible to move faster in order to save the parties an additional path and time. The law also lays down a series of other solutions aimed at facilitating the parties to reconcile the land register with the actual one. As an example, I should like to point out a new rule on the deletion of rights that stop the death of persons. Now it will no longer be necessary to look for death certificates if it appears from the birth anniversary that it is not possible for this person to still be alive. Let me stress, this is only about the rights that stop a person's death, not about the rights that are inherited. The provisions governing access to so-called protected alerts shall also be amended in such a way as to allow State authorities direct access to these data, only on condition that they need to do so in order to carry out their duties and powers. The law is also continuing the direction outlined in the amendment to the Judicial Procedure Act to extend intervention with the Supreme Court to all legal areas. This allows the Supreme Court to develop land law in this area by, through the audit, deciding on important legal issues in this area and ensuring the uniform application of law. The law also contains solutions designed to protect creditors and to prevent them from having access to the order of ownership in the event that enforcement takes place over the creditor or that the owner is already prevented from having only possession of the property right. The other amendments introduced by the draft law are related to the terminology adjustments of the Regulation in the Law on State Advocates and the related amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. The provisions governing the registration of illegal construction under the Construction Law have also been improved. Dear Members and Members, we believe that these sets of amendments and additions constitute a necessary and appropriate intervention in the text of the law. The debate on the working body showed that the bill had been prepared appropriately and that the amendments adopted had been further improved since they addressed all the comments raised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as well as the comments made by the Supreme Court. The same applies to most of the other comments and views forwarded to the Justice Committee [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u187	Please finish, Mr. Secretary of State. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u188	The amended bill before you is thus the result of the combined work and efforts of the applicant, members of the home working body, the national constituency services and the professional public. We estimate that this is a good proposal for a law, and we suggest that you support it. Let me thank you in this place for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the report of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Justice considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act at its 28th session. 6. 2021 as a parent working body. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of Justice and the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure and the letters of the Supreme Court, the Notary Chamber of Slovenia and Dr. Nina Plaže and Prof. Renata Vrenčur. Mr Zlatko Ratej, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, presented the main solutions to the bill, which does not make conceptual changes, but responds to changes and additions to other laws, particularly the Real Law. Its novel A abolished the real right to land debt, while novel B introduced innovations in the area of property rights or on the floor in relation to so-called related properties and properties in common use that cannot be brought to life without the changes being considered. In order to comply with the rule of law and to ensure legal certainty, the proposed law also brings compliance with the provisions of the Law on State Bar, the Law on Judicial Procedure, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Construction Law. The proposed law also provides improvements to the system in response to feedback from operators or users of the law, courts, notaries, lawyers and administrative authorities, which will help to improve efficient and safer operations and the operation of the land book. At the presentation of their written legal opinion, the representative of the legislative and legal service, Katarina Kralj, said that all comments were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the three coalition groups. The representative of the Bojana Potočan Council of State presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which unanimously supports the bill. She said that, at the time of the hearing, they had pointed out the comments made by the professional public on paragraphs 16, 22 and 24 of the draft law, which had been given appropriate explanations by the proposer or the corresponding amendments had been tabled. The representative of the Supreme Prosecutor, Erika Pajntar, expressed support for the proposed law and identified herself for the proposed changes regarding exceptional remedies. It stated that it supports all legislative solutions that allow equal access for parties to the proceedings before the Supreme Court through an approved audit in all civil proceedings, including in the land-booking procedure, as this strengthens predictability of decision-making and legal certainty. The requirement for the protection of the legality cannot replace this, since the State Prosecutor does not represent the interests of the parties, but rather is the Ombudsman of public interest. In the debate, Members welcomed the proposed law and the amendments tabled, which bring a safer and more effective functioning of the land book. They expressed some thoughts and questions related to land debt, to which the representatives of the proposer replied. Hereafter, the Committee, by adopting all the amendments tabled and all the articles, jointly drafted the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted and forms an integral part of the report of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u192	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a new law that is of a highly professional nature. The proposal thus brings solutions and improvements to practice and proposed by users, as well as some other laws, such as the Real Law, the Construction Law and some others. This proposal lays down the rules for the entry of individual related properties and complements the rules for the entry of a general common part of several buildings on the floor. On the basis of the 2013 amendments to the Real Law Code, the proposal repeals the provisions on land debt as it no longer exists. In accordance with the amendment to the Law on State Lawyers, the State Attorney's Office replaces the State Attorney's Office, and the novel also brings updates and improvements to the provisions relating to the electronic operation of notaries, tax authorities and land registers as regards the proof of payment of taxes. Thus these procedures will take place in an informed manner and the parties will no longer have to carry the original documents physically to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, the proposal provides for the legal admissibility of the revision of land-booking procedures and compliance with the provisions on the revision of the Judicial Procedure Act and several other solutions. The original proposal also contained a number of controversial articles, such as Articles 16, 22 and 24, which envisaged the use of the new legal institution, a record of an exceptional remedy against the decision on registration and its consequences. These articles were problematic both by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Supreme Court and some other legal experts, but later these articles were either deleted or amended accordingly by amendments. On the Committee on Justice, the representative of the Supreme Court supported the amendment as it supports all legislative solutions that allow equal access to the Supreme Court's proceedings in the Land Book Procedure, as this strengthens the predictability of decision-making as well as legal certainty. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also said on the committee responsible that their comments had been duly addressed by amendments. On the basis of this, the Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u194	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The Land Book is crucial to legal certainty of legal entities in all economic and social relations relating to real estate rights where participants rely on the data contained in the Land Book. Transparency of the land register is important not only because of the legal traffic of real estate but also for better transparency over the property of citizens. Only real and relevant data are a good basis for future taxation of real estates, with which owners of larger real estate or more properties can make a fair contribution to the state treasury and thus enable more housing under public housing funds. But the amendment of the law that we have before us mainly regulates non-compliance with other laws, improves the way in which common and auxiliary premises are entered in the floor owners and introduces new procedural options, including the possibility of an extraordinary remedy such as audit, which will contribute to uniting practice and greater legal certainty. It is therefore a number of legal and technical solutions to improve the procedures and transparency of the land book. Some of the solutions have also come up with more criticism, but it is likely that in practice the best way to show whether the provisions adopted in the law, which will now be confirmed, are appropriate or not. The numerous amendments of the coalition parties, resulting from critical comments, have already become a permanent feature of the legislative work in the current mandate of the National Assembly. This is because laws are fasting because they are being prepared without a proper public debate, or because there are too few comments within the public debate. This points to some convulsion mainly in the work of the current government, and also to panic when today's current government wants to adopt as many laws as possible, even though it begins by drafting a law with various shortcomings, which it will then draw attention to in the debate in the National Assembly. At least in this case, however, we can assess that the most important comments in some sense have only been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u196	Say good-bye to everyone again! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act is the first major amendment to the law in the last 10 years. The main purpose is to supplement the existing law with rules on new and additional options for registration of property and related properties. This enables the implementation of the Real Law Code. The establishment of these rules should be carried out within the time limit laid down in the Code for the entry into force by 1 July 2021, otherwise these provisions will not be implemented. Consistency with the amendment of the Real Law is required in the field of provisions governing certain issues of property. The additions to the novel provide that a particular part of the building or property intended for the common use of the floor owners of two or more buildings on the floor or the total use of the floor owners of one or more buildings and owners of one or more properties shall be treated as a common part thereof, which is in their co-ownership. The proposal for a novelty for this case provides that, under the registration provisions, the floor property shall be treated in the same way as has been the case so far for other common parts. The novelty reorders the entry of individual real estates both in the main and in the auxiliary real estate. The aforementioned novel of the Real Law Code has also allowed the total property to be shared for the common use of floor owners of two or more buildings or the total use of floor owners of one building or more buildings and owners of one or more properties, such as a multi-block parking lot and a total of one or more residential houses. Such a property is treated as a common part of these buildings or houses and is in co-ownership. In this case, too, entry into the land book is regulated. All provisions relating to land debt shall be deleted from the law after a new provision and the transitional provision shall determine the application of the law in force so far in respect of those land debts still in the Land Book. It replaces state and municipal law with state and municipal law in accordance with the Law on State Attorneys. In order to harmonise the Law on State Lawyerry, an agreement concluded in a peaceful settlement of a dispute between a state lawyer and a counterparty is also included among the instruments underlying the book. Since the proposal for a new law for citizens allows for more transparent, simpler and, above all, more legally secure registrations of property on the ground and allows for the entry into force of the new real estate positions brought by the latest novels of the 2020 Real Law and follow the needs and developments in the real estate sector, we will support the New Slovenia proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings, Secretary of State, and another presence! The Earth Book is a public book in which real rights and also some bonds are entered. Today, we are deciding on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act, which do not bring about major conceptual changes, but mainly respond to the changes and additions to some of the laws that have taken place in the meantime, in particular the changes and most important additions to the Real Law. The latter also brought into the Slovenian legal order the Institute of related real estates. Since it also requires appropriate rules for the implementation of land register entries for these properties, it is also necessary to supplement the existing Land Book Act as mentioned above. The amendment of the law gives the possibility to introduce or improve solutions to this law, which are pointed out by users and by all others in bad practice or practice, which literally calls for certain improvements. The main objective of the amendments and the implementation of the Land Book Act is to lay down rules for the entry of related real estates, the entry of new real estate relations in the field of property and thus to enable the implementation of the Real Law in the work governing these relationships and relationships of individual parts of buildings or properties intended for the common use of multi-storey landowners in the property itself or the common use of floor building owners or multiple buildings in the essential property and property owners or more related properties. The changes are also related to the digitisation of the area before entry into the land book itself. This is mainly the area of taxation, so that these procedures can be computerised and that customers will no longer have to carry the original documents physically to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments or additions to the law also relate to various reliefs for parties regulating the status quo in the Land Book and need corrections, in particular in the form of entries. The Law also amends certain provisions which reflect the implementation of legislation in practice. A few changes are intended for simplification; others are intended to prevent the risks of abuse and damage to creditors that are also taking place in these processes or processes. In such cases, additional obligations or powers shall be imposed on notaries as to when they may make a specific arrangement marked and when they may not. The scope of the proposed amendments and additions, taking into account the overall scope of the Land Book Act, is small and constitutes a necessary and appropriate intervention in the text of the law which will primarily allow for the implementation of related immovable property and, at the same time, update the law with experience from the practice itself and refine and adapt it in the light of the interim changes in the previously mentioned legal areas. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As we all know, the land book is a public book dedicated to registering and publishing real rights on real estate. What an important record is the land book, it also tells us the principle of publicity, according to which only those rights that are registered in the land book exist on real estates. Publications in the Land Book are intended to provide information on real estate rights and facts. The proposed amendments to the Land Book Act, which we are talking about today, are of a technical nature. The rules concerning the new and additional possibility of registration of property and related properties shall be supplemented. The amendment is necessary in order to supplement the Real Law Code, which makes it possible for the individual premises or land to be simultaneously dedicated to more buildings or more to the floor owners in one building. The provisions on land debt shall also be deleted from the law. This institution was abolished in 2013 because of numerous abuses as a real right and must now be followed by regulation in the law in question. Some simplifications resulting from the implementation of the law in practice are also introduced. Among other things, old registrations of rights relating to persons born before 1900 are regulated. Such solutions will greatly facilitate the regulation of the procedures for the registration of real rights for their descendants. Usually, they have difficulty finding documents and evidence that these persons are deceased, and now this change will make life easier for them. In particular, in the SAB, we welcome the legalisation of the audit as an exceptional remedy in land-booking procedures. This will enable equal access by the parties to the Supreme Court, which will help to unify the case law and have a positive impact on legal certainty. With regard to the amendment prohibiting the availability of a marked order in the event of bankruptcy and the amendments envisaged by the new legal institute for the registration of an exceptional remedy against the decision on registration, several comments were made. The inadequacy of such an arrangement has also been pointed out in our Legal and Legislative Service, as well as the Supreme Court and some recognised legal experts. The Supreme Court has thus pointed out that it may mark an exceptional remedy against the registration decision to jeopardise the legal certainty of real estate traffic, as the conditions for allowing this registration are too vague and inconsistent. We are pleased that concerns have been taken into account in the second stage of the hearing, and as such, we have considered the proposal to be a good one in the SAB Group. The positive responses were also received by key stakeholders and professions, so we will support the proposal for a law in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u202	President, thank you for your word. That's a good-bye to all of you! The earth’s book on our soil dates back to the time of Theresa, and by about the turn of the year 2000, the work of officials had not changed much. In large - scale books, they hand-written all the required events. The milestone is a project of an e-earth book that translates paper form into a modern digital record in computers. This means faster and more orderly access to data today, as well as a single land book that is stored in a computer in a government information centre, which is a facilitation of the work of officials and even more important for customers. All the entries in the land book are public and all the data can be viewed and reviewed and copied by anyone who wants it, which is accessible to each individual through the e-book all the time. The fact that the land book is an extremely important public record suggests that the landowner is also the real owner of a property. Those who are acting honestly in legal matters and rely on the data on the rights contained in the Land Book should not suffer harmful consequences. This is a type of data relevant to the real estate market. Every property, any change in ownership, real rights, bond rights and, last but not least, certain legal facts are entered. Since 2011, when the land book system has been computerized, there have been no significant changes. To date, however, there has been a need to amend the basic law, in order to comply with the amendment of the Real Law relating to the registration of property on the ground; changes in the digitisation of the area prior to the entry into the land book, in particular in the field of taxes; arrangements for the status quo in the land book. It is an arrangement of very old entries linked to persons born before 1900, when according to biology it is clear that they are already deceased. In these cases it will no longer be necessary to demonstrate death by means of certificates. Many parties, after most descendants, will be greatly relieved by this solution. In doing so, it is stressed that it is not about registering property rights, but about other real rights. It is possible that the intervention of the Supreme Court may also occur in the Land Book Procedure by means of an audit. We have no reservations to those amendments in the Desus Group, as all the comments made by the professional public, the observations made by the Supreme Court and the comments made by our Legal and Legislative Service have already been duly taken into account by amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body. The proposed amendments to the Land Book Act from our point of view are supported, so all Members will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you, President. The proposed amendment to the law is good and professional as it corrects certain shortcomings that have arisen in practice and provides for compliance with the last amendment of the Housing Law. It also repeals the provisions on land debt, which have remained in the law ever since land debt was one of the real rights. We regret that land debt has been removed from the law because it has been a good, verifiable and effective institution in an international environment. However, we believe that the land book should be more accessible to citizens. It comes from the time of Mary Teresa and is well - known among people. People know they can rely on the data in the land book. One of the most recent amendments to the Land Book Act has provided for the sole submission of electronic proposals. This way, in our view, has alienated the earth’s book from humans. People are still accustomed to the old large books that gave them insight into the land record of their real estate. Many citizens of land-bookwork are linked to physical applications for the court and the principle of directness. People were used to coming to court and doing all the necessary landscaping. In an e-commerce country, it is not yet developed to expect people to use computers in an archaic process such as land-booking. We also find it inappropriate to set a qualified candidate for land-book proposals as this makes it impossible for a wide range of lawyers to work. This infuriates the real estate purchase process itself at a time when the buyer has the least money. Isn't it enough that he had to settle the purchase and take away the tax? Finally, there is an administrative obstacle to the payment of the fee of a qualified land-booker investor. In short, it has unnecessary costs with a notary or legal rate or with the costs of a real estate agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Jure Ferrjan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u206	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act does not change the fundamental principles of land law and the process, but fully respects them. This novel is not comprehensive and does not bring conceptual changes, but responds to the changes and additions of certain laws, in particular from the Real Law, whose novel has abolished one of the real rights, it is a land debt that has not been reflected in the Land Book Act since. The latest novel in the area of property rights or on the floor introduced a novelty regarding so-called related properties and properties in common use, whose implementation is not only related to the land book, but practically without amendments and the addition of the Land Book Act is not possible at all. The aim of compliance with these regulations is to ensure the consistency of the legal order or the consistency of the laws. It is a matter of improving the system in response to feedback from both operators and users aimed at eliminating the uniform application of the law and eliminating perceived shortcomings in practice. The amendments and additions to the Land Book Act will thus help to improve the efficient and safer operation and operation of the land book. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. Decision on the draft law will be made on Tuesday, 13th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. Seven. 2021, in the framework of the votes, i.e. tomorrow. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on the cessation of certain procedures on infringements committed under the law on possible diseases and for the absolvement of liability for infringements in legally binding procedures within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with first-signed mags. Branislav Rajic. The bill is being proposed at the 31st emergency session of 5. 5. 2021 was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. As the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u208	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Levica, we support the proposal for a law on the cessation of certain procedures for offences committed under the Law on Infectious Diseases and the exemption of liability for offences in legally terminated procedures. The fact is that criminal treatment of students at a protest in Maribor when they requested opening and access to schools was clearly unnecessary. The proposed amendment, which was adopted at the meeting of the Committee, extended the range of beneficiaries to all participants in the protest, who had been punished for violating the prohibition of merger from government decrees of 13. 3. 2020 until the law enters into force. Unjustifiable punishment occurred not only in the event of a Maribor protest against students and parents, but at all protests in the country. In a large number of cases where alleged violations have been dealt with, there have been controversial decisions by the criminal authority, and the constitutionality of certain government decisions is also questioned. For all these reasons, the only right solution for the National Assembly, as the legislator, to suspend the ongoing proceedings and to absolve the liability for the offences all accused of having already completed the proceedings, was a clear requirement at the meeting of the Committee. In the event of protests, the police have acted wrongly, confirming the conduct of the Maribor District Court, which stopped the case against the student, who participated in a peaceful protest in the Maribor Freedom Market in February. The Maribor students were sanctioned only because they demanded that they be allowed to return to the school bench. The judge apologized to the students on behalf of the people. As we know that it is impossible, we are waiting for the apology of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs and Prime Minister Janez Janša. At the Commission's meeting on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities on 17 March this year, we were able to hear both confessions for offences by protesting for the return of children to school, as well as many testimony from NGOs that have been ingrained for absurd crimes against situations that have nothing to do with preventing the spread of communicable diseases. Let me reiterate that today we are talking about violations of government decisions aimed at preventing the spread of communicable diseases, but not of legally defined offences, as often explained by the police, of course, on the basis of instructions from the superiors. The ingrained were people who had just laid their feet on the Market of the Republic before our National Assembly. She was an ingrained young woman who, on the day of Earth, was alone on the market in front of the National Assembly and laid a flower on the floor, or who read the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or read their songs loudly as a sign of protest. Unfortunately, we can only conclude that the purpose of such government measures is mainly to restrict freedom of expression. Every public protest brings together people, a public protest is a form of criticism of power. And that's a constitutionally protected category and justice. It can only be restricted in exceptional cases, but not in such a way that people should no longer express disagreement with the policy of an existing government that is obviously harmful. Last but not least, he showed a protest on April 27th, and also during the celebration of the country's independence, when more than 10,000 protestors gathered in the centre of Ljubljana. Such mass protests are very rare in the 30-year history of Slovenia, but this government has succeeded. With its wrong and arrogant policy, people literally push into the streets in protest, not only in Ljubljana, but throughout the country. Police officers could only issue a warning, since the Offences Act provides that an authorised official may, instead of imposing a sanction, alert the offender if the offence committed is of minor importance and if the authorised official considers that, in view of the importance of the act, the alert is sufficient. Where the authorised official presents the offence to the offender at the same time as a warning. Regrettably, in a large part of the cases, police officers decided on a fine in particular when protesting participants. And the fines have grown quite a bit over the last year. €400 of fines represents a major intervention in regular monthly income, especially for socially disadvantaged citizens and citizens who also have the right to protest and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. The adoption of a special law to interfere with open criminal or judicial proceedings is considered entirely inappropriate by New Slovenia and can open the plaza of such new legislative interventions to specific procedures. In Novi Slovenija we also propose that in this case we adhere to the principle that the legislative authority does not interfere with open court proceedings or criminal proceedings. Furthermore, support for such a bill would signal a negative signal in the company's acquisition to ensure that the measures to combat the covida-19 epidemic are respected as much as possible. The communication of such a law could also be that citizens are not equal before the law and that specific laws can also be adopted for specific open court proceedings of certain citizens. This is particularly sensitive if amnesty is also linked to political affiliation. We have not supported the marriage proposal because of everything mentioned on the parent's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u212	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President! Since this topic is directly related to the bill, I must first point out that schools in the Republic of Slovenia have been absolutely closed for too long, as we have also been alerting the SAB all the time. Schools have been closed to us for the longest time in Europe, which has had a lot of negative consequences, especially as experts now point out, on the mental health of children. The right to education should be the first place for children, which the Government has obviously failed to take into account. The school is a place of learning during the growing-up period, as well as socialisation, cooperation and maturation. At the time of schooling, children cannot develop all these skills, which has a significant impact on their development. In addition, teachers and other experts have repeatedly stressed that not all children have the same conditions for quality schooling at home. There has been an increase in the pressures of children who will no doubt leave severe and long - term consequences. Therefore, in the SAB we understand and support children, adolescents and their parents who expressed their dissatisfaction with the monthly closure of the school at the beginning of this year at peaceful meetings in several Slovenian cities. On 9 February, students gathered in the market for freedom in Maribor at a peaceful meeting, expressing their protest against disproportionate restrictions on their right to education. Some parents, as well as professors, joined in their demands for re-opening schools. At this meeting, the police described some participants, ordered a fine of €400 to six for alleged violations of the Infectious Diseases Act, and three juveniles were summoned to court. Their collection is intended to put public health at greater risk, even though all measures to prevent the spread of the virus have been taken together. The law that we have on the table today is therefore the result of punishing students who simply wanted to go back to school and continue their schooling normally. The main objective of this proposal is the abolition of offences or the cessation of procedures and amnesty for legal proceedings to be completed. In the case of three students, the court recognised, in all proceedings at the mandatory time, the disproportionateity of certain penalties, since it had stopped all criminal proceedings. The judge even apologized on behalf of the people and thus proved that she understood the principle of the division of power. This principle, however, is sadly quite foreign to executive powers under the leadership of John Janša. In the SAB, we are extremely happy that in this matter, reason has finally prevailed. We agree that the punishment of the students was totally unnecessary and inappropriate, especially in a given situation. Students and their parents peacefully exercised their fundamental human rights while respecting all these measures, in particular their right to gather and unite as provided for in Article 42 of the Constitution. Finally, thank God that the proposal for a law is not really necessary, since the court has stopped all proceedings in the light of recklessness. In the SAB, we understand the proposaler's symbolic message, but we note that further caution is needed in such laws. After all, these are major interventions in the decisions of the executive and judicial branches of government, in decisions that may already be legally binding. The Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out that, during the legislative procedure, the practice of deciding on these offences, which could lead to a decision on legal regulation, was only in the process of being established. However, all rights, including the constitutional principle of equality, must be consistently respected in such legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u214	President, once again, thank you for your word. Say hello again to all your colleagues and colleagues! The conclusions of the survey on so-called squirting in Slovenian schools a few years ago are as follows. The absence of education, justified or unjustifiable, is a problem faced by school authorities, experts and teachers in all school systems. The recipe for keeping students in school has not yet been invented. The magnitude of spraying in Slovenian schools is not yet catastrophic; concern is that it is becoming increasingly apparent from the teachers. For the students are not so absent because of the disease, but because of fear of a negative assessment. They are overloaded due to too long or inadequately composed schedule, for example, on which are the block of hours of heavy objects. Teachers use inadequate teaching methods, making students bored and passive. They are still adding too much learning plans. They spray as bad as the great students, the reasons for spraying are the same. The year 2020 is brought about by a complete conversion. The epidemic caused the complete closure of schools, which some schoolchildren may have had only a short time, but what soon these too lacked to learn, schedule and order, guards, generally a steady pace of schooling. A different way of life, limited almost to home, has undoubtedly left a mark on the most vulnerable, these are our children. The fact is that the epidemic and its closure caused serious health, development, safety and well-being of children. Without daily interactions with peers due to lack of movement, the loss of physical readiness was detected, and more and more mental pressures were detected. The long-distance teaching of many could not or did not have the right conditions — inadequate computers and software, lack of access to the Internet, and many parents could not help with their education. After a long time of education from home, children do not think about squirting. On the contrary, they set foot on the streets and peacefully protested their position, their desire, their request to return to the school bench, and thus formally violated the measure to limit the epidemic — the forbidden collection. In the Desus Group, we understand the reasons and purpose of the proposaler for the so-called abolition of violations against students who protested in Maribor on 9 February this year, and the Ministry of Justice also argued. The fact is that all proceedings against a student who was sentenced to a misdemeanour in Maribor on that day have been stopped, and the fact is that the law is precisely due to its inadequacy and the question of the principle of equality – the proposal has not excluded other days, another place and so on – has completed the legislative path on the working body. Let me conclude with the wish that as soon as possible, all of us, including schoolchildren, will finally return to a stable way of life without fear and coronation, even with the problem of spraying.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u216	Dear Mr President, dear colleagues, good afternoon! We have now tabled a bill on the abolition and amnesty of the Maribor students with some of our former party colleagues. Even before the last judgment of the Constitutional Court, we stressed that the authorities of the repression of the government regulation used disproportionately and unfairly to punish the students of Maribor. They merely demanded a return to the school bench, i.e. their constitutional right to education, taking into account all security measures. Moreover, the police records concluded that they were not punished for gathering in a public place, but were punished for words they had said publicly and recorded on protest posters. Finally, with disappointment, we have found that the majority of the Justice Committee have not achieved sufficient wisdom and maturity to systematically remove the sentences imposed by a small group of young people who have demanded their constitutional rights peacefully. Coalition colleagues have run out of empathy, which is a personality line, but this was also a drop in the democracy exam, which was a word for word in almost all their debates. In the meantime, the Constitutional Court found that the fine number of government decisions restricting the freedom of individuals at the time of the epidemic was invalid, as they were based on the Law on Infectious Diseases, which in the work to which they referred, was unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has pointed out that it is also necessary to intervene at the time of the epidemic in fundamental human rights and constitutional rights, with great caution, with great feelings for the right measure and accuracy. Maribor students were the first victims of disproportionate interference with the constitutional rights of citizens on the basis of unconstitutional government decisions. The situation that has arisen now, following the judgment of the Constitutional Court, is fully the responsibility of the Government. The excuses that we have often heard — that the marriage is old and that no previous government has fixed it — are simply a diversion of attention. First, because we did not face an epidemic of these dimensions throughout the 30-year history of Slovenia, and secondly, because the government coalition in the National Assembly even changed some of the provisions of this law during the epidemic. The profession also noted the formal shortcomings of the decisions it had taken. The government has therefore unjustifiably trampled on the constitutional rights of citizens. Does it even matter whether it was superficiality, incoherence due to haste, or even conscious infringements? Each of these reasons is worrying and reflects the relation to the constitutional rights of citizens and the legislation in force. If we look back at the time of antiquity, when the beginnings of democracy came out of a hard imperial terror, we can say that in the case of the Maribor students, we would think twice about Caligula. I will also give the thought of a well-known lawyer who writes: “The persecution of children who advocate the opening of schools is absurd and repulsive.” The law, which I have incorporated into the parliamentary procedure as first-signed, is therefore essentially based on justice and equality before the law for all citizens and provides that penalties for violations against all those students who have already been paid shall be reimbursed and the offences shall be deleted from the record. This would correct the injustices that have been committed to citizens due to government errors and irrational, i.e. the excessive repression that the police have used to protest against the Moroccan students. In the light of the Constitutional Court's statement, however, the National Assembly will certainly not be able to go beyond all the other injustices that occurred to citizens at the time of the epidemic, when the Government, on the basis of non-constitutional regulations, intervened in the area of their constitutional rights. I regret that this national assembly and the labour force with a prominent name, the Justice Committee, have not gained enough autonomy because the government coalition has overtaken our proposal to abandon the persecution of students and the exemption of sentences. This time, this cylindrical man beat up a very young man, only to shout out a lawn. But the grass, as it seemed yesterday, will grow even more and will grow in spite of the beating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u218	Nice greetings to all present! The proceedings before the court have not even been completed, the opposition law has already been tabled. Such conduct is a pressure on the courts, and this should not be the case. These are citizens who must be as responsible for their actions if this is not in accordance with the rules. The Act on Offences sets a limit of 14 years when an individual may be subject to sanctions. Given the number of procedures, it is clear that a lot of warnings have been given and that only the worst cases have been subject to sanctions, which the Court further annulled. The penalty as a educational measure is intended primarily for the rearming of an individual, and this fundamental principle seeks to put today's law on the head. So what's the message? The problem is, though, that individual judges apologize on behalf of the people. Such gestures should not take place on the part of the judiciary, for he must be a judge of authority who should not show any emotion in his work. The judge has nothing to apologize for, although the law he has to apply is, in his view, unjustifiable.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! The Act on the Cessation of Certain Procedures for Offences Committed under the Law on Infectious Diseases and the Exemption of Liability for Offences in Legally Complete Procedures tabled by a group of Members and Members of Members with First-signed Magi. Branislav Rajić was treated on the working body at the beginning of May 2021. Let us first point out that the covida-19 epidemic and government measures to protect health and life cannot be part of the political struggle either on the street or here in the National Assembly. Illegal meetings during the epidemic were the trigger of new infections and potentially new deaths, so it is not important to us whether some members of the left-wing political province, employees, students or students attended illegal meetings. Let us recall that these are students who participated in an undeclared meeting at the market for freedom in Maribor in early February 2021 to return to the school bench. Certain violations were detected by Maribor police officers and filed fines and indictments. The students thus received appeals to a judge for violations of the Law on Infectious Diseases. The Maribor District Court received a total of three indictments against minors and six students received a fine of EUR 400. Representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service, at the meeting of the Justice Committee, clarified the concept of amnesty and abolition and pointed out that the proposed law on the cessation of certain infringement proceedings does not specify precisely enough to clarify what amnesty and abolition should be involved. We opposed the proposed law because it actually wanted to legitimize unequal treatment of violators of government decrees, which is directly contrary to the constitutional principle of equality before the law, while giving the wrong signal of respect for measures to combat the epidemic. First of all, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members and not the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors. He then voted on all the articles of the bill together and did not adopt them. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which puts the health and lives of our fellow citizens in the first place, of course, we have not supported this proposal of the law and this is how it ends its procedural path today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Jerca Korče will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. During the epidemic, we should protect vulnerable groups, that is, take care of the elderly. The government failed to do so because the virus broke into the homes, the providers died, and the elderly became victims of the virus. Unfortunately, it's not the only one yet. The great, you could say the hidden, unheard victims of the epidemic were also young. The government forgot about them. More than that, she ignored them. The young people were alerted to their plight and were always overheared, whether they were children, schoolchildren, or students. The problem was they didn't have an accomplice at the government level. The school minister, who was supposed to be the first vote of young people and their protector, preferred to be passive. At all times, she never once made herself clear on the part of young people. She found herself simply to be speechless and instead of acting, she became just some kimovka government. It is recalled that young people have expressed their disagreement about the closure of schools for more than four months, in the light of epidemiological measures, peacefully, outdoors. That's what they were punished for. And the response of Minister Kustec to this punishment was more childish. She stated that it was young adults she believed to understand and take responsibility for their actions, that it was the first step into the world of adulthood. The Minister obviously did not realize that their expression of disagreement had shown in particular an inappropriately higher degree of critical thinking and accountability to society than she had in her own actions during the ministerial period. By the way, the development of a critical opinion is one of the key objectives of education and the Minister should be at least proud of it, but he obviously does not know the area he is managing or I apologize for having to manage it. Remember, young people should be our common concern. They are the future of our society. The relationship we have with them is at the same time a relationship to our future. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we would like to point out today, above all, that it does not show us the best, and we refer to two figures. Compared to the average between 2015 and 2019, 72% have increased the number of calls made by young people thinking and threatening suicide. In children's psychiatry and pediatric clinic UKC Ljubljana, the trend of urgent referrals has increased significantly since December last year. In March, urgent deployments were already twice as much as during the most burdened months of the past years. Does one of the authorities deal with this today? Is any action taken? It is true that the subject discussed by today’s law has already received an epilogue, but we would like to point out in the Marjan Sarca List that this does not mean that the broader problem is solved. The consequences remain, and apparently they will remain. We believe that at least the following should happen in the Group of the Letters of Marjan Šarc. First time. Minister Kustec should have left the post a long time ago, as it is clear that she has not been a part of the management of the department so far, and it is clear that every day of her ministry means only deepening the problems of young people. Another time. We should immediately prepare solutions to ensure a smooth education in the event of another closure or a new epidemic. Third time. We should gather and ask everyone who understands and knows the real situation in the field of psychological and social distress of young people and prepare a set of solutions for immediate assistance, psychological, social or whatever they need because of the epidemic, endangered young people. The attitude that this government cultivates toward young people, or rather does not cultivate, should simply be of concern to us. It shows us a dark image of the future. However, if we take into account the fact that the young are being held by the world, it is only right to take care of them. True, as one of my predecessors said, the young have shown this government yesterday that the grass will grow even if you want to beat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues! Since the introduction of this proposal, a number of things have happened. On the one hand, proceedings against pupils who were protesting and being punished for wanting to go back to school, and to which this bill also referred, have already been brought to an end in court. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court repealed part of the Law on Infectious Diseases because it is unconstitutional and, as a result, some are unconstitutional on this basis to adopt government decisions and measures. The legislative procedure against this bill has already been completed, but in the opposition, on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, we have already drawn up a new proposal for an amnesty law and a abolition law, which would have already stopped the initiation of procedures whereby all those who, on the basis of unconstitutional sub-laws, would have been entitled to reimbursement of the fine and the costs of the procedure. It is clear, therefore, that this government has not only acted superficially, but also unconstitutionally and unlawfully, and contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the rule of law, because it has not adapted the legislation adequately to the measures, but has limited the limits of the most fundamental human rights that we have over the course of history, to the limits of decisions and to the substantively empty laws. Some other European countries, through which we are so keen to imitate each other, have done so and have adapted their legislation at the time of the epidemic. Our Government has not done so, even though it has been warned of this before the Constitutional Court's decision by various professional services and also by some lawyers. We have also been alerting the Social Democrats throughout the epidemic to the dispute over certain government decisions and measures that government measures must have a legitimate and clear basis for restricting fundamental human rights to be possible only by law. Therefore, already on 11 March this year, before the decision of the Constitutional Court and the submission of this law, we have addressed to the Government the initiative to remove or suspend the procedures already adopted on offences that individuals are expected to commit in order to exercise the constitutional right to freedom of movement, to peaceful assembly and association and to express themselves freely. To remedy or suspend pending the final decision of the Constitutional Court, proceedings have already been initiated on offences in other cases related to measures taken in the country as a result of the declared epidemic, which the Constitutional Court can expect to find unconstitutional as a result of excessive interference with constitutionally protected human rights or freedoms. The Constitutional Court has already done some of this. It has repealed the law, but has not yet made a substantive assessment of certain concrete measures taken by the Government. But some lower courts have already done so. For example, the Supreme Court in Cyprus stopped proceedings against a person who did not wear a mask because the use of a mask was not defined in any law as an offence. Or let's say with this bill, addressed cases of Maribor students, of whom the Maribor District Court stated: “It follows from this that no constitutional right is absolute, nor is it the right to collect and express opinions, but that the principle of proportionality must be taken into account when limiting these rights, so that they can be restricted only exceptionally and for a limited period of time.” Some courts have therefore already decided, through case law, that, despite the seriousness of the epidemic and its consequences on the health of fundamental human rights, we cannot limit it at all costs and without adequate legal grounds. Unfortunately, citizens and citizens are now paying for the gross violation of the rule of law and the rule of law, and we have also proposed the adoption of these specific laws to remedy the injustices caused at systemic level. However, it is also necessary for the abolition or amnesty of a certain circle of people to be freed of offences or to repay fines paid to them, even if they have been issued on the basis of illegal regulations, to ensure that we do not cause confusion or create even greater and new inequalities or injustices between the various groups of perpetrators of offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Daniel Kastelic.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u226	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members, honourable Secretary of State! You have before you a proposal for a law that we have drafted in order to eliminate discrimination in the eligibility to receive a disability. In accordance with the provisions of the ZPIZ-1, a disability may be acquired by any insured person who has suffered a physical impairment as a result of injury at work or occupational disease or injury outside work, irrespective of whether he has enjoyed any other right under the ZPIZ-1. The invalidity was no longer regulated in the ZPIZ-2. It is only specified that the provisions of PIZ-1 in which the disability is regulated shall continue to apply, but only if the injury is caused by injury at work or by occupational disease. As part of the preparation of the ZPIZ-2 proposal, it was agreed to exclude the disability from the pension scheme. In doing so, in the process of enacting laws, all persons with disabilities who have obtained this right under PPIZ-1 have been provided with the provisions of Article 403, paragraph 3, of the PPIZ-2 to receive it further and the possibility of obtaining the right to a disability only to those whose physical impairment was caused by injury at work or occupational disease. Insured persons whose physical impairment occurred after 1 January 2013 as a result of sickness or injury outside work were thus far unable to obtain the right to disability, as there is no relevant sectoral legislation, although it is expected to be adopted within two years of the entry into force of the PSIZ-2. The aim of the law before you is thus to eliminate the inequality between insured persons entitled to disability due to a physical disability caused by injury at work or occupational disease and those who are not entitled to disability from 1 January 2013 because their physical impairment has occurred outside work. The latter wish to re-enable access to the right to a disability which was no longer available after the entry into force of the ZPIZ-2. An even more important aim of the law is to eliminate the inequality between insured persons who have a physical disability arising out of work before 1 January 2013 and those who for the same reasons have a physical impairment after that date. Because there is no personal difference in these persons, inequality is even greater from this point of view. Article 403 and Article 429 of the Law shall be deleted from those parts of the Decisions which contain the condition that the damage is caused by injury at work or by occupational disease. This allows all insured persons with disabilities, irrespective of the cause of their origin, to obtain the right to payment of the invalidity allowance. We are pleased that the proposal for a law to be considered by the competent Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee has received unanimous support, and we also welcome the amendment adopted by that Committee, which addressed the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We are aware that the law is non-systematic, but we hope that its adoption will temporarily fill the legal void and eliminate discrimination between individuals who differ only after the time and cause of the occurrence of physical impairment and their needs are completely comparable. This is about people whose income as a disabled person is crucial to ensuring their involvement in social life, and I ask you to support the proposal for a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance submitted to the National Council for its consideration and adoption. The representative of the motions presented the draft law first, and then the representative of the Government presented the opinion of the Government, which considers that the proposal does not address the issues in a way that follows the objectives and principles that it itself points out, since the problems are not dealt with equally for all individuals in the same situation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their opinion and drew attention to the specific comments made on the article of the law. It also pointed out that such regulation means the retroactive effect of a law to which legislative material is not specifically defined. Article 155 of the Constitution prohibits the return of legal acts, as they cannot have an effect on them. The representative of ZPIZ presented the disability situation and stressed that they understood the intention of the proposer, who was trying to correct the inequality. At the same time, he warned that PIZ is committed to a systemic solution, but if they decide on a partial solution, then it must be resolved in full. He drew attention to the need to harmonise the remuneration if the proposal is to be adopted. The representative of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia said that, despite the fact that the solution is partial, it is necessary to accept that it will be in force in time for the implementation of the system solution. In a short discussion, all the discussers expressed their support for the bill. They pointed out that despite a partial solution to the proposal, which eliminates the injustices that occurred in 2013, it has lasted for a long period of eight years. Despite the Ministry's and PPIZ's warnings, it is a solution that is necessary from a human point of view, since disability must not pose a risk to poverty. Disability is part of society and must be based on the solidarity of the whole society. The Committee further prepared its amendment to Article 1. The Committee voted on all the articles of the draft law and also unanimously adopted them and therefore prepared a complementary proposal for the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mateja Ribič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! In September 2020, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia received an opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was submitted to the National Council. The proposal proposes that the right to disability be reintroduced in PIZ-2 also in respect of insured persons who suffer from injury outside work and disease. In the case of disabled persons, PPIZ-2 retained the rights already enjoyed by individuals on this basis until their application and ensured their continued payment, while allowing the right to disability to continue to apply the rules on the protection of persons with disabilities, which are intended to regulate the procedures for determining the type and degree of physical impairment, can only be obtained for those physical impairments resulting from injury to work or occupational disease. Since the relevant rules were not adopted within the prescribed time limit, the Council of State has given a legislative initiative to amend the PPIZ-2 regime in a way that would allow the right to disability to be regained until disability rules are implemented, including for physical defects resulting from injury outside work and disease. The proposal also allows new rules on types and degrees of physical impairment to be applied to the recognition of rights if adopted in the meantime. The government has examined the indications and arguments of the bill's proponents and considers that the proposal does not address the issue in a manner that follows the objectives and principles it stresses, otherwise, because the issue is not regulated equally for all individuals in the same situation. The proposal re-establishes unequal treatment between individuals with physical impairment. PPIZ-1, in conjunction with PPIZ-2, regulates the possibility of obtaining a disability only in the case of a existence of insurance, which means that without that right individuals who may also be given an equal or worse disability, which occurred at a time when the individual was not insured. The Home Committee for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons supported the proposal of the law when adopting smaller supplements. The effect of amended Article 403 of the Act is thus bound by the existing provisions of this Article to the time following the entry into force of the proposed amendment of the Law of ZPIZ-2J, allowing for the acquisition of the right to disability from the first day of the next month following the submission of the request and for a maximum period of six months. Finally, from the point of view of the Government, we would like to add that we agree that a new list of types and degrees of physical impairment as well as the relevant rules in the field of persons with disabilities should be adopted as soon as possible, but in the manner originally foreseen by the legislator, that is to say, independently of insurance and only depending on the type and degree of physical impairment, which would establish a single system of recognition of rights on this basis and comprehensive solutions that will treat individuals equally in the same situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. With the implementation of PIZ-2, the right to disability was lost compared to PIZ-1 by those insured who suffered physical impairment as a result of injury outside work and disease. The right to an invalidity allowance after the ZPIZ-2 shall also be exercised by those insured who have suffered physical impairment due to injury at work or occupational disease. The amendment proposal of the State Council therefore provides for the reintroduction of invalidity also for insured persons in whom physical impairment is caused by injury outside work or disease. It also provides for a solution to be applied instead of an outdated 1983 self-government agreement, which is currently used in the preparation of expert opinions in relation to the granting of disability, to a new sub-legislative act on the type and degree of physical impairment, once adopted by the competent minister of health and the protection of persons with disabilities. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe that the proposed solution is partial, does not solve problems at systemic level, but we will still support the proposal. We believe that injustices must be eliminated, while at the same time there are indeed systemic solutions that will also address the problem in the long term. In the past, we have heard many times as a justification for rejecting the good solutions that we have drawn up, just as an argument that the problems are not fully and systematically addressed and that the rulings will draw up a new system document. Then we never got this system document on the table. In New Slovenia – we place our trust in the common good and solidarity of Christian Democrats. Social security is one of the foundations for the protection of human dignity, it is a condition for the internal peace of every human being and thus also a basis for economic efficiency. Those who are no longer able to care for themselves because of age, disability, illness, or unemployment need to rely on the solidarity of others. But we don't want this security mechanism to be abused. This would mean decomposition of values and social states. Disabled persons are an important part of our society and belong to it. They must be able to shape their own everyday life. Integration must be present throughout society. Disability shall not constitute a risk of poverty for disabled persons and their closest or for social exclusion. It is very important for people with disabilities to be able to cover at least partially their costs by work, so we advocate their involvement in work and society and independent life. We need more openness in hiring people with disabilities. Disability insurance benefits must also ensure a decent life. With the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we go to see persons with disabilities. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats in the year and a half since we took over the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Situation and Equal Opportunities, we have proposed and adopted numerous laws that make life easier for children and adults with special needs. It is time for us to also advocate for people with disabilities and give them the help and support they need to become more involved in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The New Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which we are considering today at the proposal of the Council of State, is proposing only one solution. By deleting the provisions containing the condition that the disability is caused by injury at work or by occupational disease, the right to disability shall be reinstated also for those insured who have suffered physical impairment as a result of injury outside work or disease. The invalidity shall be in accordance with the current arrangement of the monetary remuneration to which an individual is entitled in the event of a physical impairment. It is regulated in PIZ-1, although the latter is no longer in force and is still in use in this part. In accordance with the current regulation, a physical defect is reported if the insured person has a loss requiring greater efforts to meet the needs of life, whether or not this defect causes disability. An insured person who develops a disability during insurance shall be entitled to a disability pension under the same conditions as those applicable to the acquisition of the right to a disability pension. ZPIZ-1 divided the body's damage into eight degrees. These are only one of the criteria on which disability is then measured. However, the second criterion is related to the cause of physical impairment. The invalidity resulting from an illness or injury outside work shall be 70 % of the amount fixed for a physical impairment of the same degree resulting from injury at work or occupational disease in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 146 of STIZ-1. If the physical impairment is partly due to injury at work or occupational disease, and partly due to disease or injury outside work, the disability shall be administered in total according to the overall degree of disability found. However, the amount of disability shall be determined in proportion to the impact of the individual cause on the overall percentage of disability. It is true that, in accordance with the current arrangement, the disability is regulated in the form of a compensation for physical impairment obtained during insurance or at the time of retirement, and constitutes the right to a long-term and periodic benefit paid monthly to the insured or the user. It is also true that this is an additional right from compulsory disability insurance and not a right from disability insurance. As such, therefore, it is an independent and inalienable right. This right is independent of the possible simultaneous enjoyment of other rights by law. There is also no condition that disability is caused by physical impairment or disease. It is particularly important that the acquisition of the right to disability is not linked to the beneficiary’s property situation. This is a non-contributory income, which is one of the basic principles of pension and disability insurance. Despite the clear purpose of the Institute of Disability, a significant proportion of individuals lost this right in 2013, although the difference between beneficiaries is only due to the occurrence of physical impairment. The Ombudsman has been warning us about anomaly and discrimination in the current regulation for a long time. He has repeatedly called on the competent ministry to eliminate discrimination which has been in force since 2013 and which has rendered the right to disability no longer recognised to all persons with disabilities with a specific disability. On the home working body, we supported the proposal of the law in the majority, as well as the supplement relating to the use of an already existing list on types and degrees of physical impairment. We only wish that the preparation of a new list on types and degrees of physical impairment would not take too long. We will support the bill in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u236	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! Disability is a monetary benefit to which an individual is entitled in the event of a physical impairment. It was initially addressed in chapter 8 by the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, so-called STIZ-1. However, this is no longer in force, but is still applicable in this part under Articles 403 and 429 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2. PPIZ-2 retained the right to disability for physical impairment for those who acquired it until its adoption, while only those whose physical impairment was caused by injury at work or occupational disease could obtain the said right to a new one by the application of PPIZ-2. Thus, insured persons whose physical impairment is due to illness or injury outside work have been caused since 1. 1. 2013 onwards, they are not entitled to disability. The law before us today thus addresses and eliminates the inequality between the mentioned insurers, which after the calculations made by the bill-maker between 15 thousand 311 and 19 thousand 295. In the SAB Group, we are aware that the proposal constitutes a partial intervention in systemic legislation, but we agree with the proposer that, pending the adoption of the comprehensive solution promised by the Government, the right to a disability may be temporarily re-established in the ZPIZ-2 and that after the adoption of the system law be reintroduced into the system of disability insurance. Waiting for the system law for the most vulnerable groups of people who are financially difficult to break in over a month does not make life easier in any way. In anticipation of a government systemic solution, we will therefore support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! Under the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act 1, disabled persons were entitled to the payment of the disability, where the disability was caused both by sickness and injury at work and outside work. With the 2012 pension reform, which followed the demographic response and also pursued the objective of saving and thus the sustainability of pensions, the placement of physical defects in pension and disability protection has become questionable, as the new pension law's drafter has pointed out that it is not necessary that a reduced working capacity of the insured has also been given in the event of a disability and thus entitlement to compensation. In the fact that this is a right which constitutes a derogation from other disability insurance rights which provide the insured with a continuous monthly income with the aim of replacing the broken-down part of the income due to the disability or reduced working capacity, the legislator decided that the right in question should be regulated outside the pension and disability insurance system and that these issues should be settled systematically in the second new protection law and not more than two years after the entry into force of the PSIZ-2. At the same time, the list of physical defects that was written in 1983 or corrected in 1989 should be updated. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2 is the same as 1. 1. 2013 denied the right to a disability group of persons with disabilities who suffered from illness and injury outside work. It has determined that the payment of the invalidity allowance belongs only to beneficiaries who have recognised physical impairment due to occupational illness or injury at work. As a result, today we have two categories of disabled persons with the same physical impairments and those who do not have a specific disability in connection with work are at a disadvantage. In the Desus Group, we are aware that such discrimination is not admissible, nor is it justifiable to delay the competent ministries, namely the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities for years and years to postpone the regulation of the issue of the physical framework and consequently the compensations to be paid to persons with disabilities under this Title. The situation is unsustainable and unfair, since it is actually a grave deprivation of all those people who have a significantly lower quality of life and the chances of meeting the needs of life due to physical impairment. It does not matter how this physical impairment occurred or whether it happened because of events or diseases that are or are not related to the performance of the work, it is important that appropriate and fair assistance is provided to them in the context of social and health protection. The proposal for a new law in force that solves this and restores the right to disability to all patients or to disabled persons with disabilities, regardless of the reason for its creation, will be united and happy to support in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague, good afternoon! In September 2020, the Council of State introduced into the parliamentary procedure the amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which seeks to eliminate inequalities between insured persons entitled to disability because they have a physical disability resulting from injury at work or from a occupational illness and insured persons who have not been entitled to disability since the beginning of 2014, because of their physical impairment as a result of illness or injury outside work. Thus, for many years it has been recalled that there has been an unjustified and discriminatory regime which denies a category of disabled persons the right to a disability and thereby makes their social situation worse. However, an even more important objective pursued by the proposal for a law is to eliminate inequalities between insured persons who have a physical impairment resulting from a disease or injury outside work before 1 January 2013 and those who for the same reasons have a physical impairment after that date. The Ombudsman has also been reminded of this shortcomings and unfair regulation for many years, which has received several initiatives in which the initiators have expressed disagreement because the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance does not grant them the right to a disability due to inadequate legal basis. While it is true that the proposed orientation is partial and should be regulated in a uniform manner for all individuals, not only for insured persons who have found a reduced working capacity due to physical impairment, but regardless of this it is necessary to eliminate discrimination as soon as possible and in the meantime to amend pension legislation in an appropriate or comprehensive manner. We agree that all persons who are assessed by disability commissions on a similar or identical physical defect should be treated in the same way, since the only difference between them is that they are injured or ill in other circumstances or that they have not suffered in time. Such an interpretation is at least inappropriate for the social state. It is not right for a particular category of citizens and citizens to reduce social security simply because so far the authorities have not been able to eliminate discrimination. Disability must not pose a risk to social neglect or potential risks to even greater poverty. Therefore, in our views, we join the proposal for today's novelism of the pension law, the Ombudsman and all others who point to discriminatory regulation, and we will of course unanimously support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you very much. It is Dušan Šiško who will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u242	Vice President, thank you for your word. We can never know when disability, one wrong step, one decision, and you are already there. Therefore, let us accept the disabled as part of our society and be solid with them. In addition to the reduced capacity to work, disabled people face higher living costs in addition to reduced working capacity, as food and drink prices are rising rapidly. With the amendment of the law, they are in some way being financially corrected by the injustice they have felt for years to make it easier for them to survive their daily lives when they finally come to justice, which will mean an additional euro in their pocket, even though we cannot even talk about some high amounts. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are not disturbed by different remunerations, as it is essential to make a difference whether you are injured at work or outside the home when you fall from a tree. The law will act retroactively or backwardly, which is, of course, permissible provided that this requires public benefit and thus does not prejudice already acquired rights. However, let this not be some consistent practice for the future. Since 2013, only insured persons with physical impairment who suffered injury at work or occupational disease have been entitled to compensation and disabled persons who suffered injury outside work have been exempted. In 2018, the Ombudsman noted that the Ministry of Health, in agreement with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, had not yet established the type and degree of physical impairment that would be the basis for the enforcement of disability insurance rights. The proposal for a law was also duly supplemented by an amendment due to certain legitimate concerns on the home labour body. It was, inter alia, written down that, pending the entry into force of the new list of types and degrees of physical impairment, insured persons may obtain the right to disability on the basis of the list from the time of the former Yugoslavia. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this is a partial solution, so we appeal to the Government to draw up appropriate laws on the protection of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Lidija Ivanuša has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u244	Vice President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act has been introduced into the procedure by the Council of State, which, with the proposed amendments, wishes to revive the disability institution for insured persons whose physical impairment is due to injury or illness outside work. The first objective of this law is to eliminate inequalities between insured persons who are entitled to disability because they have a physical disability resulting from injury at work or from occupational illness and insured persons who have a disability from 1. 1. 2013 is no longer justified because their physical impairment was caused by disease or injury outside the workplace. The second objective of the applicants is to eliminate the inequality between insured persons who have a physical impairment resulting from a disease or injury outside work before 1. 1. 2013 and those who for the same reasons suffered from physical impairment after that date. In this way, persons whose disability has occurred outside work should be allowed to have access to the right to a disability that is after 1. 1. 2013 was no longer able to obtain. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware of the fact that we are on the road to solving the very sensitive problem as soon as possible or to supporting the bill that we are considering today, because it is a proposal that eliminates the injustices that have occurred in 2013 and have lasted for eight years. We also argue that solving this problem from a human point of view is necessary, as disability must not pose a risk to poverty. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we also believe that this bill addresses this issue in a partial way, so this is not the right approach. There is no way that we can and must not be our goal to adopt solutions that would cause new injustices, and that is exactly what is happening if legislation is not prepared in a comprehensive and systematic manner. The fact is that the bill we have on the table once again establishes an unequal treatment between individuals who have suffered a physical defect. PPIZ-1, in conjunction with PPIZ-2, regulates the possibility of obtaining a disability only in the case of a existence of insurance, which means that without that right individuals who may also be given an equal or worse degree of physical impairment, which occurred at a time when the individual was not insured. This proves that integrity and systemic integrity are necessary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We are aware of the urgency of addressing the issue and, with the support of this law, we also prove this and remain committed to our commitments that the care of the disabled is one of our client's priorities and must be based on the solidarity of the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! Today we are considering the amendment to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the applicant, the aim of the law is to eliminate inequalities between insured persons who are entitled to disability because they have a physical disability resulting from injury at work or from occupational illness and insured persons who have to disability from 1. 1. 2013 is not justified because their physical impairment was caused by disease or injury outside the workplace. In this way, it is desirable for persons whose disability has occurred outside the workplace to have access to the right to a disability that is after 1. 1. 2013 was no longer able to obtain. An even more important aim of the law is, according to the proposaler, to eliminate inequalities between insured persons who have a physical impairment resulting from illness or injury outside work before 1. 1. 2013 and those who for the same reasons suffered from physical impairment after that date. These inequalities occurred after the adoption of the PIZ-2, which entered into force on 1 January 2013. Since the entry into force of this law, the right to disability has no longer been recognised for those with disabilities with individual physical impairment, but only for those with disabilities whose physical impairment has been caused after that date by injury at work or occupational disease. PPIZ-1, however, recognized disability to all disabled persons with a certain physical impairment, regardless of how and where a particular physical injury or disability occurred. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposed changes, including the financial implications of the draft law, which should not have been provided for. Such an excuse in the List of Marjan Šarca surprises us. It is this government that has so far not spent much of our taxpayer’s money wisely. Moreover, tax legislation intends to dissipate more than a billion euro in the coming years, but the budget does not provide for the elimination of the injustices faced by many insurers for a number of years. This is a vulnerable group of people who often face reduced labour capacity, high costs due to their needs, and consequently lower incomes. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we advocate the cleaning of the items of the pension register, which do not belong there. The invalidity is an allowance that has been received by all persons with disabilities regardless of the contribution and the level of the contributions and regardless of their other assets. Disability is therefore not part of pension and disability insurance, as it is a non-contributory income, which is one of the basic principles of pension and disability insurance. This was also the reason why the legislator for PIZ-2 invalidity wanted to exclude it from the pension and disability insurance system and later place it in a separate system of protection of disabled persons. In all these years, however, the State has not adopted appropriate protection rules and has thus not eliminated the injustices committed to many insured persons. That is why, of course, we will support the amendment of the Law in the List of Marjan Šarca. The proposed solution should apply until appropriate rules on the protection of persons with disabilities are adopted. In doing so, we appeal to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities to immediately approach the preparation of appropriate solutions and to submit to the National Assembly as soon as possible an appropriate proposal for a law on the protection of persons with disabilities, while at the same time changing the ZPIZ in the way it was intended in 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The word is given by Sonibo Knezak, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Today's draft amendments and the addition of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which reintroduces a disability pension for insured persons who have physical or mental impairment resulting from sickness or injury outside work, will be supported by social democrats. The purpose of the proposed amendment of the law is thus to re-establish the distinction between insured persons who suffered from injury at work or occupational disease and insured persons who have not been entitled to disability since 2013 as a result of illness or injury outside work. The current situation of unequal treatment between insurers was due to the initial proposal for a reform of the pension system, which did not provide for a disability scheme under the law governing pension and disability insurance at all. In the event of physical impairment, it is not necessary that a reduced working capacity of the insured person is also given. In addition, individuals were able to obtain disabled persons on the basis of different rules. Thus, it was envisaged that the disability issue would be fully settled in a single system for all individuals, not just for insurers. During the examination of the pension reform, a compromise was then adopted, which stipulated that disability would only belong to insured persons whose physical impairment is due to injury at work or occupational disease, thereby creating the already mentioned inequality between non-acceptable insurers, as it has been almost 10 years since the announcement that the disability issue would be settled in a specific law for all individuals. During this time, both the right to payment of disability due to physical impairment were reduced insecurities with injuries and spinal disorders, multiple sclerosis and other neuromuscular diseases, and those requiring aggressive radiation therapy, chemotherapy or possible transplantation of organs or tissues. All these insurers have been able to suffer from more permanent physical damage due to aggressive treatment, which has had a significant impact on their quality of life. With the reintroduction of disability for all insured persons, these individuals will be able to at least partially facilitate their daily survival as they often face reduced working ability, resulting in working performance as persons without permanent physical or psychological consequences due to illness or injury. [[Incomprehensible]] In addition, disability for many of them will also be an important financial supplement to cover the costs of purchasing a special medical device or diet. Since the current disability regime is inadequate and because we still do not have a proposal for a comprehensive regulation of the disability system in a special law, as promised almost 10 years ago, we believe that it is correct to reintroduce disability benefits for all insured persons under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you very much. As last received the word Boštjan Koražija, who will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u250	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The pension reform of the Janšev government in 2012 was deeply and strongly encroached on the rights of all former and future pensioners. PPIZ-2, together with the Public Finance Balance Act, represents the core of austerity measures that have hit mainly public sector employees and the social state, hit domestic consumption and launched the economy into a new recession. Tax cuts and privatisation have opened the country to foreign capital, and both workers and pensioners have been killed. Unfortunately, one of the victims of the austerity measures was also disabled. The pension reform of the former Janša government has abolished disability for all, except for injuries in the workplace and occupational diseases. There is no surprise that the fiscal hawks of the law have carefully removed disability benefits for physical impairment. It is the fact that a worker or insured person, in the event of physical impairment, injury at work or occupational disease, has received some lower remuneration than compensation for the fact that the activity of his body has been hampered and that he is making greater efforts than everyone else to carry out his life’s needs. Justice covered the gray area when it was not a disability, but it was a disability. The amounts we are talking about are negligible from the point of view of public finances, from the point of view of the social state, embarrassing, and from the point of view of individuals, the difference between a slightly higher and a little lower poverty, with a 100 per cent rate of physical impairment moving between 70 and 100 euros and about 30 per cent of the monthly amount of physical damage. The amount by which an individual cannot even cover the costs of supplementary insurance. However, according to the right-wing tribunal, it was obvious that this was too much, and the view shared with them also a political environment that did not correct injustices against disabled persons in eight years. It is common to the right and the middle to take priority in reducing taxes for the rich and by subsidising capital, with rights for the poor, and the disabled are vulnerable groups that risk poverty by jumping. In Levica we support the novel, which gives people with disabilities a return on disability, but at the same time we warn them that the amounts remain low, too low, so the disabled are too often, very often deep in poverty, and Slovenia is far from the social state. As long as we talk about the weakest in our society, and these people with disabilities certainly are, we should be a priority issue when we eliminate social and human injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a bill on the payment of the non-payment of the aid and the payment of services under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for a law establishing equality between individuals who have received a child care allowance during a certain period and individuals who have received an allowance for assistance and service. The purpose of the bill is also to pay to blind persons who have not received an aid and service allowance in the past, because their parents have decided to apply an allowance for the care of the child, an unpaid allowance shall be paid for the assistance and service provided that they have complied with the conditions. The proposal for a law is based on the model of the Law on the Payment of the Child’s Unpaid Child Care Supplement, since families are treated differently in comparable situations, and the existing legislation treats them differently. By means of the proposed arrangements, a blind person who has been medically insured under another insurance scheme of the Slovenian Pension and Disability Insurance Institute shall be entitled to payment of the unpaid allowance for the aid and the service if, at any time between 1 January 2003 and 31 December 2016, he has met the conditions for obtaining the allowance but has not received it because one of the parents or the other person has received an allowance for the care of the child. The amount recognised for each month when the person met the conditions shall be EUR 300. The amount of the aid and service allowance applicable from 1 January 2019 is higher than the amounts applicable from 2003 to 2016 and therefore the proposal does not provide for the reimbursement of late interest. The right to payment of the unpaid aid and service allowance shall be exercised at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia on the basis of an application within one year of the entry into force of this Act and may be applied by its legal successors in the event of the death of the beneficiary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a bill on the payment of the unpaid allowance for assistance and services submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. The representative of the applicants presented the objectives of the draft law, a representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons said that the Commission supported the proposal of the law. They are aware that in this way those individuals and their families, who have been misled by the State authorities on the basis of incorrect interpretation of the legal provisions on the possibility of exercising the full scope of their rights, will finally have more than the necessary means of facilitating their lives. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system from a legislative and technical point of view, and was presented by their representative. She said that the amendments tabled in part followed their opinion, dismissed the comment on Article 3 of the bill, Article 7, which lays down the legal basis for the processing of the personal data of beneficiaries, was partially improved by the amendments, but was not yet fully in line with the requirements laid down by the Constitutional Court in the broad constitutional judgment of Article 38 of the Constitution in relation to the processing of personal data. Representatives of the candidates expressed their support for the bill with the desire to implement it as soon as possible, since it is a dedicated supplement that will make life easier for the blind who belong to the most socially disadvantaged groups of the population. It was pointed out that it was right to eliminate past bureaucratic complications or wrong legal interpretations with a view to ensuring equality of treatment and equal inclusion of persons with disabilities in all segments of society. In the debate, all the discussers stressed that the amendment of the law regulates the rights of one of the most vulnerable groups of insurers and therefore announced support for the bill. It has been pointed out that it is right to resolve this area, but it is important not to forget that many areas of vulnerable groups still need to be regulated. Because of misinterpretation, the exercise of the right to an allowance for the care of a child, which is the right of parents or guardians, and the right to an allowance for assistance and service, which is the right of the child, has been prevented. When the Supreme Labour and Social Court ruled that the interpretation was illegal, that the additives were not excluded, it was necessary to correct those injustices. It was pointed out that the debate started at the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, which adopted the conclusions, including the conclusion that the competent ministry would prepare amendments to the law. This happened in 2019 when the injustice was partially eliminated and partially eliminated by this novel. The proposed novelty therefore regulates the payment of the unpaid aid and service allowances to which families have been entitled who have decided to apply the child care allowance and not the allowance for assistance and service. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and unanimously adopted them. A further proposal has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. At this meeting, we have the prospect of supporting a law that corrects injustice and eliminates injustices that have occurred to the most vulnerable persons who have been entitled to justice because of misinterpretation of legal matter. It seems absurd, but it's true. It took more than 12 years to misinterpret the law by which the aid and service allowance and the care allowance were to be excluded. Such instructions were given by state authorities and civil society, to which families with blind or visually impaired children turned for advice, as well as social work centres that issued decisions on these rights. Many families were misled, and they had to decide only one of the rights. Despite their official interpretation, those families who were persistent enough have applied for both rights. The practice of social work centres was different. Some have been denied one of the applications and some have been granted both rights. The latter was later followed by this accident that the country had to make a difference, despite the fact that both supplements belonged to its parents all the time. However, it was clear to some social workers that these two rights were not excluded, because they were different for the purpose and by the beneficiaries. As a result, some parents turned to the court. In 2012, the Supreme Labour and Social Court decided that the right to an allowance for the care of a child is the right of parents and of an indirect child, while the right to an allowance for assistance and service is a personal right acquired by blind persons, i.e. children. However, it is a matter of direct concern that only three years later, the competent ministry of the Centre for Social Work has notified this information. No one knows why this kind of practice. The Ombudsman also warned for years that the child’s care and support and service allowances are not excluded, but are based on a different factual and legal basis. The Ombudsman also took action to pay back the injustice and drew attention to due regard in the exercise of rights from public funds. The consequences of errors of public authorities or holders of public powers cannot simply be passed on to individuals. Three years ago, we also discussed solving the problems raised by the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. The proposed law therefore regulates today the payment of unpaid aid and service allowances to which families who have in the past decided to apply an allowance for the care of the child and not an aid and service allowance. Thus, a new person will be entitled to payment of an unpaid allowance for aid and service if, at any time during the period between 1 January 2003 and 31 December 2016, in accordance with the then applicable legislation governing pension and disability insurance, he fulfils the conditions for obtaining an allowance for assistance and service and has not received it because one of his parents has received an allowance for the care of the child. The right to pay the outstanding aid and service allowance will be recognised to the beneficiary for the period during which he met the conditions mentioned above. For 2018 and 2019, the allowance for aid and services for blind persons from 1 January 2019 onwards shall be EUR 300 and this amount shall be due to the beneficiary for each month when the conditions for receiving the aid and service allowance have been met and he did not receive it. The proposal for a bill on the payment of the unpaid allowance for assistance and service will be supported by the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u258	President, thank you for your word. Hello again! The bill solves the problem of unpaid supplements for help and services faced by parents of blind and visually impaired children. In 2003, the novelty of the pension law came into force, on the basis of which the social work centres, based on the opinion of the Health Insurance Institute, requested parents to choose between the child care allowance and the allowance for assistance and service. Nevertheless, some social work centres paid both allowances to their parents, and the State later claimed the parental contributions received as a creditor. The decision of one of the parents to try to exercise her right in the proceedings was prompted by a case-by-case decision of the Supreme Labour and Social Court in 2012. This has ruled that the right to an allowance for the care of a child under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act is the right of parents and indirect children who need special care and protection, the right to an allowance for assistance and service under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is a personal right acquired by blind persons, i.e. children. Not long ago, we adopted a similar marriage in this house. The Child Care Allowance Act has addressed those families who have decided to apply the aid and service allowance, and today the other side of the same coin is ahead of us, and we recognize the right to those who have decided to apply the child care allowance and not to enforce the aid and service allowance. Thus, for the period between 1 January 2003 and 31 December 2016, beneficiaries will be paid, for each month, when they met the conditions for payment of the aid allowance and the service for the blind, an amount of the aid allowance and a service of EUR 300 free of late interest will be paid to the beneficiaries. The right is exercised at the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, which will also pay the latter. The estimated financial impact in 2021 is €1.5 million. Many discussions and discussions between the policy and the various stakeholders ultimately led to the point where we are today. We support the bill in the parliamentary group, but the fact remains that the money paid to parents will not be able to correct all the pressures they have experienced due to the misinterpretation of the law and the slow functioning of the state apparatus. In order to avoid such and similar cases in the future, we need to manage state institutions more effectively and develop better public policies with a faster response to change. However, personal responsibility must not be neglected. By strengthening the relationship between citizens and institutions, we also strengthen the confidence of citizens and citizens in public systems and services, and trust is the foundation of democracy and what helps to preserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Say hello to everyone again! In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a bill on the payment of the unpaid allowance for assistance and service, as it eliminates another injustice caused by the misinterpretation of the provider of payments of this transfer to blind and visually impaired children since 2003. In accordance with the interpretation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and the instructions sent to the centres for social work, children with the problems mentioned or their parents had only the right to apply selectively or the right to an allowance for assistance and service under the pension legislation or an allowance for the care of the child under the legislation of parental protection. That is not the case, it has been established on the basis of a judicial decision not to compare both legal options, since these are two separate rights from completely different legal addresses and purposes, with the child’s allowance being intended for parents to cover increased living expenses, while the allowance for assistance and service is a personal right of the child because it needs additional assistance and service. Ex-Minister of Mag. Ksenija Klampfer prepared a solution in 2019, which was also supported by 89 at the meeting of the present Members. Unfortunately, this solution has only partially solved the injustice. The legal solution that we adopted a good year and a half ago settled the situation only for those children whose parents failed to apply an allowance for care. So the guilt just wasn't completely over. The present proposal will also arrange for the payment of unpaid aid and service allowances to which families who decided to apply a second choice in accordance with the interpretation at the time, i.e. a child care allowance, have been entitled. By approving the proposal for this law, families will be finally and completely equalised, and at the same time, according to our assessment, they will also be financially satisfied, as the country is prepared to pay an amount higher than that which is valid as an aid and service allowance in 2003 and later. In the Desus Group, we regret all the situations that happen to people due to official mistakes, non-professional decisions or incompletely prepared legal solutions, causing many hardships and injustices to completely innocent people. As we say, the marriage has our support. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u261	Thank you very much. It is Yuri Lepo, who will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thanks again for the word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With the proposal for a bill on the payment of the unpaid allowance for assistance and service, we are correcting the injustices for the return. Guilts arising from non-constant legislation or its irregular and, in particular, inhuman interpretation, which for a number of years made it impossible to receive an allowance equivalent to that for the care of the child and an allowance for assistance and service. As the Supreme Court has also found, these supplements do not exclude each other because they come from a different factual and legal basis. This has been repeatedly pointed out by the Ombudsman in his reports and by the affected parents or their children, who have been severely disadvantaged as a result. A similar injustice was abolished by the National Assembly in 2019 by the adoption of the Law on the Payment of the Child’s Unpaid Child Care Allowance, while the right to an allowance for assistance and services obtained in this case by blind children has not yet been adequately resolved. The adoption of the law, which is on our table today, will finally eliminate the consequences for all those who have been deprived of it. The consequences of the mistakes made by the State authorities cannot simply be passed on to individuals, as has been the case in the case of unpaid child care allowances and for assistance and services. That is why it is now in place to apologize to all those who have been affected and disadvantaged for this series of years. Individuals and their families, who have been misled by the State authorities on the basis of incorrect interpretation of the legal provisions on the possibility of exercising the full scope of their rights, will finally come up with more than the necessary means to facilitate their lives or social status. We welcome the law in question, and of course we will support it, and at the same time we express our expectation that we will no longer face such retroactive acts and the correction of injustices in return in the future. These are vulnerable members of our society, for whom the country has committed itself to the care and relief of their problems and shortcomings, which make them more difficult and difficult to involve in our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u264	Your Honor! The amendment removes the anomaly, as the rights of one of the more vulnerable groups of insurers, namely the blind, are governed. At the same time, we need to be aware that the allowance for help and service belongs only to blind and visually impaired children and that others are left out with problems in physical and mental development that are entirely dependent on the help of their parents. The latter issue will also need to be discussed and written down as soon as possible, put on our parliamentary tables. A 300-euro dedicated allowance for each month, when meeting the conditions, will make daily life easier for both blind people and their families. The past bureaucratic delusions and misinterpretations suffered by socially disadvantaged groups are expected to be eliminated. In view of the wrong, ignorant interpretation, the exercise of the right to an allowance for the care of the child and the right to an allowance for assistance and service was prevented at the same time. The Higher Labour and Social Court decided nine years ago that the case was illegal because the additives were not excluded, so today we should correct the injustices caused, as the Ombudsman also pointed out. The procedure for the recognition of the right to payment of the supplement and the basis for its payment in the event of the death of the beneficiary, where the application is submitted by its legal successors, is also laid down. Payment will not be taxable and therefore will not be included in the income taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. In the Slovenian National Party in the future, we want to see the pressing cases resolved from the front, not through slow legal mills, and that there will be as few retroactive legal proceedings as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, welcome, distinguished Members of Parliament, honourable Members! Today we have before us the proposal for a bill on the payment of the unpaid allowance for assistance and service. While this is a very small change in the law, it is an extremely important change in the law, because we are correcting the long-standing injustice of those individuals who were not covered by the Unpaid Child Care Supplement Act, where I did everything, as President of the Human Rights Commission, to correct the injustice that affected the blind and the visually impaired, after a long calvary. At that time, I accepted the parents of blind and visually impaired children when they — you will remember — I said this many times, but it is right — in the rain they protested in front of the National Assembly. Then I accepted them, listened to them, heard them, and since then we all know the story together, the injustice has been corrected. And that is what counts, that is, the actions of the national assembly, which at that time decided that injustice really needed to be rectified. However, I would like to draw attention here to how long, in fact, a remedy of injustice takes. In 2012, the Higher Labour and Social Court said that the supplements were not excluded and that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and Social Work Centres had made a huge mistake because they had misinterpreted the law, while at the same time giving different information to parents, which was totally unacceptable. For a long time, even as President of the Commission, and now as Chairman of the Labour Committee, I would like to point out that there is a need for protocols and information at the social work centres to be unified, otherwise we can always have a problem again. Different information from social work centres has not only happened in this case of blind and visually impaired people, but also in some other cases, and it is right to point out that such unacceptable anomalies, which cause great problems to those affected by the information, would no longer occur. By means of the law we have under consideration, we therefore want to establish a legal basis for the payment of unpaid allowances for assistance and service for those who have received only an allowance for the care of the child because they have been told that the allowances are being excluded. The bill therefore aligns the rights of families who have in the past decided to apply an allowance for the care of the child and not an allowance for assistance and service, and follows those who have already done so in 2019 in the Law on the Payment of the Unpaid Child Care Supplement. I am very pleased that today or tomorrow, when we vote on another part of the beneficiaries, we will correct the injustice caused, but here I note that there are still a number of similar injustices from the social field that need to be rectified. They're waiting for this repair, and I hope we can fix them soon. We will certainly support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Your Honor! Today, Members and Members will eliminate the injustices that have been committed in the past to parents of blind and visually impaired children in connection with receiving the aid and service allowance. A similar law, except that at the time it regulated the payment of unpaid child care allowances, had already been drawn up by the government of Marjan Šarc in 2019. They are important because in 2003 there was a misinterpretation of legislation that had unacceptable consequences. Parents had to make a decision when receiving one of the two supplements, namely, between the allowance for help and the service or the allowance for the care of the child, even though they were actually entitled to both. This situation lasted until 2016. As we pointed out in the letter of Marjan Šarc when the first law was passed two years ago, it seems to us completely but totally unacceptable that there has been a misinterpretation of the law at all. We can only imagine all the hardships, sufferings, and efforts of parents who have fought for their legal rights. Of course, we cannot go beyond the question of responsibility in this place. This is likely to remain an unanswered question forever, but it is important that it should never come to this again. We also appeal to the competent ministry to ensure that all beneficiaries are informed and accessible to the application of additives. We must not afford that because of the late transmission of forms or something similar, one should lose what is actually his legal property. Such practices of non-information by the State have also been seen in the implementation of anti-Korona legislation. We can only hope that nothing like this will happen again. In the List of Marjan Šarca, we have advocated the elimination of injustices and the protection of the most vulnerable groups since our entry into politics. At the time of the operation of our government, we have proved that we know and can do this. In the short term, we have taken a number of measures to help many groups of people. We are pleased that the law on the payment of the unpaid aid allowance and the service will be supported by all parliamentary groups. However, at this point, I cannot pass the consideration of the law at the meeting of the parent working body, where cheap populism and the praise of the elected members of the coalition and, of course, their eternal footnotes on how the previous governments have done nothing, work alone and exclusively their government. This could be avoided by Members at least on a topic such as the elimination of injustices in return. This, of course, is just our humble proposal to them. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we will, of course, support the law that is before us today. The law will therefore arrange for the payment of unpaid allowances for assistance and services to blind persons who have been medically insured after the institution’s insurance and during the period from 1. 1. 2003 to 31. 12. 2016 was not entitled to this supplement because their parents received an allowance for the care of the child. For each month when the beneficiary fulfils the conditions, the amount of the aid and service allowance shall be EUR 300. As we say, we will support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! Social Democrats, we support the bill regulating the payment of the unpaid allowance for aid and service. This law definitively equates the rights of all families with blind or visually impaired children, as it regulates the other side of the problem created by the inappropriate interpretation of the law regarding the payment of the allowance for assistance and service and the allowance for the care of the child at the same time. After the decision of the Court, blind or visually impaired persons belong to both of them at the same time. The Child Care Allowance Act, adopted in November 2019, regulated the payment of the unpaid allowance for families who have decided to exercise the right to an allowance for assistance and service, while the proposed law regulates the payment of the unpaid allowance for families who have decided to exercise the right to an allowance for the care of the child. It is estimated that about 25 families will receive the supplement. Thus, the beneficiary will receive, for each month when fulfilling the conditions under the law, payment of the aid and service allowance of EUR 300. Families with blind or visually impaired children are certainly in a difficult and invisible position. It is very difficult to imagine their situation, which requires a lot of abandonment and patience from parents. Many of them desire to provide their children with special needs with the best possible care and care, even to give up their careers, and to give full attention to the care of their children. That is why we support the proposals that other children with special needs, who also need 24-hour care and protection, should be entitled to an allowance for assistance and care governed by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, PPIZ-2. The fact is, if a child lives at home and not in a institution, he is cared for by parents who often have no other help in caring for and caring for children with special needs. This does not even belong to them under the Personal Assistance Act, since underage disabled children do not have the right to personal assistance because they are entitled to it only after they have reached the age of 18. It is important that a country with various family policy measures contributes to the quality of life of all children and families. This is especially true of vulnerable families who care for children with special needs. These families need to be provided with adequate material assistance and support for their inclusion in society. The main task of the social state is to provide such assistance to vulnerable groups with special needs in order to enable them to live a decent and quality life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The word is given by Violeta Tomić, who will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. Parents of blind and visually impaired children are entitled to two supplements, a child care allowance and an allowance for assistance and service. These two rights are not excluded and this has also been confirmed in 2012 by the Supreme Labour and Social Court. In contrast, parents of blind and visually impaired children have since 2003 been forced by social work centres to choose between the allowance for help and service and the allowance for the child, and families who received both supplements by 2003 had to give up one. This means that these families have lost up to 200 euros a month in the last 18 years. It is a huge financial damage to families with blind and visually impaired children. In these cases, a large proportion are single - parent families. Many of these families lived or lived through a miserable period. Every euro in this period has been crucial to the well-being and development of the child. This lost supplement parents could use to develop, for therapy, to help the child, today, 18 years later, in many cases it is unfortunately too late. Parents, of course, protested against this injustice, and the Higher Labour and Social Court upheld them. However, it took almost three years before the competent authorities informed the competent authorities of the correct interpretation of the law in practice, following a judgment of 2012 in order not to exclude the additive. Parents who could at least have received what they owned by law since 2012 were thus still deprived. In 2019, 16 years after the first injustice occurred, the Government prepared and the National Assembly adopted a law that paid back all outstanding child care allowances to parents, but not an unpaid allowance for help and service. That the law adopted in 2019 did not provide the basis for the payment of the unpaid aid and service allowances, the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly warned in vain at that time. We really hope that this time, after 18 years, the government will finally draw up a law that will finally correct these injustices. But we must be aware that this long-standing injustice did not rob parents of only money, and they were also deprived of time, money, and opportunity to offer more to their child during this long period. Therefore, this law does not really correct injustices; it does not provide for compensation for all the injured parents and their children; it merely brings back what was unlawfully taken from them. The country of damage, which is truly immeasurable, does not even try to eliminate this law. After rectification, injustice does not require what it requires of all the inhabitants. We all have to pay late interest on outstanding claims, either for payment of invoices or for a traffic ticket. Any, even a small debt owed to a person by the State can be recovered effectively and at the expense of the debtor together with any late interest. Therefore, the Ministry should also find a way not only to pay back the unpaid allowance but also to determine in some way the amount of compensation for these parents. Only then could it be said that this is a real remedy for injustice. Nevertheless, we hope that parents will gain at least a fraction of the rights under this law, and we will support this proposal in Levica. However, we are appalled at the lack of response and inefficiency of the Ministry in this case. We needed 18 years and 7.5 million for blind children, and for banks four years and five billion. I wonder who this country is protecting and which constitution it fulfils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will also present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. The community is as powerful as its weakest individual. The company must ensure that no individual or group lives below the social security threshold. This government is aware of this, and we are taking steps to resolve problems that all previous governments have not wanted or were unable to deal with. By adopting the Act on the payment of the unpaid aid and service allowance, we establish a legal basis for payment of allowances for blind persons from the beginning of 2003 to the end of 2016. These people haven't had what they belong to in 14 years. This government and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities save this. All those belonging to this supplement will be paid back, amounting to 300 euros for each month. The application for payment of outstanding aid and service allowances will have to be submitted by the beneficiaries to the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance within one year of the application of this Act. If the beneficiary has already died, his legal successors may also apply for the exercise of the right. The late interest will not be charged as the State will pay the beneficiaries a higher amount of the allowance than it was fixed in 2003 and beyond. The proposal is based on the model of the Law on the Payment of Unpaid Child Care Supplement, which regulates the reverse situation when the beneficiaries decided to apply an aid and service allowance and were therefore not entitled to an allowance for the care of the child. Social security is based on the basic idea of solidarity. The Community avoids risks that an individual could never solve. The basic forms of solidarity are assistance and support in the inner circle — in the family, among friends, between neighbors and in private communities. We are also aware of the contribution and support of voluntary NGOs, which, through their innovation, flexibility and adaptation of services and user needs programmes, represent a complement to the public sector and contribute significantly to social well-being and greater social security. Disabled persons are an important part of our society and belong to it. They must be able to shape their own everyday life. Integration must be present throughout society. Disability shall not constitute a risk of poverty for disabled persons and their closest or for social exclusion. It is very important for people with disabilities to be able to cover at least partially their costs by work, so we advocate their involvement in work and in society and independent life. We need more openness in hiring people with disabilities. In New Slovenia – we will support the proposal of the Christian Democrats and eliminate another injustice that the previous politicians did not want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law to encourage the use of renewable energies within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u276	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give a brief explanation for the law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a proposal for a new law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources which transposes the provisions of the new Directive 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. The Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Sources of Energy provides substantively for the implementation of the policy of the State and the municipalities in the field of the use of renewable energy sources, sets targets in the field of renewable resources and measures to achieve these objectives and ways of financing them. The law also regulates a certificate of origin, self-supply with electricity and renewable resources, renewable energy communities, renewable energy use in the heating and cooling sector and in the transport sector. The current area of renewable resources is governed by the Energy Act, EZ-1. In addition, frequent amendments to European legislation, and the increasingly detailed and extensive regulation of sectoral matter, are increasing the scope of the content covered by the EC-1 and thus the need to constantly amend the existing law. Due to its scope, the matter regulated by EZ-1 became increasingly opaque. It was also becoming increasingly difficult to ensure timely transposition of the directives into the Slovenian legal order. For this reason, it has been shown that there is a need for the legislative regulation of energy to be divided into a number of separate laws following the structure of the legal regulation of these contents in the secondary legislation of the European Union. This is also followed by a proposal for a law that excludes the field of renewable energy sources from EZ-1 and regulates it independently. The basic objective of the bill is to promote the use of renewable energy in all sectors of energy production and consumption. We are therefore pursuing the objective of climate neutral society and the greening of our economy and society. Some major changes to the law. The Act sets out an annual starting share of the EEE, which must not be less than 25 %, while the overall 2030 target and the interim technology targets are set in the NEPN. The law regulates the support scheme and in this context also the content relating to declarations for production facilities and certificates of origin. The law also provides for the operation of a support centre, i.e. a compulsory public economic service operating funds. On the basis of the concession, Borzen will continue to perform this service. The law also provides for compensation to local communities for the use of wind room. In the area of self-sustainment, there are significant changes in relation to the existing scheme. The final customers will have to pay the network for all the energy they take from the network, while at the same time they will be paid for the surpluses. From the point of view of spatial regulation, it is stipulated in the law that planning operators and network operators must take into account the promotion of EEE in developing and positioning. A contact point shall also be established to assist the applicant in the process of obtaining licences. In the area of heating and cooling is a new ban on the design and construction of boilers on heating oil, lubricants and coal after 2023. In the case of remote heating systems, the objective is to increase the share of EEE by 1% per year, the obligation to draw up sustainable plans and the possibility of disengageing the customer from energy-efficient systems after 2025. In the case of the integration of renewable energy into the market, it is stipulated that up to 2030 a share of at least 14 % from renewable sources will be achieved and the share in each year must not fall below 10 %. The adoption of the law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy is therefore crucial for the implementation of measures in this field and for the achievement of the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u277	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u278	Your Honor! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 30th session. 6. 2021 As a parent working body, the proposal for a law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and decision following a regular procedure. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure Blaž Kosorok pointed out that the basic objective of the bill is to promote the use of renewable energy in all sectors of energy production and use, thus pursuing the objective of a climate neutral society and the greening of our economy and society. As a key substantive solution, he pointed out, inter alia, that the draft law sets out an annual baseline share of renewable energy sources, which must not be less than 25%, while the overall target by 2030 and the interim targets by technology after years are set in the comprehensive national energy and climate plan. Substantial changes are taking place in the area of self-sustainment according to the existing scheme, as final customers will have to pay the network for all the energy they take from the network, while at the same time they will be paid for the surpluses. Payments of the proportional share of the contribution to renewable energy resources and the contribution to energy efficiency will be exempt. Among other things, the time limit for the duration of the authorisation is set for a total of not more than two years and for production plants up to 150 kW for a maximum of one year. In the case of the integration of renewable energy into the market, it provides that by 2030 a share of at least 14 % of renewable energy sources will be achieved and that the share of each year must not fall below 10 %. The representative of Valentina Marolt's Legal and Legislative Service explained that they had made comments to a certain article in a written opinion, which were duly taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups. With regard to the definition of two terms, a proposal for an electricity supply law was subsequently introduced, in which both terms are also clarified. The Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supports and, inter alia, assesses that the proposed legal solutions are appropriate and notes positively that the Ministry of Infrastructure has previously coordinated the proposal with all three representative associations of municipalities. In the short discussion, several comments were made by the Levica Group on the content of the draft law, inter alia, as regards the provisions of Article 4, paragraph 3, whereby each type of electricity production from renewable sources and the construction and acquisition of facilities and land needed for it would be of public benefit. In their view, increasing the capacity to produce renewable energy is essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but this cannot always be of public benefit as renewable energy sources can also have many negative environmental and social consequences. Thus, the reckless installation and construction of renewable energy production capacities, in particular the construction of large hydropower plants, can be devastating for many animal and plant habitats. Similarly, the construction and production of renewable energy resources cannot be of public benefit when it has a significant impact on other sectors of the economy, such as tourism, and reduces the quality of life of the inhabitants and residents in their surroundings. Among other things, they objected to the provision of Article 13, paragraph 20, which provides that, in order to maintain the sustainability of the financing of the support scheme, the Government may limit the annual installed power of the production facilities to renewable energy sources which may be supported if the proportion of such production facilities exceeds the planned volume of installed installations in the national energy and climate plan adopted for that year. In their view, this is unacceptable as an increase in the share of renewable energy sources is one of the key conditions for achieving carbon neutrality. After discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the coalition groups to Article 8 of the bill and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u279	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Reich, who will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u280	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! Green development breakthroughs and sustainable transitions are two key priorities of our time in which renewable energy sources will play one of the more crucial roles. We know that by 2020, the use of renewable energy should have increased to a good 25%, but we have failed. Mechanisms must be put in place to improve our results, as the national energy and climate plan is also committed to this, and this will also be assisted by the present law, the law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. In the SAB party, we want a strong social state, and a strong social state is only possible with a strong economy. That is why we always advocate that electricity supply must be sustainable, reliable and cost-effective, carbon-free, home-based and technology-based. We must promote and push the path of digitisation and economic development, which is the foundation of our prosperity and a strong social state. A strategically sound and well-guided transition to renewable energy in Slovenia will bring a competitive advantage to the economy and provide us with long-term energy security. Every incentive to move faster to renewable energy sources. That is why we also welcome this law. Self-sustainment is the basis of energy security and enables the involvement of consumers who are becoming final and active customers. There's more of these from day to day. Regrettably, in practice, the existing law has shown a preference for individual self-sustainment, i.e. in the practice of installing photovoltaic modules on the roof of the house, group forms of self-sustainment are virtually not implemented. At present, all of the group units installed are only for the sample and individuals have a strong predominance. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the law in the SAB Party to deal with the work of the parent body to address the problems faced mainly by residents in multi-housing buildings. They pay contributions to promote the use of renewable energy sources, but for practical reasons such as the inability to obtain the consent of the high-level owners, they cannot do so. If our amendment had been adopted, such occupants could have installed a self-sustainment device on public or private premises or land located within the area of the common low-voltage transformer station. By supplementing the law in the SAB, we wanted to contribute to speeding up the transition and increasing the share of renewable energy sources mainly in settlements. Thus, tenants in multi-housing buildings and settlements, as well as those living in individual facilities, could become active customers. Given that our proposal has not been adopted, it would make sense for the Ministry to exempt the payment of the contribution to renewable energy by those who cannot carry out the related measures in practice or the procedure is so difficult to stop. The law is good, it reflects the position of the profession, so we regret that our amendment has not been adopted, which would have improved it, and it has made it easier for people to contribute to achieving the objectives of renewable energy. Nevertheless, we will give support to the SAB Group of Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We Slovenians love our green land, we love our planet, but we can say that we hold the claim that this planet, our land, we consider our land to be something self-evident. Policy alone is certainly not enough to protect the environment effectively, and it is essential to take care of the planet for every individual. In order to achieve ambitious objectives, environmental and climate policy must become a key part of every policy and every policy decision in Slovenia and thus also raise awareness of each individual. The European Green Agreement sets out the path for Europe to become the first climate neutral continent by 2050. It presents a new sustainable and inclusive strategy for growth, aimed at stimulating the economy, improving the health and quality of life of people and ensuring the preservation of our living environment. As experts warn, but everyone is silently aware of this today, failure to act would have a devastating effect on nature and, consequently, on ourselves. Higher temperatures and more extreme weather events that we are witnessing already have consequences for the economy and the ability of countries to produce food. In the future, this can escalate into devastating consequences. It is therefore essential that we take a serious approach to reducing emissions, decarbonisation and a higher share of renewable energy. Renewable energy sources include all energy sources covered by the soil natural processes, sun, wind, water, photosynthesis. They never disappear in nature, for they are restored quite quickly and are fairly evenly distributed and leave no dirt, exhaust or toxic waste behind them. Investment in renewable energy projects, smart grids and smart communities is essential to achieving carbon. In Slovenia today the most important renewable energy source is wood biomass, followed by water energy, and in recent years development has been most dynamic in the use of solar energy and biogas. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the project of the so-called green transition must be necessarily comprehensive, so it must cover all social areas. The key to the development of the new industry not only in the world but also in us will be renewable energy sources. According to our assessment, the bill is designed to promote the use of these energy sources in all sectors of energy production and consumption, and we consider this proposal to be appropriate. I should only mention the key novelty of the proposal in the area of self-sustainment of electricity from renewable energy sources. That is, after the expiry of the transitional period, this is 31 times. 12. 2023, the distribution operator will no longer register final customers with self-sustainment in such a way that the network is paid only from the difference between dedicated and received energy. Thus, final customers will have to pay the network for all the energy they take from the network. At the same time, they will receive a payment for surpluses, while at the same time exempting payments of a proportionate share of the contribution to renewable energy sources and the contribution to energy efficiency. As already mentioned, Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal for a law to promote the use of renewable energy sources. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good evening! The basic objective of today's proposal is to increase the use of renewable energy sources in energy production as well as in propulsion fuels, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions, to transpose the requirements of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order and to update the system for promoting the use of renewable energy in all areas. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support in particular the following measures: the renewal of the renewable energy support system and its extension to other types of energy; the more detailed regulation of international renewable electricity projects; the regulation of self-sustainment of electricity from renewable sources; the integration of renewable energy into heating and cooling; the establishment of stricter requirements for renewable fuels; and the simplification of administrative procedures; and the establishment of a single point of contact to assist investors in renewable energy projects. This will be the best way to encourage the use of renewable energy sources. The bill leads towards a cleaner energy transition, which will have a positive impact on environmental protection in our country. The increased share of renewable resources in production and consumption is expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which will be very favourable for climate change. We also believe that these measures are pursuing the objective of a climate neutral country and the greening of our economy and society. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we are confident that the proposed changes will strengthen the Slovenian economy and developmental energy planning mainly due to new investments in renewable sources production facilities and electrical storage facilities. The increase in business opportunities due to these investments will boost employment. Green transition in the energy field is a key challenge for this generation due to the benefits of many other areas of social life. There is a great deal of attention to be paid to cohesion and the integration of the various energy sectors in order to respond adequately to future challenges. This is the only way we will be successful in pursuing the renewable energy targets set out in the National Energy and Climate Plan. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to another problem. In setting up self-sustainment facilities at multi-housing facilities, it is necessary to obtain the consent of all floor owners. In most cases, and considering the mentality, the 100 % consensus cannot be reached, so that most photovoltaic devices are installed on one-bedroom buildings and large roofs of residential blocks cannot exploit this potential. Blockers, despite paying contributions and incentives to the system, cannot benefit from community self-sustainment measures that are always and for all of the opposing neighbours. We therefore propose and appeal to the competent authorities that this problem be resolved in a short time, in a way that reduces the percentage of the necessary consents of the high-level owners to 50% when setting up self-sustainment facilities at multi-housing facilities. We have called for this recently, but there has been no hearing among our decision-makers. Unfortunately, for a real breakthrough, it will first have to be found that in this area, the rest of the European Union countries have overtaken us on the left and right, and it may be possible to create conditions for us to have energy-producing roofs in order to lower power stations and reduce pollution. Non-aligned Members will be supported by the proposal for a law to promote the use of renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will again present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u286	I'm glad you noticed, Mr. Vice President, this is the last time I've heard from a speaker today. The contents of the Law are largely linked to the congregation’s tasks, so it is important that municipal officials from various departments think so, since the law also interferes with the regulation of the premises. We believe that placement should be a place of state-of-the-art facilities, energy infrastructure regulated by the Space Regulation Act, as this would maintain the possibility of transparency of complex procedures, the legal security of the participants. We have noted that greater attention is being paid to self-sustainment, which could be regulated by the Energy Act by extending Article 115.a. Reliable, safe and sustainable electricity supply is important in terms of preventing social poverty. It seems relevant to us that the Agency rejects the recognition of the certificate of origin if it rightly doubts the accuracy, reliability or credibility of the certificate. In the Slovenian National Party, we are also convinced that the promotion of the use of renewable energy provided by the State is most affected by favourable financial incentives, as it is generally in life and in business that everything begins and ends with money. Other aspects, social aspects, environmental protection, in particular reduction of releases, preservation of cultural heritage can also be taken into account when determining ways to promote and the level of support. The law in a somewhat unclear way sets the share of renewable resources at baseline at 25% as set out for 2020. If the country does not reach one or more national reference values to achieve the share of energy from renewable sources, or if from 1. 1. 2021 no longer retains a baseline share of 25 %, the Government may make a financial contribution to the Union mechanism for financing renewable energy. Every three years, the Ministry shall adopt an enabling programme to promote and facilitate the development of the EEE community, including ensuring accessibility to all final customers. The second paragraph of Article 46 points to a lack of understanding of the substance of the normative activity, as the fact that the law requires that rules contain transparency, proportionality, that they should not distinguish between applicants of the requirements points to a social problem. When planning, designing and limiting the use of energy in space, priority should be given primarily to renewable sources from fossil sources, as well as to a gas pipeline system with a higher share of renewable gas in the system. Article 51 provides the basis for the operation of the contact point which performs the task of directing, assisting, advising and informing the applicant, from the submission of the request to the final decision. In so doing, he shall not act as an agent or an agent of an investor in an administrative or other procedure. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely agree that the design and construction of the boiler shall be prohibited on fuel oil, on oil and coal, unless it is part of the industrial or manufacturing process.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u287	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Franci Kepa, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u288	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for a law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources with regard to the transition to a carbon neutral society is one of the very important laws, as it will pave the way for this objective. The purpose of the law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources, the EES, is to harmonise the national legal order with European Union law. The law transposes the legislative acts of the Clean Energy package into the Slovenian legal order for all Europeans. The Clean Energy package provides for the transition of the European Union to a carbon neutral society by the end of 2050. To achieve this objective, the OVE Directive sets a common target by the end of 2030, achieving at least 32 % of OVE in gross final energy use in the European Union countries. The basic objectives of the bill are: to increase the use of renewable energy sources in the production of all kinds of energy and also in propulsion fuels; to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; to transpose the requirements of Directive 2018/2001 into the Slovenian legal order; to update the system for promoting the use of renewable energy sources in all areas of production and use of energy. The other objectives of the draft law relating to the basic objective are to: to renovate the system of support for the use of renewable energy sources and to extend it to other types of energy; to regulate in more detail joint renewable energy projects with other Member States as well as with third countries; to regulate self-sustainment of electricity from renewable energy sources in more detail; to regulate communities in the field of renewable energy production; to achieve certain administrative simplifications and to establish a single point of contact for renewable energy projects; to integrate renewable energy into heating and cooling; to establish stricter requirements for propulsion fuels in transport. The bill will have certain implications in the field of public administration and will simplify the communication of investors as parties to the proceedings, as they will only communicate with a single contact point. The proposal will also have a favourable impact on the environment. The positive impact of the bill's proposal on the economy is expected due to new investments in production facilities on renewable sources and electricity storage facilities from these sources. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u290	Thank you, Vice President. Representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! The time we live in, especially the way we live our lives, is the reason that the energy needs that drive our lives and the world increase from day to day. If we look around and think about what's connected to electricity, we find that there's almost nothing that doesn't need electricity to function. And, of course, the use of this energy also has its debt, which unfortunately appears to be a negative impact on our environment and climate. The solutions or alternatives to the current energies are renewable sources of energy that we can use unlimitedly to make their exploitation have negative consequences on the quality and way of life. The Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy is, in the view of the applicants, a law that will make a significant contribution to the use of OVE, as we call it, an increase. There are two reasons why we have the marriage mentioned today. The first is that the legislation of this area needs to be updated and updated, and the second reason why we have a special law is that the matter of the Energy Act, part of which concerns the use of renewable energy sources, has become increasingly extensive and complex. By transferring the legal matter relating to renewable energy to a special law, we also agree in our parliamentary group. But what are the proposed solutions that marriage brings? The proposers have divided the solutions into nine chapters, which regulate the general provisions of terms, regulate international cooperation mechanisms, define electricity self-sustainment, promote the use of EEE and lay down measures to integrate energy from EEE into heating and cooling. The proposed law and its solutions are extensive in nature, indicating that the area of regulation of use and promotion of renewable energy sources is being strengthened from day to day. If we want to preserve our climate and favourable living conditions as a society, the future of energy generation in renewable energy sources is. We are aware of the importance of promoting renewable energy sources and of moving to a carbon-free society as soon as possible, so we will not oppose the proposed legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u291	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Boštjan Koražija, who will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u292	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. The Law on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Energy Sources, which we are considering today, is a relatively technical law that exempts the use of renewable energy currently regulated by the Energy Act from this law and regulates it separately. As already European directives regulating the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources are similar, the law cannot be very broad. Nevertheless, the proposal could be better. We must be aware that, in addition to the climate crisis, we are also in a crisis of the biosphere where we are faced with the extinction of species as large as the planet has not seen for many years and centuries. We must urgently reduce greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible and achieve carbon neutrality in order to avoid the worst consequences of global warming. We cannot leave fossil fuels in a way that further decimated natural habitats and species. The transition to a carbon-free society must be fair. The maximum costs of this transition must be borne by those who are primarily guilty of climate change, and that is capital. To the extent possible, however, the transition should burden the poorer or weakest people in our society. A society that has spent all the resources it can use to sustain life on this planet in the first four months will have to give up on many. And above all, many will have to give up those who already have too many things today, not those who are barely living today. Only in this case will we be able to talk about climate justice. The bill allows certain parts of the economy to pay lower contributions to renewable energy sources than others. In particular, these are energy-intensive companies that are already receiving huge discharges. Their low prices are then covered by the physical users, with, of course, the poorest members of our society making the biggest contribution. The competitiveness of the economy is an eternal argument for granting such and other benefits to the industry, which can achieve its profitability only by transferring the costs of its production to people and the environment. In this particular case, to even exempt the contribution to renewable resources paid not only by economic operators but also by natural persons, for example for the purchase of fuel and households, for example in the payment of electricity. The contribution to renewable resources has been introduced and is needed in order to enable the country to increase the production capacity of renewable resources by means of such pooled resources, which is essential if we are to abandon the use of fossil fuels and prevent the worst effects of climate change. The path to sustainable energy is a path for society as a whole, so it is not fair for industry and the energy intensive industry to pay lower contributions to renewable energy sources than households and other consumers do. The rating of companies in Slovenia is a service of bears because they do not motivate them to restructure. That we do not have policies in Slovenia in such a way as to discourage the energy intensive industry, there is also a worrying trend, which shows that production in the most energy-intensive industry continues to grow. This also increases energy consumption. Even though the ratings of legal persons are repeatedly proven to be ineffective, as well as an example of the contribution rate of employers to pensions, which is supposed to be temporary and to help improve competitiveness, it has contributed to the increase in the profits of owners. In Levica, we believe that areas intended for food and feed production should not be used for the production of biofuels, especially in Slovenia, which is extremely poorly self-sustained. In addition, the energy efficiency of these fuels is relatively poor, while these fuels from a greenhouse gas perspective are proven to be lower than fossil fuels. Fossil fuels in transport are not a problem because they are non-renewable, but because they are one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia. The replacement of a non-renewable source of energy with a renewable energy source, without reducing or even increasing greenhouse gas emissions, is unacceptable. We will not support or oppose the proposals of the law, because of all the proposals listed in the Levica, but will abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u294	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The area of renewable energy is currently regulated by the Energy Act, which is too extensive and opaque to adapt to the many amendments to large-scale European Union legislation. Therefore, a decision has already been taken to establish six separate laws in the field of energy, which will already or will legally regulate individual energy areas in accordance with European Union legislation. The proposal for a law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources largely summarises and builds on existing legal solutions in the field of renewable energy sources with the requirements of the European acquis. The basic objective of the bill is to increase the use of renewable energy sources in the production of all kinds of energy, including fuel fuels, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions, harmonising national legislation with the requirements of the European Union Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and modernising the system for promoting the use of renewable energy sources. In addition, the objectives of the proposal are: to renovate the system of support for renewable energy use and to extend it to other types of energy as well; to regulate in more detail joint renewable energy projects with other Member States as well as with third countries; to regulate self-sustainment of electricity from renewable sources in more detail; to regulate communities in the field of renewable energy production; to train planters; to achieve certain administrative simplifications and to establish a single point of contact for renewable energy generation projects; to integrate renewable energy into heating and cooling; and to establish stricter requirements for motor fuels in transport. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we advocate the view that the construction of new energy facilities should be based exclusively on renewable sources and actively implement measures to reduce energy consumption, particularly those from non-renewable sources. We will follow the objective of sufficient self-sustainment at the expense of renewable energy sources and encourage the necessary private investment in small production capacities of electricity and a friendly business environment for green and sustainable investment investors, such as windmills, solar power plants, small hydropower plants and so on. However, in the area of energy reform, it is necessary to establish a well-functioning support environment, which includes tax reliefs, in particular for the introduction of vehicles that reduce the use of fossil fuels, for vehicles with alternative propulsion sources and, of course, the production of electricity from renewable energy sources. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by the law on promoting the use of renewable energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u295	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u296	Say good-bye again! Within this agenda item, we are deciding on a proposal for a law to promote the use of renewable energy sources. Its main objective is to focus on stimulating the use of renewable energy in production, and thus on reducing the environmental pressure of industry on the environment, particularly the law. It also brings into our legal order certain provisions within the framework of the Directive of the European Union which specify more precisely the system for promoting the use of renewable energy sources. The proposal provides, inter alia, basic conditions for the establishment of joint inter-state renewable electricity generation projects and, in accordance with that Directive, mention is also made of the system of self-sustainment of electricity to be obtained from renewable sources. The proposal also simplifies certain administrative procedures and thus creates conditions for the creation of a renewable energy community. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that we have an exceptional environmental potential in our country, but we are not yet using it to the desired extent. We believe that, in order to be more efficient in the field of electricity generation from renewable sources, it is necessary to first establish a system that will enable producers to connect and help them achieve economic stability, so we welcome the proposal for a law providing for the purchase of electricity from smaller production units, as well as various forms of financial assistance for renewable-based unit owners. We must ensure that renewable electricity producers are adequately motivated by such a method of production. The document before us provides, in our view, an appropriate basis for increasing the share of energy production from renewable sources. We believe in a green future, based on the ecologically responsible behaviour of the economy and other segments of society, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. We are also of the opinion that the matter of renewable energy, which has been regulated by the Energy Act so far, must have its own legal framework because of its importance for society and its rapidly changing content. This will be easier to update in line with global examples and guidelines on the use of renewable energy sources. The laws of modern countries are increasingly being written along the path of stimulating environmentally responsible behaviour, but such a well-written law alone will not provide a cleaner environment, as environmental concerns begin with us. This is why we also understand the bill as a piece in the mosaic of efforts that motivates people not to exert greater pressure on the environment by carrying out their daily activities. We believe that the challenging goals we have set ourselves in the field of the environment can only be achieved together. On the basis of these facts, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u297	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. It will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. At the end of the day, that's a second-hand proposal for a law amending the law on military duty. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and first-signed Mr Miho Kordiš. The bill is proposed at the 14th session of the 17th. 6. 2021 treated the Defence Committee as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The first is Mr Franc Jurša, who will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u298	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting also to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence and colleagues and colleagues! 30 years ago, we joined citizens and citizens together and gained independence during the 10-day war. Today, Slovenia is not militarily threatened and we have friendly relations with all neighbours. Our representatives of the Slovenian Army are welcome and respected practically everywhere. Since Slovenia is an extremely small country, it is important that we connect and cooperate with the stronger, and despite the small number of people, we can be proud of our achievements. In addition to athletes who make an important contribution to the visibility of our country, soldiers and soldiers are highly valued and highly rated in the conduct of military activities as well as in various foreign competitions. The skills of our special units can be compared to those of greatness, so our military presence abroad is welcome. The knowledge our members have can then be passed on to other countries that are still laying their democratic foundations as part of their activities within the Union. There is no mandatory service of military service in Slovenia. Much has been done in recent years for human resources reinforcements in the Slovenian Armed Forces, but the Slovenian Army is still understaffed. But this is not yet the reason for such a change as has been proposed. We also need soldiers in peace. The Slovenian army also responds actively in times of natural disasters. Fortunately, we have not yet had an event in Slovenia that should activate a larger number of soldiers to save the population, and their readiness can be seen in the case of a glomerdon in 2014. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that every citizen is still aware of the obligations of the military bond and the opportunities he has for employment in the Slovenian Army at full age. Last but not least, it is a day of familiarity with military duty almost a holiday. For military recruits, the choice for military service at times was a sort of social event. Although today is a completely different time, it is right that young people are aware of their rights and responsibilities as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u299	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jurij Lepi, who will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with a coworker, colleagues and colleagues, everyone a good evening! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we do not favour the amendment to the Law on Military Duty, which completely abolishes the exercise of military duty in peace. The Left Group tabled this amendment on the same day as it was envisaged that the Government would table its amendment to the Military Duty Act, which, contrary to the proposal by the Left, would allow the reintroduction of military duty even if the security environment deteriorated dramatically. We believe that such complex changes, as was done in the transition to the professional completion of the Slovenian Armed Forces, should be based on a detailed analysis of the current situation and also on a detailed study of the consequences of the change in the system of implementation of military duty. Neither the proposal of the Left nor the government proposal contain this. The debate on changing the system of implementation of military duty needs to be made aware that it is complex social processes with multiple risks, as this is not only a matter of military organisation but also has important consequences for the economy, education, and last but not least for everyday life and family. Changing the way the army is complemented requires the full, accurate and coordinated planning and operation of all state and social actors. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that this is such an important issue that it should be decided by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority and not by the ordinary majority as currently envisaged. We are convinced that the proposals that are going towards reintroducing the recruitment system do not follow the current needs. In today's modern world, at a time when we're talking about hybrid threats, cyber threats, and other new forms of war, it seems to us to be building a system of armed people that is completely flawed and rather reckless. If anyone thinks that recruits will be able to complete a professional soldier's gap, he's wrong. In fact, recruiters are not intended to carry out combat tasks or to be sent to missions, but can only be a complementary element in the event of emergency situations in the event of war. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we therefore propose that we return to the beginning of this topic, to the question of what is Slovenia's greatest threat. According to our assessment and assessment of the professions, cyber attacks and organised crime are the first place among the threats, followed by threats of radicalisation in society, but none of these threats can be adequately addressed by the recruitment army. We therefore propose that these funds be diverted to the management of cyber and other contemporary threats and to improve the status or social position of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which would make the profession of soldiers significantly more interesting and even more competitive in the labour market. Furthermore, it is recalled that for such a complex project as the introduction of recruitment, at least basic staff, material, infrastructure, logistics, financial and other resources should be provided. But the Defence Minister himself admitted at the last meeting of the Defence Committee that they do not even have accommodation facilities for all the boys and girls who applied for voluntary military service this year, so some will be forced to cancel. To conclude, I would like to point out that changing the way in which the army is complemented will certainly not contribute to greater security for our country and its citizens. According to past experience, recruiters have not contributed to the greater fighting capacity of the Slovenian Army. We must not forget what problems we have had in the past with the health of the generation of recruits, that we are not even talking about finding different excuses to avoid this. At the same time, however, we need to know that military service in Slovenia can already be carried out in several different ways in the current system, namely, first in the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, second in the form of voluntary military service, third in the form of a voluntary contractual reserve, fourth in special circumstances, following the activation of the concept of the military strategic reserve in this structure. As it is said, we do not favour the proposed law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u301	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jani Ivanuša, who will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greeting to all present, especially the representatives of the Ministry of Defence! The draft law amending the Law on Military Duty is clear and simple. In the first article of the law, it is intended to delete part of the text that says that male citizens carry out military duties in peace, so that they can do so only in war after a new one. Yes, the proposal for a law is clear and simple, as is the simple narrowness of the proposer of this law. The motioners are of the opinion that formally abolishing the exercise of military duty in peace would prevent the Government from volunteering into the military. They forget, however, that such manoeuvres require exceptional circumstances, which is of course not of interest to the applicants. The law is supposed to follow the 124th Article of the Constitution, which speaks of peaceful policy. A peaceful policy is certainly desirable, which certainly does not mean that Slovenians must be placed on their own safety because of it. Fighting readiness does not mean anything as evil as they wish to present it to us in a modern rhetoric with which they want to gradually destroy the state's sovereignty. Even in times of peace, it is important for us to have in law a specific duty for men to carry out military duties because we do not want to go to actual war to become threatened. Of course, promoters imagine a rainbow world where there are no wars and no one has the evil interests that they would want to harm anyone. However, until the war comes, many people would have wanted such a world when such a serious situation occurred, and the proponents of such laws would have greatly regretted it. At that time, it would not matter who wants to be in a peaceful world without wars, but only their own safety and survival. They'd forget their fantasy worlds and their rainbow propaganda, because they'd actually feel the primary sense of fear for themselves and their loved ones. At that time, the proponents of such laws would really feel the importance of military readiness even during times of peace and invocations when they are at risk. No one wants war if it happens, but it's good to have some form of insurance if you want, to protect yourself from total fear and chaos. In the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly not support such insulting proposals to our home country just after the 30th anniversary of independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Lenart will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u304	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to the guests from the Ministry! Proposal for a law amending the Law on Military Duty, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordis. As they said, the amendment or amendment to the law under consideration today was a response to the Government's intention to introduce a new Law on Military Duty, which would re-energize military service and thus halt the annual decline in the number of Slovenian armed forces. Thus, according to the quote of Levice, “the Minister of Defence would like to re-energise the compulsory mobilization of military service”. This is what the proponents say in Levica to prevent the government from making the changes that we are considering today. So they wanted to block the plans for the work of this government, this government, which is working fairly, and also the work of this Minister of Defence, which has helped to finally stop the trend of falling numbers of soldiers. The Left would like to block all of this and live alone with its supporters in a fairy tale country without an army and without weapons. We are, of course, rejecting the proposal for a bill amending the Military Duty Act tabled by Levica in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The applicants are of the opinion that it is necessary to eliminate all possibilities for military duty in peace, because according to their Slovenia is not militarily threatened and is in a state where no military threat threatens the country, so serving military duty is inappropriate and is terminated by a proposal for a law and the exercise of military duty in war is maintained. According to our assessment, the proposer has actually fallen into some kind of military panic in all his enthusiasm and is in fact afraid of this government and also of every shadow that resembles a Slovenian soldier. His statements, in our view, are mistaken, for when the proposer believes that, with the proposed amendment to the Military Duty Act, he would prevent the Government from reintroducing a military obligation in peace voluntarily, his fear is indeed too great. The government doesn't even have the authority to do this. The existing Military Duty Act provides that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, may, in the event of an increase in the risk of an attack on the country or in the event of a direct war threat and in the event of a declaration of a state of war or state of emergency in accordance with the law, decide to reintroduce individual or all elements of military duty. As has already been said, the Left is once again a sarcastic and even unlawful amendment of the Military Duty Act, which did not receive support on the first reading by the Defence Committee, which is also not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is not supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. For we must be prepared in peace all the time so that we may be able to defend ourselves against danger tomorrow. Since the proposal did not receive support from the home labour body, the process will end today with this reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u305	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Samo Bevk, who will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u306	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The proposed amendment to the Military Duty Act is a response to the government's attempt to bring law to the legislative process, which would reintroduce compulsory military service, for reasons of extreme deterioration of the security environment. Defence experts have pointed out on a governmental basis that the force of the number of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces will not increase. Moreover, with such maneuvers the Government of the Slovenian Army does not do service, but as one of the Slovenian defence experts has said, there will be only one slap for the Slovenian Army. Let me go back to the content of the proposed amendment to the Military Duty Act, which is a matter of government failure to communicate in another extreme. In the first paragraph of Article 1 of the Law, the word “peaceful” shall be deleted in a work where the article provides that military duty shall be exercised in peace and in war by men citizens under the conditions laid down in that law. We think that the proposaler forgets that it is necessary for a possible but indeed possible exercise of military duty in war to be carried out in peace, including the maintenance of military records. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. They also pointed out chapter VIIa of the Military Duty Act, which already provides for the gradual abandonment of individual elements of military duty in peace and thus in part coincides with the proposaler's purpose. We oppose the proposed amendment to the Military Duty Act by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Boštjan Koražija, who will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u308	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. Good evening, everyone! At the same time as the Constitutional Court's decision prohibiting a 780 million-million-dollar referendum in the middle of the worst health crisis, the Defence Minister announced the reintroduction of compulsory military service. As a supposed reason, he cited the human resources imperfection or malnutrition of the Slovenian Army. He therefore indirectly admitted that the Slovenian Army does not have people using weapons and equipment to spend 780 million taxpayers' money. For years, the Slovenian Army has been leaving the Slovenian Army, and it has been involved. What is the reason why, despite the good pay, fewer and fewer people decide to pursue a career in the military or not continue to do so is unknown to the public. I hope that at least an in-depth analysis has been carried out internally, because if the reasons are not monetary in nature, if employees have increasing ratings, then problems can only be deeper internal nature. The legal solution then is not forcible service to young people, but first the removal of detected internal factors, even though this means a farewell to certain politically indispensable and inviolable personnel. Salaries in the military and defense are among the best in the country. Employees are much better paid than many others in the public sector, so the problem of not being interested in the military profession or the problem of not being interested is not about wages, but they are more of a problem of a variety of bullying. Mobingi, abuse of orders, human resources corruption, these are problems that cause many more people to leave the Slovenian Army every year than to join it. Since this is not a matter of human resources malnutrition and if existing staff were to be given only a little more respect and treated with so-called soft management receptions, many cases successfully recovered, we have proposed in Levica a complete suspension of the exercise of military duty in peace, which was last amended by the Military Duty Act in 2002 when the compulsory service of military service was abolished. This is a record of citizens who are included in all health-sufficient citizens from the age of 17, with a view to determining their ability to carry out military duties and establishing an appropriate schedule in the military in the event of the re-establishment of all elements of military duty. Certainly, the Slovenian public must not forget that the reintroduction of forced military service today or sometimes in the near future is proposed and supported by those political forces that have resold the former social property to foreign capital. We are in the leftist position that this is what kind of military we really need, a matter of broader social consensus and agreement. Earlier, one of the Members had also talked about the rainbow – yes, it would be great if there was peace in the world all the time, because then soldiers would not have to use weapons. If someone were in the army, he would understand that a soldier is not meant to use weapons but to defend them or to use them as few as possible. That's what everyone wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chernigoj is next. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u310	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed choir! A country that wants to maintain its statehood and, as such, to exist, respects its own army and is proud of it, as it represents one of its fundamental builders. In addition to defence security, the military is also concerned with assistance and support in times of crisis, when there are natural disasters and epidemics, which we may have witnessed during the covida-19 epidemic. While the state and its citizens understand the spirit of time and, due to its important role, devote additional resources to the military, on the other hand, the extreme Left submits a novel to the state-level assembly procedure, which seeks to abolish any exercise of military duty in peace. Therefore, after this proposal, military duty would be exercised only in war, but it is not clear when soldiers would be able to qualify for military service in war at all. Apparently, in the opinion of the Left, we could just go straight to the battle lines and learn how to hold a weapon in hand at all. The proposaler thus shows that his purpose is in fact to harm the Slovenian Army and its abolition, and to get Slovenia out of the Euro-Atlantic connection, which ensures security in the international space. In this way, the Levica is reviving citizens, which was clearly expressed in 2003 at the referendum on Slovenia's entry into NATO, where 66% of voters voted for entry. The applicant's remarks that the interest in voluntary service of military service and employment in the Slovenian Army is small do not in any way hold. It is only a matter of approach and in this regard the positive effects of the Ministry of Ministry of Matthew Tonin, Minister of New Slovenia are already reflected. Data on the composition of the Slovenian Army in recent months show that the trend of departure of soldiers from the Slovenian Army has stopped and turned in a positive direction. A number of young people's response to the new concept of volunteer service during summer holidays shows that the military profession is, under appropriate conditions, I repeat, appropriate conditions, still a career that young people are interested in and shows an encouraging future for the Slovenian Army. Left's efforts are not only problematic in terms of state-of-the-art, even more so, for Slovenian state-of-the-art are very harmful. Their scenario is obviously this: first the abolition of the Slovenian Army, then the departure from the North Atlantic Union, the NATO liaison, and not least the decommissioning of their own country. In New Slovenia, we offer a different alternative to the future of Slovenia instead of this harmful thinking. We Christian Democrats are therefore restoring the dignity of the Slovenian Army and becoming it the place it belongs to in Slovenian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u311	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u312	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone! We have before us a decision on the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Military Duty, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by the Group of Members of the Left. The central purpose of this novel is the complete abolition of the exercise of military duty in peace. I should like to point out in the opening that, according to the motioner, the submission of this proposal by the Defence Committee was primarily a procedural and time-consuming obstacle to the adoption of a possible government novel of the same law and not a presentation of solutions that would be in favour of Slovenian society. However, when we touch the content itself, we will quickly find that the applicant's substantive arguments also do not stand for serious and sober judgment. The proposal to carry out military duty only in war would certainly not have a positive effect on Slovenian society. The operation of the Slovenian Army in peace has proved essential over the past years. Let us remember military assistance, both human resources, organisational and equipment and machinery, in all the natural disasters we have witnessed. The glands, the earthquakes, the floods, not least the covida-19 epidemic. Support for such a proposal as we are considering today is therefore by no means in the strategic interest of our country. We are convinced that it is extremely unwise to give up military resources, which are crucial to the operation in exceptional circumstances in peace. It is, however, necessary to draw attention to another point which the applicant has pointed out in his debate at the Committee on Defence, namely that the reason for submitting this proposal is in fact the opposition to the possible reintroduction of the system of recruitment or compulsory service of military service. Let us point out that in the SMC we are, of course, defending liberal positions and working hard to ensure that the Slovenian Armed Forces remain a professional formation, so we support all the measures and efforts that promote the military profession and voluntarily, that is, the professional service of the military. We are surprised, however, that the party of the Levica opposes compulsory military service. This is based on the principle of egalitarianism, which they advocate so fervently. The compulsory service of military service cannot be avoided regardless of the status of an individual in society. Even with regard to the reports of our country's military threat or unhazardness. It is important to be aware that the security and political situation in the world is unpredictable. We are also aware that Slovenia, with its military capabilities, has virtually no influence on them, so it was already in 2003 that the referendum decided to join NATO. This collective defence system has been professionally recognised as the best possible compromise between the level of security guaranteed and the level of defence costs invested. This decision also coincided in time and conceptually with the decision to freeze compulsory military service, which resulted in the professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Since the candidates in Levica would only preserve this acquisition, i.e. the professional army, and for a long time have been in favour of withdrawing from NATO, while other credible defence and security alternatives have not been offered, Members of the Modern Centre Party have been assessing that this marriage proposal is completely nonconsistence, and of course we do not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u313	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure for the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the service law in the Slovenian military. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Uroš Lampret, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u314	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In this mandate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a series of measures to regulate the situation and further develop the Slovenian Army. Last year, this National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, which dealt with some open issues of service in the contractual reserve composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and, in particular, the status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces after an additional 45 years. Furthermore, on a proposal from the Government, the Act on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army was adopted between 2021 and 2026, which arranged for the modernisation and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces during that period. The concept of a single entry into the Slovenian Army, which began this month on 5 July, was introduced with the deployment of more than 120 volunteers for military service. This set of measures also includes the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian Army Service Act, which is currently on your hands, which aims at: to regulate the issue of working time and rest of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces at the time of their deployment to international operations and missions; to further regulate the conduct of military service and fundamental relations in its implementation, as well as the special rights, obligations and responsibilities of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces during the course of this service; to further regulate the specificities of the legal character arising from the specificity and responsibilities of the military service for which the experience of the completion and operation of the professional army has shown that they are not properly regulated; to increase the interest in employment in the Slovenian military and to ensure the planned retention of personnel and to prevent the reduction of the cadre composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Let me mention only the most important solutions proposed in this law. Unlike general legislation, the required level of education for a fifth-class soldier is regulated for which at least secondary vocational education is required. It is an oversight of the level of education, whereby the soldier can redistribute and increase only within the status of the soldier, that is to say, to the rank of Corporal. The issue of scholarships is further addressed. As a measure to obtain candidates for employment in the Slovenian Army, a legal basis is created for financing the acquisition of secondary vocational or professional education to a candidate who has concluded a contract on voluntary service of military service. Weekly rest in international operations and missions is being re-organized. The amended regulation is necessary, I stress the urgency, due to the high number of complaints and claims made by members for compensation due to unused days of weekly rest in international operations and missions and relevant case law. In order to evaluate the total prohibition arising from the right to strike, military personnel are provided with a salary allowance of 4% of the last average monthly gross salary in the Republic of Slovenia. There is a new definition of the possibility that a member who has been employed in the Slovenian Army for more than 10 years and who has been a tenant for more than three years may apply for the purchase of this apartment if the tenant and the users of this apartment are the only apartment. They define the additional rights of members of the family members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who lost their lives in carrying out the military service, namely the advantage of their children in entering kindergarten and the reimbursement of the costs of kindergarten. It is arranged to allow immediate family members to visit a member who has been injured or injured or ill in an international operation or mission by seriously endangering his life. Transportation to accommodation can also be carried out by military transport and accommodation can also be organised in military facilities. Regarding the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, amendments were tabled to the coalition, which are editorial in nature and also endorsed by the Defence Committee. In addition, we have made extensive additional explanations, explanations and views, which, in our view, adequately explain and respond to the dilemmas and comments put forward by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. Honourable Members of Parliament and Members, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army covers a set of measures to regulate the status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to increase interest in entering the various structures of the Slovenian Armed Forces, from the contractual reserve structure through voluntary military service to the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The measures taken so far in practice already give first results in an increased interest in integrating into various military structures as well as in updating and equipping the Slovenian Armed Forces. With the support of the law before you, you will support efforts to continue its development in the direction of a modern and effective organisation capable of carrying out its tasks, ensuring the country's adequate defence capacity and facing modern security challenges after a long period of life. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u315	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a working mother body and I give the floor to Mr Andre Montenegro, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u316	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Defence Committee is at its 14th session. 6. 2021 As a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Cabinet of Prime Minister, the Office of the President of the Republic and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. Amendments to Articles 1, 6, 8, 10, 15 and 32 of the draft law were tabled within the time limit set for Members of the SDS, NSI and SMC. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister for the Defence of Magi presented the introductory supplementary explanation of the draft law. Matthew Tonin. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army is one of those laws that regulate in more detail the rights and duties of Slovenian soldiers, members and members of the Slovenian Army. Among the key solutions, he pointed out that, unlike general legislation, the required level of education for a fifth-class soldier is governed by minimum secondary vocational education. It is an oversight of the level of education, whereby the soldier can redistribute and increase only within the status, that is to say, to the rank of Corporal. Among the key solutions, the Minister also highlighted the 4% ban on the average gross salary and the provision of adequate rest for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces serving in international operations and missions. The additional law also regulates the issue of scholarships, and it is proposed to shorten the obligation of fellows to enter into a fixed-term contract after school, which must not be shorter than the duration of the scholarship. Novela also regulates the resolution of the housing problem for active and retired members and members of the Slovenian Army. At the same time, it also regulates compulsory supplementary pension insurance and payment of contributions in the absence of work due to injury at work or occupational illness. For the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it provides, inter alia, for the possibility of early retirement without lowering the pension. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. In its opening remarks, Andrea Kurent pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had commented on most of the articles. It further highlighted the inconsistencies in the draft law from a constitutional, systemic and nomological point of view. In the debate, the panellists from the coalition parliamentary groups supported a bill that they thought should have been adopted much earlier. They pointed out that the proposal for a law meant the continuation of the necessary regulatory changes, which would increase the attractiveness of the military profession and consequently improve the staffing structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The opposition MPs were more reserved for the bill. In the debate, they agreed that some of the solutions were indeed intended to improve the status of a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but that they should be placed within the appropriate legislative framework so that the legislative proposal would not become the subject of a decision in the Constitutional Court. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 6, 8, 10, 15 and 32 of the draft law by the SDS, NSI and SMC. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u317	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u318	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good evening to all! The Slovenian army recently celebrated its 30th anniversary of existence and operation on the day of the memorial, when the first generation of Slovenian military recruits were adopted at the then learning centres of the territorial defence at Iga and in Pekrah near Maribor. The army has undergone many changes over the past 30 years. We've shut down the recruitment system, we've joined Euro-Atlantic connections, we've joined NATO for 24 years, and we've been participating in peacekeeping missions. At the same time, because of austerity measures and lack of visions, the military has been put on the verge of being put on the brink for years in a row on its readiness. If, in recent years, we have cited the lack of resources and soldiers as the reason for such an assessment, today there is much more money for defence. Even a special law on investment in the Slovenian Army has been adopted, and there is also a greater momentum in the acquisition of personnel, as we see an increased interest in voluntary military service and military camps. But no one wants to talk about the key causes of the unenviable situation in which the Slovenian Armed Forces have been in after 30 years, which is a lack of vision and a clear defence policy and a crisis of leadership and command, which is due mainly to negative human resources selection. However, the separate policy simply does not know what to do with the military at all, rather than looking for its further path through a broader consensus. As a result, the army is becoming tired of all the changes and, on the other hand, more and more politicized. So we ask ourselves whether politics will finally be able to find a consensus, what kind of military we want, and where we will develop it. The first step in this direction could already be a novel of the Service Law in the Slovenian Army. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that the introduction of new measures, such as scholarships and assistance in further education, the possibility of renting and buying out work flats, benefits and additional rights for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces' family members, special monetary rewards, the introduction of weekly rest on international operations and missions, the possibility of hiring and buying a salary for the prohibition of strike, the priority medical treatment and the provision of compulsory supplementary pension insurance and payment of contributions in the event of absence of work due to injury at work. Nevertheless, we have already drawn the attention of two substantive issues at the meeting of the Committee on Defence in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. First time. Why has the novel deleted the solution so far to subsidise the work of nursing care for preschool children of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces? And a second time. Why does the bill eliminate the possibility of providing the necessary accommodation by construction or by purchasing protected apartments to provide the former members of the Slovenian Armed Forces? We wondered what alternatives in this area the Government is offering in the proposed amendment to the law. These two changes, in the opinion of our Group, would be in sharp contrast to the purpose or purpose of this novel, namely to stimulate the employment and staffing of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to improve the social position of members of the Slovenian Army and to ensure adequate social security after the end of their career in the Slovenian Army. We have received an explanation by the Government and also a guarantee that instead of the current arrangements for subsidising the work of nursing school children in the novel, additional rights of family members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who lost their lives in carrying out military service, namely, the preference of their children in entering public or private kindergartens and the reimbursement of the costs of public or private kindergartens. The same arrangement applies to police officers now. In addition, we were explained that instead of the current provisions on the provision of the necessary accommodation facilities for the supply of former members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the possibility of buying houses is regulated in the amendment of the law. If we take a closer look, a member of the Slovenian Army, who has been employed for more than 10 years and has been a tenant of an apartment for more than three years, will be given the opportunity to buy this apartment. The proposed solution thus enables the permanent resolution of housing problems, the care of former members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the way in which the military housing fund is gradually updated. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we will, of course, support the well-intentioned solutions and improvements for the position of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which are presented by the proposed amendment to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. At the same time, we draw attention to some of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, which mainly raises the issue of the compatibility of the bill with the constitutional principle of equality, the rule of law and the principle of a free enterprise initiative. By calling on the Government to deal adequately with the open issues, and we expect the law to continue to upgrade and bring it into an appropriate legislative framework, so that despite the good intentions of ending its path in the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u320	Thank you very much again for your word. Nice greetings to everyone here again! The country of Slovenia, our country is based on the military, because we chose independence with it 30 years ago. We have recently celebrated the 30th anniversary of our homeland, which, unfortunately, many people do not appreciate or even understand the importance of independence. The interest in the Slovenian Army has dropped in recent years, which gives us much to know about the mentality of our society itself. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support proposals that will increase the interest in the military. As long as we live in peace, many people feel naive that we do not need an army, as some do, that we do not need or need so - called insurance until there is a situation where we would regret it. Patriotism is one of the main reasons men want to join the defense forces of the country. There are good suggestions in marriage to make the army more attractive and popular. Economic reasons play an important role in choosing a military profession, but it is still patriotism and the mentality of people that will make the military more important to men and turn them away from a modern agenda that weakens all Europe. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the law that will address the problem of rest in international operations and also further address the work problem of the military profession. At the same time, we want the spirit of patriotism in our country to increase, as modern globalist flows force us into decadence and ruin. That a man is proud of his homeland, that he is aware of his past and the military’s extraordinary importance in times of crisis, will stimulate his interest in the army more than anything else. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we are absolutely opposed to the degenerative idea that the rights of the same-sex partner community of members will also be regulated in a new way in such an important organisation as the military. We say the army is the army. Are we going to pay for the LGBT agenda here, which is already destroying our society and our children, and now we're going to put it in the army? On missions, a soldier’s wife or girlfriend does not have anything to look for, and now we want to compare the same sexual relationship with each other, as far as the soldier’s foreign residence is concerned. So where did we come from? We strongly oppose such proposals in the Slovenian National Party. As has already been said, we have supported the law on the home working committee, but we are withdrawing our support in plenary. Thank you so much and good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u321	Thank you very much, and good night to you. The following is Mr Jožef Lenart, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u322	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army are prepared to regulate the working time and rest of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces during deployment to international operations and missions, to increase interest in employment in the Slovenian Army by improving the conditions, and to harmonise the law with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. In other words, the aim of this government is to achieve its objectives in order to increase its interest in military service, motivate any new members and, of course, strengthen the Slovenian Army. The main solutions to the law or amendments are: from three to five years, the time will be extended when the required level of education for the fifth-year military is to be increased to a direct higher level, with the aim of facilitating career paths and fair progress; otherwise, the required level of education for the fifth-graduate soldier, for whom a minimum of secondary vocational training is required, is proposed to reduce the obligations of the fellows after completion of their studies when they have been enrolled by the Ministry of Defence, the contract of employment in the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army is to be concluded for a certain period of time, which must not be shorter than the duration of the scholarship. There is also a reduction in the time when the scholarshiper must remain in service in the Slovenian Army reserve after the end of the scholarship. As a measure to obtain candidates for employment in the Slovenian Army, a legal basis has also been created for financing the acquisition of secondary vocational or professional education to a candidate who has concluded a contract on voluntary service of military service. Exceptionally and restrictively, the possibility of creating a multiple name for certain formational duties has been introduced, which has so far only been applied to specialist works or tasks. Then there is a change in the regulation of the right to rest in international operations and missions, which provides for a concentrated use of weekly rest and full exclusion of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the working environment in international operations and missions. This will allow for continuous 24-hour rest and adequate regeneration of members of the Slovenian Army on missions. In cases where it is not possible to provide weekly rest at international operations and missions for operational reasons or the nature of the work, a new member will be entitled to one day of special leave during the seven consecutive days. We have also made some good proposals in the Slovenian Democratic Party or in the parliamentary group, which are now included in these amendments to the law and in this law, and we are pleased that the Government is taking a vision of the development of the Slovenian Army, that it does not give up and is successful in turning the long-standing negative trends in the Slovenian Army for the better. The proposal is good, so we support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. It is known that we also support the Slovenian Army all the time. All stakeholders who are concerned that Slovenians can sleep peacefully, thank you. Thank you very much to every soldier and soldier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved will be next in line to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u324	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The Slovenian army enjoys a constant reputation and respect among people, which shows that we have managed to build a robust enough system, a sufficiently robust system that is not subject to the successive change of power and is maintaining its fundamental mission of the State's security pillar. The current government, through Defence Minister Tonin, has been constantly trying to impose on the public and the military the impression that we are in opposition to the Slovenian Army, that who is not for armoured personnel is against the military, and who is against the military is against this country. Such a clear thesis is carried out by the ruling SDS and NSIs, who want to adopt some sort of patronage over the defence system. The facts speak differently. While the Defence Minister, with his tanks and bombers, wants to convince him that it was precisely he who introduced the sudden trend of the downsizing state of the army, this happened mainly in 2019 and 2020, also because the government of Marjana Sarca gradually, but emotionally enough, raised the defence budget, arranged for the award of military personnel in the conclusion or extension of contracts for a certain period of time, which directly concerned 3,000 soldiers, arranged for the payment of the supplement for an increased amount of work, began to resolve the situation of soldiers after 45 years of age, she predicted money for the purchase of personal equipment for soldiers. Therefore, if this government had followed the previous one in gradually raising the military budget, in practice sufficient money would have been needed for investments, including for transport aircraft, helicopters, anti-aircraft and anti-aircraft systems, protective equipment for soldiers and technology, useful in the event of natural disasters. A lot of this will run out if it's 400 million dollars for unnecessary armor. Of course, it is essential to arrange working hours and rest for soldiers on missions. In fact, lawsuits cost the country too much. It is essential to regulate the recognition of education, the obligations of fellows and reservists, compensation for the prohibition of strike, the rental of housing, the rights of relatives at the time of the death of a soldier, and many of these issues are related to the status which this law seeks to regulate. But not in this way, not in the way that in regulating the status of the Slovenian soldier, which is necessary because of the employees in the military and because of the greater interest in the profession of the soldier, the defence minister brings to Parliament a law that makes the legal profession clear to him everything he was able to see. The law runs counter to a whole set of articles of the Constitution, in conflict with labour law and the public sector wage system. In short, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service goes beyond the scope of the legal material itself. What is particularly in the eyes, but this is now a stable way of working for this government, is that all well-intentioned warnings about how to correct the law, so that at least roughly in line with the rule of law, this government simply ignores. The effect may therefore be exactly the opposite of the purpose. The good aim of regulating the status of soldiers and making the military profession more attractive may be to mislead them because of the vehement insistence of the defence minister on disputed solutions in this law. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we have already advised the drafters of the law on the committee to bring the law into order for God's sake if they want to do well for those who are destined for it, which is to the Slovenian soldiers.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u325	Thank you very much. He gets the word again, Mr Samo Bevk, will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u326	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the party of the Social Democrats, we see an army as one foundation of statehood, not only an army, but also a strong social state, public and all available health care, a clear division of power, or not least our relationship to the rule of law. Social Democrats also feel obliged to address this important topic, because we are aware of and recognize the problems in the Slovenian Army, even because we have led and tried to solve this problem. At the time of our last management of the Defence Department in the 2014–2018 mandate, solutions were also prepared at the Ministry for the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, but it was not possible to deal with it in the Government and in the National Assembly, unfortunately, because the procedure was preceded by an early election. The proposed amendments to the law will not be opposed by the Social Democrats. Our assessment is that individual solutions go in the right direction. Here we think mainly of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, who, in addition to training to carry out military tasks, in every case of natural and other disasters, always jump unselfishly to help save people and their property. However, we will again draw attention to the two provisions of the proposed amendment to the law, Article 19, which complements Article 68 of the current law governing the acquisition of the insurance period. The proposed addition shall govern the status of a military person after the termination of the duties of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. This is therefore the highest military formational duty that a military person can occupy, and it also represents the top of the military career path. We do not see any argument by the Social Democrats that, in view of the military hierarchy, it would not be appropriate for a military person to continue to work in the military structure after the cessation of his duties as Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The proposed solution would be to the refugees in our regulation, since no profession or professional group has such a privilege. In addition, there would be duplication of rights as military personnel are considered to be receiving additional financial resources in the pension pillar, which also allow them to retire under the system of compulsory supplementary pension. We believe that there are already formational jobs within the military organisation to which former chiefs could be deployed, thus making use of their rich knowledge. The possibility of early retirement without a reduction of pension, as provided for in Article 38 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, would otherwise be possible if there were no possibility of transferring such a person to appropriate work at the Ministry or in another State body. We are convinced that the former commissioners can be properly redeployed within the Slovenian Army, the Ministry or other state bodies. We would also like to draw attention to Article 28 of the amendment, which is a new article 89a, where additional rights are introduced for an unemployed spouse. We believe that it would not be fair for spouses of other public servants who accompany partners abroad to have this privilege only members of the Slovenian Army. Such arrangements should apply to all partners of public servants abroad. As I have already mentioned, the proposed solutions in the amendment to the Service Law in the Slovenian Army are going towards the resolution of some of the situations in the Slovenian Army, so the Social Democrats will not oppose the proposed amendment of the law, despite some concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u327	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Andrej Černigoj, who will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u328	Madam Vice-President, thank you for your input, for the third time. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed choir! The Service Act of the Slovenian Army, which was adopted in 2007, achieved positive effects in the initial phase in the acquisition, award and retention of personnel. As a result of the financial crisis and financial constraints in the defence sector, the positive effects of the law on remuneration, the acquisition of personnel after 2010 have virtually been eliminated. The number of members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces began to decrease and it was no longer possible to ensure the planned extent of completion of the permanent composition. Between 2007 and the end of 2020, the number of permanent members decreased by 686 members and members. We want to make the profession of Slovenian Armed Forces more attractive to every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia by law on service in the Slovenian Army. We therefore propose short-term obligations for scholarships to conclude for a certain period of time, which may not be shorter than the duration of the scholarship, after the completion of their studies instead of twice the duration of the scholarship. There is also a reduction in the time when the scholarshiper must remain in service in the Slovenian Army reserve after the end of the scholarship. An important novelty is the change in the regulation of the right to rest in international operations and missions, followed by MOM, which envisages the concentrated use of weekly rest and the full exclusion of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the other working environment in MOM, allowing for continuous 24-hour rest and adequate regeneration of members. Where, for operational reasons or the nature of the work, it is not possible to provide weekly rest in MOM, a special leave institution shall be introduced, after which a member will be entitled to one day of special leave within seven consecutive days, a special leave shall be used in MOM following a decision of the supervisor and in accordance with the needs of the service. If this is not possible, the member will benefit from the leave immediately after arrival with the MOM or no later than two months after returning home. Additional rights of family members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who have lost their lives in carrying out military service are also provided for, namely, their children's advantage in entering kindergarten and reimbursement of the costs of kindergarten. Serving in the Slovenian Army is patriotic and specific. The prohibition of strike is clearly set out in the Defence Act and therefore a salary allowance of 4 % is provided for military personnel. With the acquisition of the Ministry of Defence, New Slovenia has turned the trend of the Slovenian Armed Forces upwards, as the difference between the number of departures and the number of arrivals to the Slovenian Army has decreased significantly. We have restored dignity to members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, where systematic measures have been taken to allow the extension of the contract for the employment of soldiers in the Slovenian Army on certain forms of duty even after the 45th year and the possibility of employment following the expiry of the contract in the Slovenian Army in other national authorities under significantly more favourable conditions. This law has also taken measures to improve the performance of the contract reserve composition of the Slovenian Army. For the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats is an important part of Slovenian society, so we will unanimously support the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. Thank you for your attention and a nice evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u329	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Monika Gregorčič, who will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u330	Good evening, everyone! We have before us a proposal for a government novel of the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, which regulates some relations in the military organisation in order to enable the reformed system to function more effectively and to motivate its members more effectively. The proposal for a law thus deals, inter alia, with the issue of scholarship and funding for education to a candidate who enters into a voluntary service contract for military service. At the same time, the marriage proposal regulates compulsory supplementary pension insurance and payment of contributions also in the absence of work due to injury at work or occupational illness. Where soldiers are on duty on international military missions, a new system of daily and weekly rest is introduced. The change of the existing system is necessary as the regime currently in force does not allow soldiers to spend their days off. For the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, among other things, provision is made for early retirement without a reduction in pension. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we support this amendment of the law and recognize it as a continuation of the necessary regulatory changes that will enable the Slovenian Army to strengthen its personnel. The proposal for this law is understood as a deliberate start to efforts to strengthen the attractiveness of the military profession. We are committed to actions and activities that will preserve or further increase the attractiveness of voluntary service of the military and thus the professionalization of the Slovenian Army. Its structure must be reliable and systems within its units effective. The importance of such an army is vital to the country, at any time, irrespective of the situation in which the country is located. As we say, Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal for this marriage novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u331	Thank you very much. As the last position of the Desus Group will be presented today by Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u332	Thanks again for saying that. Nice greetings to those who are still in the hall! The Slovenian army has been facing a shortage of personnel for years. Over the years they have tried in various ways to bring the profession of soldiers closer to young people by starting student and student camps years ago, which have allowed young people to experience what it is like to be a soldier of the Slovenian Army. Responses were excellent, and many young people in this way carried out compulsory practices, but there are also many individuals who wanted to test physical and mental readiness. Additional motivation over the years were also monetary awards, housing opportunities, promotion, scholarships and more. However, the profession of Slovenian Army soldiers was lost on popularity. As a sovereign state, we must be able to protect our citizens and our interests, and we need an army. However, this is not only true in times of aggression, Slovenian soldiers are also active in times of natural disasters, where they help in various ways through their techniques and with their knowledge. Let us remember the 2014 acorns. Even in the event of rescue in the mountains is an engagement team of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which, together with the mountain rescue service, saves lives in the most difficult areas of the Slovenian mountains. Emergency transport of patients to hospitals and transport of newborns is also not foreign to our helicopter units. The Slovenian army is thus an indispensable part in life-saving and disaster relief. For this reason, we must not allow ourselves to leave the Slovenian Army undernourished. Such incentives for new employees and already active members are the least we can do. The award for the long-term contract is indeed an exception to other professions, but we must be aware that the knowledge that the soldier receives in the military is difficult to exploit in civilian life. A legally defined prize would thus further encourage individuals to choose a soldier’s profession. Managing scholarships is also more attractive for young people. Twice the time of service of the military as a grant may be too long for many. We must not forget that in most cases it is the young students who opt for a scholarship. In recent years, many articles have been written on how a soldier on his way to work or from his office saved his accomplices in an accident. In doing so, he carried out his basic job of saving lives, so in the Desus Group we support the proposal that the soldier is also protected and protected during the journey. In the Desus Group we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2021-07-12-SDZ8-Redna-24.ana.u333	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill and thank all those involved. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I also interrupt this agenda item and the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Everybody have a nice evening.
